Insight Report

The Global Information
Technology Report 2013
Growth and Jobs in a Hyperconnected World
Beñat Bilbao-Osorio, Soumitra Dutta, and Bruno Lanvin, Editors

Insight Report

The Global Information
Technology Report 2013
Growth and Jobs in a Hyperconnected World

Beñat Bilbao-Osorio, World Economic Forum
Soumitra Dutta, Cornell University
Bruno Lanvin, INSEAD
Editors

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 is a
project within the framework of the World Economic
Forum’s Global Competitiveness and Benchmarking
Network and the Industry Partnership Programme for
Information and Communication Technologies. It is the
result of a collaboration between the World Economic
Forum and INSEAD.
Professor Klaus Schwab
Executive Chairman
Børge Brende
Managing Director, Government Relations
and Constituents Engagement
Robert Greenhill
Managing Director, Chief Business Officer

EDITORS

Beñat Bilbao-Osorio, Associate Director and
Senior Economist, Global Competitiveness and
Benchmarking Network, World Economic Forum
Soumitra Dutta, Dean, Samuel Curtis Johnson
Graduate School of Management, Cornell University
Bruno Lanvin, Executive Director, eLab, INSEAD

GLOBAL COMPETITIVENESS AND BENCHMARKING NETWORK

Jennifer Blanke, Chief Economist, Head
of the Global Competitiveness and
Benchmarking Network
Ciara Browne, Associate Director
Gemma Corrigan, Intern
Roberto Crotti, Quantitative Economist
Margareta Drzeniek Hanouz, Director, Lead
Economist, Head of Competitiveness Research
Thierry Geiger, Associate Director, Economist
Tania Gutknecht, Community Manager
Caroline Ko, Junior Economist
Cecilia Serin, Team Coordinator

World Economic Forum
Geneva
Copyright © 2013
by the World Economic Forum and INSEAD
All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be
reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted,
in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical,
photocopying, or otherwise without the prior permission of
the World Economic Forum.
ISBN-10: 92-95044-77-0
ISBN-13: 978-92-95044-77-7
This report is printed on paper suitable for recycling and
made from fully managed and sustained forest sources.
Printed and bound in Switzerland by SRO-Kundig.
Visit The Global Information Technology Report page at
www.weforum.org/gitr.

We thank Hope Steele for her excellent editing work and
Neil Weinberg for his superb graphic design and layout.
The terms country and nation as used in this report do
not in all cases refer to a territorial entity that is a state
as understood by international law and practice. The
terms cover well-defined, geographically self-contained
economic areas that may not be states but for which
statistical data are maintained on a separate and
independent basis.

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS
INDUSTRIES TEAM

Alan Marcus, Senior Director, Head of Information
and Communication Technologies Industries
William Hoffman, Associate Director, Head of
Issue Community
Danil Kerimi, Associate Director, Head of
Government Community
Elena Kvochko, Project Manager, Information
Technology Industry
Derek O’Halloran, Head of Information
Technology Industry
Alexandra Shaw, Team Coordinator, Information
Technology Industry
Bruce Weinelt, Director, Head of
Telecommunication Industry

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Contents

Preface	v
Børge Brende and Robert Greenhill (World Economic Forum)

Foreword	vii

1.6 The Economic Impact of Next-Generation 	
Mobile Services: How 3G Connections and
the Use of Mobile Data Impact GDP Growth	

77

Chris Williams, Davide Strusani, David Vincent, and
David Kovo (Deloitte LLP)

Cesare Mainardi (Booz & Company)

Foreword	ix

1.7 Better Measurements for Realizing the 	
Full Potential of Health Information Technologies	

John Chambers (Cisco Systems)

Elettra Ronchi (OECD), Julia Adler-Milstein and Genna R.

81

Cohen (University of Michigan), and Laura P. Winn and

Executive Summary	

xi

Ashish K. Jha (Harvard School of Public Health)

Beñat Bilbao-Osorio (World Economic Forum), Soumitra
Dutta (Cornell University), and Bruno Lanvin (INSEAD)

The Networked Readiness Index Rankings	

xxi

1.8 Re-Establishing the European Union’s 	
Competitiveness with the Next Wave of
Investment in Telecommunications	

93

Scott Beardsley, Luis Enriquez, Wim Torfs, Ferry
Grijpink, Stagg Newman, Sergio Sandoval, and Malin
Strandell-Jansson (McKinsey & Company)

Part 1: The Current Networked Readiness
for Growth and Jobs

1.9 The Big Opportunity for Inclusive Growth	

101

Mikael Hagström and Ian Manocha (SAS Institute Inc.)

1.1 The Networked Readiness Index 2013: 	
Benchmarking ICT Uptake and Support for
Growth and Jobs in a Hyperconnected
World	

3	

Part 2: Case Studies of Leveraging ICTs
for Competitiveness and Well-Being

Beñat Bilbao-Osorio (World Economic Forum),
Soumitra Dutta (Cornell University), Thierry Geiger

2.1 Colombia’s Digital Agenda: Successes 	
and the Challenges Ahead	

(World Economic Forum), and Bruno Lanvin (INSEAD)

1.2 Digitization for Economic Growth and 	
Job Creation	

35

111

Diego Molano Vega (Ministry of Information
and Communication Technologies of Colombia)

Karim Sabbagh, Roman Friedrich, Bahjat El-Darwiche,

2.2 The Metamorphosis to a Knowledge-Based 	
Society: Rwanda	

Milind Singh, and Alex Koster (Booz & Company)

1.3 Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies: 	
A Taxonomy of National Broadband and
ICT Plans	

43

119

Alex Ntale (Rwanda ICT Chamber and Private Sector
Federation), Atsushi Yamanaka (Rwanda Development
Board-ICT/Japan International Cooperation Agency), and
Didier Nkurikiyimfura (Ministry of Youth and ICT of Rwanda)

Robert Pepper and John Garrity (Cisco Systems)

1.4 The Importance of National Policy Leadership	

53

Phillippa Biggs and Anna Polomska (ITU/UNESCO
Broadband Commission for Digital Development)

2.3 E-Government in Latin America: A Review 	
of the Success in Colombia, Uruguay, and
Panama	

127

Miguel A. Porrúa (Organization of American States)

1.5 Fiber Broadband: A Foundation for Social 	
and Economic Growth	

67

Sean Williams (BT)

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | iii

Contents

Part 3: Country/Economy Profiles
How to Read the Country/Economy Profiles.................................139
Index of Countries/Economies.......................................................141
Country/Economy Profiles.............................................................142

Part 4: Data Tables
How to Read the Data Tables........................................................289
Index of Data Tables......................................................................291
Data Tables...................................................................................293

Technical Notes and Sources	

361

About the Authors	

367

List of Partner Institutes	

375

Acknowledgments	383

iv | The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Preface
BØRGE BRENDE AND ROBERT GREENHILL

World Economic Forum

The 12th edition of The Global Information Technology
Report (GITR) is being released at a time of cautious
optimism after a long period of economic uncertainty
that has transformed the global economic outlook. While
uncertainty in the euro zone and the risk of political
deadlock in the United States still persist and could derail
the tentative economic recovery in developed economies,
the risk of a financial and economic meltdown with
unprecedented consequences seems more remote than it
did a year ago. Overall, developed economies are striving
to return to higher levels of competitiveness while fighting
the stubbornly high levels of unemployment, especially
among youth; at the same time, developing and emerging
economies are focusing on innovation as a prerequisite
to sustain the high economic growth rates they have
experienced in the past decade and leapfrog toward
higher levels of economic and social prosperity.
Against this backdrop, the role that information
and communication technologies (ICTs) can play to
support economic growth and the creation of highquality jobs has never drawn so much attention and
research. There had been some initial concerns about
the risk, in some developed economies, that ICTs
could accelerate the delocalization of certain economic
activities toward developing countries. But the benefits
of ICTs are now widely recognized everywhere as an
important source of efficiency gains for companies that
will allow them to optimize their production function and
liberalize resources toward other productive investments.
Moreover, ICTs are also increasingly recognized as a
key source of innovation that can generate increased
economic growth and new sources of high-value-added
jobs. This ability to innovate is essential in the current
information revolution that is transforming economic and
social transactions in our societies.
The GITR series has been published by the World
Economic Forum in partnership with INSEAD since
2002. The Report has accompanied and monitored
ICT advances over the last decade as well as raising
awareness of the importance of ICT diffusion and
usage for long-term competitiveness and societal
well-being. Through the lens of the Networked
Readiness Index (NRI), the driving factors and impacts
of networked readiness and ICT leveraging have been
identified, highlighting the joint responsibility of all social

actors—individuals, businesses, and governments.
Over time, the series has become one of the mostrespected studies of its kind. It is extensively used by
policymakers and relevant stakeholders as a unique tool
to identify strengths on which to build and weaknesses
that need to be addressed by national strategies for
enhanced networked readiness.
The Global Information Technology Report 2013
features the latest results of the NRI, offering an overview
of the current state of ICT readiness in the world. This
year’s coverage includes a record number of 144
economies, accounting for over 98 percent of global
GDP. A number of essays on the role of ICTs to promote
growth and jobs in an increasingly hyperconnected
world, as well as policy case studies on developing
ICTs, are featured in the Report, together with a
comprehensive data section—including detailed profiles
for each economy covered and data tables with global
rankings for the NRI’s 54 indicators.
We would like to convey our sincere gratitude to the
industry and international organizations’ experts who
contributed outstanding chapters exploring the links
between ICTs and economic growth and job creation,
as well as to policy analysts for providing their valuable
insights in the policy case studies.
We especially wish to thank the editors of the
Report, Soumitra Dutta at the Samuel Curtis Johnson
Graduate School of Management at Cornell University,
Bruno Lanvin at INSEAD, and Beñat Bilbao-Osorio
at the World Economic Forum, for their leadership in
this project, together with the other members of the
GITR team: Thierry Geiger, Danil Kerimi, and Elena
Kvochko. Appreciation also goes to Alan Marcus,
Senior Director and Head of the Information Technology
and Communication Industries team, and Jennifer
Blanke, Chief Economist and Head of the Global
Competitiveness and Benchmarking Network, as well
as her team: Ciara Browne, Gemma Corrigan, Roberto
Crotti, Margareta Drzeniek Hanouz, Tania Gutknecht,
Caroline Ko, and Cecilia Serin. Last but not least, we
would like to express our gratitude to our network of
167 Partner Institutes around the world and to all the
business executives who participated in our Executive
Opinion Survey. Without their valuable input, the
production of this Report would not have been possible.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | v

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Foreword
CESARE MAINARDI

Chief Executive Officer, Booz & Company

Ever since Adam Smith first proposed the theory of
absolute advantage enjoyed by a country in producing
a good or service, policymakers have sought to build
and maintain such an advantage in key sectors of their
economies. What has become increasingly clear over
the past 12 years that the World Economic Forum and
INSEAD have been publishing this Global Information
Technology Report is the role that information
communication technologies (ICTs), and specifically
digitization, plays in the potential development and
maintenance of absolute advantage.
Digitization—the mass adoption of connected digital
services by consumers, enterprises, and governments—
is far more than a disruptive wave washing over isolated
industries. We have long since recognized that reality.
Digitization is a fundamental driver of economic growth
and job creation the world over—in both developed and
emerging markets. And that is not hollow rhetoric—it
is confirmed by econometric analysis that Booz &
Company has conducted to quantify the actual impact
of digitization on a country’s economic output (GDP)
and employment. In fact, we have created a Digitization
Index that scores a country’s digitization level on a scale
of 0 to 100. This level-setter allows us to go beyond the
anecdotal evidence of the transformational impact of
ICTs and actually measure that impact on economic and
social factors on a comparative basis.
The headline is powerful: despite the continued
sluggishness of economies across the globe, digitization
boosted world economic output by nearly US$200
billion and created 6 million jobs in 2011. Specifically,
our analysis reveals that an increase of 10 percent in a
country’s digitization score drives a 0.75 percent growth
in its GDP per capita. That same 10 percent boost in
digitization leads to a 1.02 percent drop in a state’s
unemployment rate. These benefits grow as a country
moves along the digitization continuum—in other words,
increased digitization yields improving returns.
Although the net effect of digitization is positive,
as you begin analyzing the data by country and sector,
certain tradeoffs become apparent. For example,
advanced-stage economies in North America and
Western Europe, for a number of reasons, realize fewer
employment benefits than developing economies as
their digitization level increases. Their productivity

improves; some jobs get replaced by technologies; and
lower-value-added, labor-intensive jobs go overseas
to emerging markets where labor is cheaper. On a
sector-by-sector basis, you see the same effect in
highly digitized industries such as financial services and
manufacturing.
Thus no universal prescriptions are available for
realizing the full socioeconomic benefits of digitization—
the right formula will vary by country and industry. But
there is no question that the benefits are there to be
realized, and they are substantial for the foresighted and
sure-footed.
The lesson for policymakers and national leaders is
clear: having laid the necessary groundwork by building
out broadband infrastructure and ensuring access, it is
now time to differentiate around distinctive opportunities
and capabilities. Governments have a role to play as
digital market makers. That means making deliberate
choices about what sectors furnish the best opportunity
for that absolute advantage Adam Smith described and
focusing on them. It means understanding the tradeoffs
between job creation and productivity that increasing
digitization brings, and creating mechanisms to offset
potential job losses. Finally, it means understanding
what capabilities you must bring as a policymaker to
advancing your country’s digitization agenda. Do you
need to play the role of direct developer, financier, or
facilitator? There are successful models of all three
capability sets in practice today around the world.
You have only to open your eyes and apply the right
capabilities lens to chart the right path forward. This
year’s Global Information Technology Report will
illuminate the way.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | vii

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Foreword
JOHN CHAMBERS

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Cisco Systems

It has been almost 30 years since the connections
that sparked one of the greatest technological
transformations in history were made, creating
an enormous global market for information and
communication technologies (ICTs) while laying the
foundation for networked readiness. Today the Internet
and the applications and the services it supports touch
our lives every day. Just as Cisco was at the forefront
of network development in the past, today we envision
a future where everything is connected and amazing
things are possible.
More than 99 percent of things in the physical
world are not linked to the Internet. Yet. But as the world
transitions into what we call the Internet of Everything
(IoE)—the intelligent connection of people, processes,
data, and things—only the networked readiness of
countries will dictate where the IoE will take hold and
who will reap its benefits. Given the economic and
social potential of this market transition, we are very
pleased to again collaborate with the World Economic
Forum and INSEAD in the production of this year’s
Global Information Technology Report and its Networked
Readiness Index.
The IoE and intelligent networking will impact all
sectors, creating opportunities for people, businesses,
and countries. An intelligent network will be the driver of
the next round of innovation, productivity enhancement,
and employment.
Developing the IoE will require close collaboration
among stakeholders in industry, customers, academia,
and government. Products and services will be
developed commercially, customers will dictate what
succeeds in the market place, academia can aid in
research and design, and governments can play a
role in maintaining a vibrant and competitive business
environment where innovation will flourish.
This year’s Global Information Technology Report,
focusing on ICTs for growth and jobs, places a spotlight
on the role that technology can have in economic
growth and employment. As highlighted in the research
that follows, high-speed broadband networks have
demonstrated a positive impact on short- and long-term
employment, and we believe the next wave of Internet
development will further advance the growth effects of
the network.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | ix

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Executive Summary
BEÑAT BILBAO-OSORIO, World Economic Forum
SOUMITRA DUTTA , Cornell University
BRUNO LANVIN, INSEAD

When The Global Information Technology Report (GITR)
and the Networked Readiness Index (NRI) were created
some 12 years ago, the attention of decision makers
and investors was on adopting business and financial
strategies that would allow them to develop in the
context of a fast-moving but nascent Internet economy.
Over more than a decade, the NRI has provided
decision leaders with a useful conceptual framework to
evaluate the impact of information and communications
technologies (ICTs) at a global level, and to benchmark
the ICT readiness and the usage of their economies.
Today, the world has undergone massive changes:
the Internet bubble has come and gone, and emerging
countries such as China and India have become
prominent global users and providers of ICT equipment
and services. Struggling to emerge from the financial
crisis, developed economies are striving to return to
higher levels of growth and competitiveness while
fighting stubbornly high unemployment rates, especially
among their youth. Both emerging and developed
economies are focusing on innovation, competing
globally for talent, resources, and market shares.
Information flows and networks have spread across
borders in ways that could not be imagined before the
onset of the Internet, the global adoption of mobile
telephony and social networks, and the rapid growth of
broadband. Business models have been redefined, the
workplace has been redesigned, small startups have
evolved into large companies, and entire functions of
society (education, health, security, privacy) are being
rethought.
ICTs, COMPETITIVENESS, GROWTH, AND JOBS: A
COMPLEX RELATIONSHIP
The links between ICTs (their tools, services, and models)
on the one hand and the unwavering importance of
competitiveness, growth, and jobs on the other have
never before been the subject of so much attention and
concern. This is hardly surprising when one considers
the “pull” of technology: developed economies need
to reinvent themselves to maintain or restore their
competitiveness, retain or regain market shares, and
create jobs; emerging and developing economies are
seeking ways to improve productivity and find new
sources of growth through new technologies. Finally,

the world needs to collectively address environmental
and social challenges to ensure a more sustainable
development path and a better quality of life for its
people.
On the “push” side, technological progress
continues at a relentless speed. The growing availability
of technology has empowered citizens of both developed
and emerging economies with fairly good access to the
digital world. The rise of cloud computing has reduced
the competitive differentials in technology availability
across larger and smaller firms. Low entry barriers in the
digital space have sparked creativity and given rise to a
class of young entrepreneurs around the world. It is clear
that ICTs offer higher benefit-to-cost ratios in all sectors
of production, while simultaneously offering new ways to
create value by better and more efficiently organizing the
use of natural, financial, and human resources.
Numerous studies have been presented in the
literature on the connections between ICTs on the
one hand, and development and growth on the other.
Although the first analyses of the economic impact
of fixed telephone density on economic growth were
conducted more than three decades ago,1 such studies
have proliferated in recent years. Despite the ubiquity
of ICTs in society and business, such research has
not been easy. For one thing, the pace of adoption of
many technologies (broadband, mobile, etc.) has been
fast and recent—thus limiting the validity of longitudinal
studies and making it difficult for data collection
agencies to keep pace with the definition and collection
of appropriate metrics. Also, it remains challenging to
isolate the impact of ICTs as their economic impacts
have often occurred when combined with other broad
social and business changes.
For more than a decade, the NRI has included
aspects of how ICTs are transforming the economy
and society. Among the expressions of transformation
is the development of new skills that are important in
knowledge-based, information-rich societies and that
are crucial for employment. Despite the fact that ICTs are
becoming increasingly universal, the question of access
and usage remains important—especially for developing
countries, given their need to narrow the digital divide.
The NRI includes features related to access and usage
that cover not only affordable ICT infrastructure but

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | xi

Executive Summary

also digital resources, including software and skills. In
addition, the NRI includes proxies to assessing some of
the economic and social impacts accruing from ICTs.
Thus, the Index facilitates the identification of areas
where policy intervention—through investment, smart
regulation, and/or incentives—could boost the impact of
ICTs on development and growth.
PART 1: THE CURRENT NETWORKED READINESS
LANDSCAPE
Part 1 presents the latest findings of the NRI, offering
a comprehensive assessment of the present state
of networked readiness in the world. Furthermore, a
number of expert contributions inquiring into the relation
between ICTs and growth and jobs in the current
economic and digital context are also included. These
relate to (1) the role of digitization for economic growth
and job creation; (2) the description of a taxonomy of
national broadband and ICT plans; (3) the importance of
national policy leadership; (4) the role of fiber broadband
for economic and social growth; (5) the economic impact
of next-generation mobile technologies; (6) the need for
better measurement to realize the potential of health
information technologies; (7) the role of ICTs for Europe
to regain its competitiveness, and (8) the potential of ICTs
to support social inclusion.
Insight from the NRI 2013 on the world’s networked
readiness
Given the potential high returns that ICTs can provide
in transforming a nation’s economy and its citizens’
well-being, assessing ICT developments has been the
object of much academic and policy attention in the past
decade. Several organizations have made significant
efforts to measure and benchmark ICT deployment
and uptake, but few have aimed at equally assessing
the returns that ICTs can actually provide to both the
economy and society. Although data availability is
still scarce in terms of ICT impacts, policy interest in
measuring ICTs has shifted from measuring ICT access
to measuring ICT impacts.
Last year, after two years of research and
consultations with ICT practitioners, policy and industry
experts, and academia, a new subindex on ICT impacts
that aimed at holistically assessing the way that
countries go about leveraging ICTs and benefiting from
them in terms of enhanced competitiveness and wellbeing has been introduced in the NRI. This evolution
ensures that the NRI framework remains at the forefront
of ICT measurement. As one of the most authoritative
assessments of its kind, it has been adopted by several
governments as a valuable tool for informing their
competitiveness and policy agendas.
As a result, the framework gauges:

xii | The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013

•	 the friendliness of a country’s market and regulatory
framework in supporting high levels of ICT uptake;
•	 the degree of a society’s preparation to make good
use of an affordable ICT infrastructure;
•	 the efforts of the main social agents—that is,
individuals, business, and government—to increase
their capacity to use ICTs as well as their actual use
of ICTs in day-to-day activities; and
•	 the broad economic and social impacts accruing
from ICTs and the transformation of a country
toward an ICT- and technology-savvy economy
and society.
As in previous editions, the NRI is composed of a
mixture of quantitative data collected by international
organizations—such as International Telecommunication
Union (ITU), other UN agencies, the Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), and
the World Bank—and survey data from the Executive
Opinion Survey (the Survey), conducted annually by
the Forum in each of the economies covered by the
Report. The NRI 2013 covers a record number of 144
economies, accounting for over 98 percent of world GDP.
In terms of the results (see the Networked
Readiness Index Rankings provided on page xix), two
groups of economies dominate the NRI: Northern
European economies and the so-called Asian Tigers.
Among the Northern European countries, four out of the
five Nordic economies featured in the NRI—Finland,
Sweden, Norway, and Denmark (in rank order)—continue
to feature in the top 10. Iceland, the last of the Nordics,
is not too far behind, at 17th place. The performance
of this group in terms of readiness is particularly
outstanding. All five Nordics feature in the top 10 of this
subindex. Within this subindex, on the infrastructure
and digital content pillar, four countries occupy the top
positions. As highlighted in the previous edition and
in this Report, the gap between those countries and
the ones in the Southern and Eastern parts of Europe
is profound. A second group of economies that posts
a remarkable performance are the Asian Tigers:
Singapore, Taiwan (China), the Republic of Korea, and
Hong Kong SAR. All boast outstanding business and
innovation environments that are consistently ranked
among the most conducive in the world. The Tigers also
stand out for their governments’ leadership in promoting
the digital agenda, and the impact of ICTs on society
tends to be larger in these economies.
Finland (1st) reaches the top of the NRI rankings
for the first time, thanks to improvements across the
board. The country shows progress on two-thirds of
the 54 indicators of the NRI and posts a very consistent
performance across all categories of the NRI. Singapore

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Executive Summary

remains 2nd overall, while slightly improving its score.
The extreme efficiency and business friendliness of
its institutional framework, strong intellectual property
protection, intense competition, and high university
enrollment rate lead to these outstanding outcomes.
Sweden (3rd) maintains its score, but declines two
positions and abandons the top spot to Finland. Despite
this slight decline in rankings, the country undeniably
remains one of the few truly knowledge-based
economies of this world.
Up three notches, the United Kingdom (7th)
posts the biggest rank improvement among the top
10 economies. The country offers one of the most
conducive environments for ICT development. In
particular, it offers a sound and conducive political and
regulatory environment (7th). The country also boasts
high levels of ICT adoption. ICTs are pervasive among
the population, businesses, and the government. Down
one, the United States slips to 9th place despite a
performance essentially unchanged from the previous
year. This constitutes the country’s worst showing since
the first edition of the GITR in 2001, in which it ranked
1st, although changes to the methodology and in the
composition of the NRI over time cause the results not to
be strictly comparable. The country still possesses many
strengths, however, which have contributed to making it
the world’s innovation powerhouse for decades.
Several European countries continue to lead
the rankings, showcasing their strong efforts and
commitment to fully develop and leverage ICTs to
boost their competitiveness and the well-being of
their citizens. Within the European Union (EU), while
stark intra-regional disparities persist, it is worth noting
that the divergence across Member States in the
NRI is significantly narrower than it is in the Global
Competitiveness Index,2 the most comprehensive
analysis for measuring the set of policies, institutions,
and factors that drive the productivity of an economy.
This reflects the longstanding efforts of the European
Union to narrow the digital divide in Europe and build
an internal digital market, as corroborated by the launch
of a new Digital Agenda for Europe,3 one of the seven
flagship initiatives of the European Commission’s Europe
2020 Strategy for growth and jobs for the present
decade.
Within the Commonwealth of Independent States,
several countries have fully recognized the potential
of ICTs to leapfrog and diversify their economies, and
important progress has been recorded since last year.
Asia is home to some of the world’s wealthiest,
most successful economies in the world and also to
some of its poorest. Unsurprisingly, a similarly profound
diversity characterizes Asia’s digital landscape, thus
making it impossible to draw a uniform picture of the
region. The most digitized and innovative nations—the

Asian Tigers—on the planet are next to some of the
least-connected ones. Nowhere else does the regional
digital divide run as deeply as it does in Asia. Regardless
of their position on the development ladder, all Asian
economies have much to gain from increased networked
readiness. It will allow populations of the least-advanced
countries to gain access to much-needed basic services,
improved government transparency and efficiency,
and—for the most advanced, many of which suffer from
anemic economic growth—it will contribute to boosting
their innovation capacity. The NRI reveals that in the
case of Asia’s best-performing economies, governments
typically lead the digital effort, unlike in Europe. At the
heart of Asia, and representative of its immense diversity,
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
is fairly dynamic. Led by Singapore, all eight ASEAN
members covered by the NRI improve their overall score
and a majority progress in the rankings, albeit in some
cases—such as Cambodia and the Philippines—from a
low base.
Digitally connecting the hemisphere remains one
of the key challenges for Latin America and the
Caribbean, as recognized during the Sixth Summit of
the Americas, which took place in Colombia in April
2012.4 While several countries have made remarkable
improvements that are clearly reflected in important
gains in the scores and rankings of the NRI—including
Panama, Mexico, Colombia, and El Salvador—overall,
Latin American and the Caribbean still suffers from
a serious lag that prevents it from fully leveraging the
potential of ICT to boost the regional productivity. The
social and, most remarkably, economic impacts accruing
from ICTs remain low in comparison with other regions
despite government-led efforts to develop and upgrade
ICT infrastructure and also despite governments’
increasing use of the Internet to communicate and
interact with individuals and the business community.
Weaknesses in the political and regulatory environment,
the existence of large segments of the population with a
low skill base, and poor development of the innovation
system are all factors hindering the potential that ICT
developments could have on the regional economy.
Sub-Saharan Africa has continued to make
significant efforts to build its ICT infrastructure, as
reflected by important improvements in developing its
broadband infrastructure and the expansion of its mobile
network coverage. As a result, ICT usage, while still
very low, has picked up slightly, as seen especially by
an increase in the number of Internet users and also by
the continued commitment of some governments in the
region to expand the number of available online services.
Despite this positive trend, the stubbornly high sharp
digital divide from more advanced economies, notably
in terms of ICT-driven economic and social impacts,
persists. A still-costly access to ICT infrastructure,

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | xiii

Executive Summary

relatively low levels of skills with low educational
attainments, and unfavorable business conditions for
entrepreneurship and innovation are hindering the
region’s capacity to fully leverage the potential of the
increasingly available ICT infrastructure. As a result, only
two countries—Mauritius (55th) and South Africa (70th)—
are positioned in the top half of the rankings, while nine
out of the bottom ten belong to the region.
The Middle East and North Africa region boasts
one of the most diverse performances in the world.
On the one hand, Israel and several Gulf Cooperation
Council states have sharply improved their overall
performances and have continued their investments to
make ICTs one of the key national industries that attempt
to diversify and transform their economies. On the other
hand, several North African and Levant nations have
either fallen—or stagnated, in the best cases—in their
efforts to leverage ICTs as part of their economic and
social transformation process toward more knowledgeintensive activities and open societies.
Digitization for Economic Growth and Job Creation:
Regional and Industry Perspectives
Chapter 1.2, contributed by Karim Sabbagh, Roman
Friedrich, Bahjat El-Darwiche, Milind Singh, and Alex
Koster at Booz & Company, analyses the rise of
digitization—the mass adoption of connected digital
services by consumers, enterprises, and governments—
as a key economic driver that accelerates growth
and facilitates job creation. In the current context
of a sluggish global economy, digitization can play
an important role in assisting policymakers to spur
economic growth and employment. Booz & Company’s
econometric analysis estimates that, despite the
unfavorable global economic climate, digitization
provided a US$193 billion boost to world economic
output and created 6 million jobs globally in 2011.5
However, the impact of digitization by country
and by sector is uneven. Developed economies enjoy
higher economic growth benefits by a factor of almost
25 percent, although they tend to lag behind emerging
economies in job creation by a similar margin. The
main reason for the differing effects of digitization
lies in the economic structures of developed and
emerging economies. Developed countries rely chiefly
on domestic consumption, which makes nontradable
sectors important. Across developed economies,
digitization improves productivity and has a measurable
effect on growth. However, the result can be job losses
because lower-skilled, lower-value-added work is sent
abroad to emerging markets where labor is cheaper. By
contrast, emerging markets are more export-oriented
and driven by tradable sectors. They tend to gain more
from digitization’s effect on employment than from its
influence on growth.

xiv | The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013

Policymakers can harness these varying effects of
digitization through three main measures that go beyond
their current roles of setting policy and regulations. First,
they should create digitization plans for targeted sectors
in which they wish to maximize the impact of digitization.
Second, they should encourage the development of the
necessary capabilities and enablers to achieve these
digitization plans. Finally, policymakers should work
in concert with industry, consumers, and government
agencies to establish an inclusive ICT ecosystem that
encourages greater uptake and usage of digital services.
Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies: A
Taxonomy of National Broadband and ICT Plans
In Chapter 1.3, Robert Pepper and John Garrity from
Cisco Systems analyze the wide range of formal
broadband policies around the world. A critical question
now is whether the divergence in policy packages will
result in significant differences in the efficacy of plans.
To begin this research and establish a foundation
for understanding the global landscape of national
broadband and ICT plans, this chapter reviews
plans around the world and presents a taxonomy
for classification. The authors first detail the existing
relationship among broadband, economic growth,
and employment. Next they analyze a cross-section
of national plans, their objectives, and their policy
components. Subsequently they propose a taxonomy
examining the degree of broadband supply- and
demand-side emphasis. This taxonomy establishes a
common language that can guide governments through
the development of national broadband plans and serves
as a baseline for evaluating the factors of success for
implemented plans.
They find that as countries around the world have
developed national plans to accelerate broadband
adoption, the plans vary by both goals and policy
recommendations. Their taxonomy of broad-based,
supply-driven, demand-driven, and emergent plans
provides a clear method for categorizing national
broadband and ICT plans on the breadth of their policy
options; the classification also provides a starting point
for the review and comparison of national plans. Further,
it can aid policymakers in countries with strategic plans
underway as they work to increase broadband adoption.
The Importance of National Policy Leadership
Chapter 1.4, contributed by Phillippa Biggs and Anna
Polomska at the ITU/UNESCO Broadband Commission
for Digital Development, evaluates recent growth in
national broadband plans and the importance of national
policy leadership for driving the rollout of broadband
networks, services, and applications. In light of recent
evidence for strong positive externalities to investments
in broadband networks, rapid technological evolution,
and a changing institutional environment, the chapter

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Executive Summary

explores the changing role of policymakers in helping to
facilitate and set national policy.
A growing number of countries now recognize
the importance of policy leadership and a clear crosssectoral vision to maximize the economic and social
returns to ICTs, as shown by strong growth in the
number of national broadband plans. This chapter
provides a brief overview of the growth in these plans
and the key characteristics of good ones, with reference
to several examples: the US, UK, and Polish national
broadband plans.
Fiber Broadband: A Foundation for Social and
Economic Growth
In Chapter 1.5, Sean Williams from BT highlights the fact
that, as the foundation for knowledge- and ICT-based
jobs, fiber broadband has the potential to drive social
and economic growth and help create jobs. As Europe,
and the wider developed world, look to emerge from the
recent financial crisis and downturn, such growth will be
vital. The issue is not whether fiber broadband can help
drive social and economic growth, but how the vision
of coverage as close as possible to 100 percent can be
achieved.
This chapter aims to advance the debate in two
ways: first, by reviewing recent independent research
from Regeneris, an economic development consulting
firm, detailing the economic impact of high-speed
broadband infrastructure on environments as diverse as
capital cities and economically deprived rural regions.
And second, by articulating technical and market
solutions that are fit for purpose in the current economic
climate.
The chapter recommends policy responses that
national governments and regional authorities should
implement to put these solutions into action.
The Economic Impact of Next-Generation Mobile
Services: How 3G Connections and the Use of
Mobile Data Impact GDP Growth
In Chapter 1.6, Chris Williams, Davide Strusani, David
Vincent, and David Kovo from Deloitte LLP argue that
the mobile telecommunication sector continues to offer
unprecedented opportunities for economic growth in
both developing and developed markets, and that mobile
communication services have become an essential part
of how economies work and function.
As technology develops, mobile telephony has
the potential to impact economic development further
through the provision of high-value 3G and 4G data
services accessed via smartphones, tablets, and
dongles that deliver mobile data services to businesses
and consumers. For the first time, applying econometric
analysis, the authors studiy the impact, on GDP
per capita growth, of consumers substituting a 2G
connection with a 3G connection and, based on data

from Cisco Systems, the impact of increasing usage of
mobile data per 3G connection. This study finds that:
•	 For a given level of mobile penetration, a 10 percent
increase in 3G penetration increases GDP per capita
growth by 0.15 percentage points.
•	 A doubling of mobile data use is associated with an
increase in the GDP per capita growth rate of 0.5
percentage points.
These results suggest that policy activity should
focus on increasing 3G penetration and mobile data
consumption. This focus should include making
spectrum available for mobile broadband and
encouraging the substitution of basic mobile services
with more-advanced 3G connections.
Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential
of Health Information Technologies
Healthcare has become an increasingly dominant topic
of discussion in recent years because of rising costs
and the need to improve the efficiency and quality of
healthcare delivery. Although ICTs cannot, alone, provide
the solution for overcoming these issues, they are seen
by many governments as potentially playing a significant
role as enablers of the changes required in health
systems.
In light of this, a critical question now facing
policymakers is how to realize the full potential of
these technologies, particularly since the challenges to
achieving widespread ICT adoption and use are proving
daunting.
In Chapter 1.7, Elettra Ronchi from the Organisation
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD),
Julia Adler-Milstein and Genna R. Cohen from the
University of Michigan, and Laura P. Winn and Ashish
K. Jha from the Harvard School of Public Health argue
that countries have much to gain by combining their
efforts and sharing the burden of developing comparable
measures for evidence-based policy in this sector. Risk,
delay, and cost can be minimized by learning from good
international practices.
The chapter reviews what is currently known
about the state of implementation of ICTs in the health
sector across OECD countries and the benefits that
can be realized from these technologies, including the
opportunities for economic growth. It then discusses
the efforts, led by the OECD, to develop a common set
of indicators, describing the policy motivation for this
work, the process followed, the current status of these
measures, and the key remaining challenges.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | xv

Executive Summary

Re-Establishing the European Union’s
Competitiveness with the Next Wave of Investment
in Telecommunications
In Chapter 1.8, Scott Beardsley, Luis Enriquez, Wim
Torfs, Ferry Grijpink, Stagg Newman, Sergio Sandoval,
and Malin Strandell-Jansson from McKinsey & Company
argue that Europe’s fixed and mobile telecommunication
networks need a massive upgrade to satisfy burgeoning
consumer demand for new Internet services. McKinsey
& Company estimates that modernizing the EU-15’s fixed
telecommunication infrastructure to give all households
access to high-speed broadband will take €200 to €250
billion, while revamping Europe’s mobile infrastructure to
offer 4G services to 95 percent of the region’s population
would cost another €50 to €70 billion.
Unless they make investments on this scale,
Europe’s economies risk losing technology leadership
across the telecommunication value chain to Asia and
the United States. High-speed network investment is far
ahead in both regions. For instance, around 64 percent
of 4G mobile subscriptions worldwide are in North
America, 33 percent in Asia Pacific, but only 3 percent
in Europe. Value-added by the US telecommunication
industry grew in real terms by 18 percent from 2007 to
2010, but only 7 percent in Europe.
Downward pressure on both wholesale and
retail prices is choking growth and profitability among
Europe’s telecommunication players, hindering them
from meeting their investment challenge. This chapter
offers four ideas for shaping a region-wide policy
framework that could lift those constraints:
•	 Allow a reduction in the number of fixed and
mobile operators. Europe’s consumers could be
better served by an industry with fewer players that
are strong enough to make large investments but
sufficiently plentiful to ensure vibrant competition.
•	 Allow more pricing flexibility, so operators
get a proportionate return from customers who
generate the most data traffic and take up the most
bandwidth.
•	 Restrict wholesale access regulation to a few
basic services, and allow “regulatory” holidays.
This would give operators a better chance of
recouping their investments.
•	 Release more spectrum to operators, giving them
more options for extending network capacity.
The Big Opportunity for Inclusive Growth
The social and economic environment is changing,
and the way that business and government look at the
economy must change with it. If not, we run the risk of
social exclusion and further economic slowdown.
Big data is a new asset class that has great
potential to help resurrect the global economy. Unlike

xvi | The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013

other essential assets—oil and water, for instance—it
exists in abundance and can help reduce conflict and
tension instead of proliferating discord.
In Chapter 1.9, Mikael Hagström and Ian Manocha
from SAS Institute Inc. identify how big data and
analytics can help energize the economy through
efficiency, innovation and creative gains, by:
•	 using big data to stimulate new ways of doing
business;
•	 using linguistic-based analytics to formulate policies
and target action plans to tackle unemployment
before problems manifest themselves;
•	 using big data and analytics to match people to jobs
and jobs to people more proactively—the chapter
draws on experiences at the national and state
government level, and from working with financial
institutions; and
•	 putting the tools and methods of analytics into
the hands of an existing workforce to industrialize
the service economy (the sleeping giant), much
as Henry Ford’s innovation industrialized factory
production.
The chapter analyzes advances in ICTs and
current applications—such as how a major retail
organization comes to understand what customers
want (what products, where, and when) and the flow
of this information back down their supply chain to
manufacturers, based on demand. Such approaches
can help ensure we have qualified labor in the right
location at the right time.
PART 2: CASE STUDIES OF LEVERAGING ICTS FOR
COMPETITIVENESS AND WELL-BEING
Part 2 presents deep-dive studies of selected national
experiences of leveraging ICTs or developing the
sector, showcasing the main challenges faced and
the articulation of strategies to overcome them. In this
edition, the cases of Colombia and Rwanda, as well as
a comparative case study of e-government in three Latin
American countries, are presented.
Colombia’s Digital Agenda: Successes and
Challenges Ahead
In recent years, the ICT sector has gained importance
in Colombian public policy because the government has
given priority to the development of Plan Vive Digital,
which seeks to give the country a technological leap
forward that affects the economy and development
in a positive way, reducing poverty and increasing
competitiveness and productivity.
In Chapter 2.1, Diego Molano Vega, Minister of
Information and Communication Technologies of
Colombia, identifies the four obstacles to achieving the

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Executive Summary

widespread use of the Internet in his country: (1) people
and businesses do not perceive the Internet as useful;
(2) the costs of installing the necessary infrastructure
are high; (3) the state has limited resources to invest in
infrastructure; and (4) Colombians’ purchasing power is
limited.
To achieve widespread Internet use, Plan Vive Digital
has defined some concrete goals for the year 2014:
1.	 Triple the number of municipalities connected to
the information highway. The aim is to extend the
infrastructure to connect 1,053 of the country’s
municipalities to the national fiber-optic network.
2.	 Connect 50 percent of micro-enterprises and
small- and medium-sized enterprises, and 50
percent of homes to the Internet.
3.	 Increase the number of Internet connections
fourfold. By 2014, we want to reach 8.8 million
Internet connections.
Vive Digital aims to develop the country’s digital
environment through its four principal components by:
1.	
2.	
3.	
4.	

expanding the infrastructure,
creating new services at lower prices,
developing digital applications and contents, and
fostering ICT adoption and use.

The main goal is to establish a virtuous circle that
can act as a method of feedback, in which a better
infrastructure will allow more and better services at lower
prices and also stimulate the development of content,
applications, and demand.
The Metamorphosis to a Knowledge-Based Society:
Rwanda
Chapter 2.2, by Alex Ntale from the Rwanda ICT
Chamber and Private Sector Federation, Atsushi
Yamanaka from the Rwanda Development Board-ICT/
Japan International Cooperation Agency, and Didier
Nkurikiyimfura from Rwanda’s Ministry of Youth and ICT,
present Rwanda’s remarkable journey from an agrarian
economy to a knowledge-based one that has put the
country at the forefront of the region in terms of ICTs.
Rwanda’s economy has continued to grow at
comparably good rates, averaging 8 percent per annum,
despite a global recessionary environment starting in
2008 and containing high inflationary pressures. This
growth in such adverse circumstances can be attributed
to good governance, sound fiscal discipline, and the
commitment from both the public and private sector to
build a more equitable country.
In the World Bank’s Doing Business 2012 report,
Rwanda is ranked number one in East Africa with
respect to starting up a business, registering property,
protecting investors’ interests, enforcing contracts, and

obtaining access to credit. The Global Competitiveness
Report 2012–2013 published by the World Economic
Forum ranked Rwanda the most competitive economy in
the East Africa Community (EAC) countries and third in
sub-Saharan Africa. Rwanda also received top ranking in
East Africa, and 7th in Africa among countries with active
mobile-broadband subscriptions per 100 inhabitants
in 2011 in the United Nations Broadband Commission
report.
In many respects, this progress has come as a
result of visionary leadership and good governance
practices that have been embraced by Rwanda’s
leaders. Rwanda has systematically fought corruption,
which is one of the biggest impediments to development
in Africa and everywhere in the world.
In its Vision 2020, developed in 2000, Rwanda
set out on a journey to becoming a knowledge-based
economy. To this end, the government integrated ICTs
into its Vision 2020 to enable the country to leapfrog the
key stages of industrialization and transform its agrobased economy into a service-oriented, information-rich
and knowledge-based one that is globally competitive.
This integration came in the form of its national ICT
strategy and plan, commonly known as the National
Information Communication Infrastructure Plan (NICI
Plan), which Rwanda adopted in 2000 as an approach
to use ICTs holistically for development. Each five-year
phase (the NICI Plan includes four five-year phases
spanning 20 years) characterizes this strategy and is
aligned with the country’s overall development goals and
vision.
The plan, now in its third phase, has delivered
a number of successes. These include a nationwide
fiber-optic backbone network, a state-of-the art tier 3
data center, 96 percent cell phone/data coverage, and
multipurpose community tele-centers, to mention but a
few of the plan’s successes.
E-Government in Latin America: A Review of the
Success in Colombia, Uruguay, and Panama
Although Latin America entered in the 21st century
with abundant initiatives aimed at introducing ICTs
in the public sector, as evidenced by the numerous
e-government solutions documented by the excelGov
Awards, very few countries have been able to maintain
a rhythm of progress comparable to the most advanced
nations in the world. Colombia, Uruguay, Panama, Chile,
and occasionally Mexico and Brazil, have occupied a
place among the top 50 e-government countries in the
most recognized worldwide rankings.
Chapter 2.3, by Miguel A. Porrúa from the
Organization of American States, looks at three Latin
American countries—Colombia, Uruguay, and Panama—
and charts their respective paths to achieving success in
establishing ICTs in public administration, and identifies
some of their common elements.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | xvii

Executive Summary

For the past five years, Colombia, Uruguay,
and Panama have seen progress that not only
becomes empirical proof of the validity of most of the
recommendations made by e-government authors and
practitioners but also positions these three countries as
a valuable reference for others around the world.
The three have built their success upon solid
political support that comes from the highest office, the
presidential, and goes to the next level, the ministerial.
In all three countries, presidents have shown their
commitment not just with words but with actions.
Presidential decrees have sent an unmistakable
message to citizens and government officers alike about
their unwavering commitment to bringing ICTs to the
public administration.
Usually, an immediate consequence of that
political support is the availability of financial resources
to undertake the main initiatives. Unfortunately, Latin
America offers numerous examples of fruitless, welldesigned e-government plans that, years after launching,
are still waiting to see some financial investment that
would allow the projects to be implemented. Although
Colombia, Uruguay, and Panama could have done
more in providing funding to e-government initiatives,
they clearly understood that nice documents with no
backing money produce no results. Smartly using
international cooperation and public-private partnerships,
they managed to allocate financial resources to their
e-government plans every year.
The virtuous triangle of success in these three
countries adds another vertex in the careful attention
paid to human resources. The systematic investment
in the qualification of government officers as well as
a carefully designed institutional framework allowed
Colombia, Uruguay, and Panama to advance more
quickly than other countries in the region.
Other ingredients, such as the operational autonomy
of AGESIC in Uruguay and AIG in Panama; the
appropriation office in Colombia; the strong IT sector in
Uruguay; the international cooperation in Panama; the
implication of the private sector in Colombia; and the
commitment of three, well-qualified champions in the
three countries added the necessary spice to a recipe
made of the best ingredients: political support, financial
backing, and qualified human resources.

non-Survey data variables included in the NRI
computation this year.
NOTES
	 1	 Jipp 1963.
	 2	 See World Economic Forum 2012.
	 3	 See the European Commission’s Digital Agenda, available at
http://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/.
	 4	 See http://www.summit-americas.org/default_en.htm.
	 5	 The authors have estimated the GDP and employment impact
caused by the increased digitization in most countries and
aggregated to get the global impact.

REFERENCES
ITU (International Telecommunication Union). 2012. World
Telecomunication/ICT Indicators Database (December 2012
edition.) Available at http://www.itu.int/ITU-D/ict/publications/
world/world.html.
Jipp, A. 1963. “Wealth of Nations and Telephone Density.”
Telecommunications Journal (July): 199–201.
Katz, R. 2012. The Impact of Broadband on the Economy: Research
to Date and Policy Issues. ITU Broadband Series, April. Geneva:
ITU. Available at http://www.itu.int/ITU-D/treg/broadband/ITU-BBReports_Impact-of-Broadband-on-the-Economy.pdf.
World Economic Forum. 2012. The Global Competitiveness Report
2012–2013. Geneva: World Economic Forum. Available at www.
weforum.org/gcr.

PARTS 3 AND 4: COUNTRY/ECONOMY PROFILES
AND DATA PRESENTATION
Parts 3 and 4 feature comprehensive profiles for each
of the 144 economies covered in this year’s Report
and data tables for each of the 54 variables composing
the NRI, with global rankings. Each part begins with a
description of how to interpret the data provided.
Technical notes and sources, included at the end
of Part 4, provide additional insight and information
on the definitions and sources of specific quantitative

xviii | The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Networked
Readiness Index
Rankings

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Networked Readiness Index 2013
				
	 Rank	
Country/Economy	
Score	

	1	
	2	
	3	
	4	
	5	
	6	
	 7	
	8	
	 9	
	 10	
	 11	
	12	
	13	
	 14	
	15	
	16	
	17	
	18	
	19	
	 20	
	21	
	22	
	23	
	24	
	 25	
	26	
	27	
	28	
	29	
	30	
	 31	
	32	
	33	
	34	
	35	
	 36	
	37	
	38	
	39	
	40	
	41	
	 42	
	43	
	44	
	45	
	46	
	47	
	48	
	49	
	50	
	51	
	52	
	 53	
	 54	
	55	
	56	
	 57	
	58	
	59	
	60	
	 61	
	62	
	63	
	64	
	65	
	66	
	 67	
	68	
	 69	
	 70	
	71	
	 72	

Finland	
Singapore	
Sweden	
Netherlands	
Norway	
Switzerland	
United Kingdom	
Denmark	
United States	
Taiwan, China	
Korea, Rep.	
Canada	
Germany	
Hong Kong SAR	
Israel	
Luxembourg	
Iceland	
Australia	
Austria	
New Zealand	
Japan	
Estonia	
Qatar	
Belgium	
United Arab Emirates	
France	
Ireland	
Malta	
Bahrain	
Malaysia	
Saudi Arabia	
Lithuania	
Portugal	
Chile	
Cyprus	
Puerto Rico	
Slovenia	
Spain	
Barbados	
Oman	
Latvia	
Czech Republic	
Kazakhstan	
Hungary	
Turkey	
Panama	
Jordan	
Montenegro	
Poland	
Italy	
Croatia	
Uruguay	
Costa Rica	
Russian Federation	
Mauritius	
Azerbaijan	
Brunei Darussalam	
China	
Mongolia	
Brazil	
Slovak Republic	
Kuwait	
Mexico	
Greece	
Georgia	
Colombia	
Macedonia, FYR	
India	
Sri Lanka	
South Africa	
Bulgaria	
Trinidad and Tobago	

5.98	
5.96	
5.91	
5.81	
5.66	
5.66	
5.64	
5.58	
5.57	
5.47	
5.46	
5.44	
5.43	
5.40	
5.39	
5.37	
5.31	
5.26	
5.25	
5.25	
5.24	
5.12	
5.10	
5.10	
5.07	
5.06	
5.05	
4.90	
4.83	
4.82	
4.82	
4.72	
4.67	
4.59	
4.59	
4.55	
4.53	
4.51	
4.49	
4.48	
4.43	
4.38	
4.32	
4.29	
4.22	
4.22	
4.20	
4.20	
4.19	
4.18	
4.17	
4.16	
4.15	
4.13	
4.12	
4.11	
4.11	
4.03	
4.01	
3.97	
3.95	
3.94	
3.93	
3.93	
3.93	
3.91	
3.89	
3.88	
3.88	
3.87	
3.87	
3.87	

2012 rank
(out of 142)

3
2
1
6
7
5
10
4
8
11
12
9
16
13
20
21
15
17
19
14
18
24
28
22
30
23
25
26
27
29
34
31
33
39
32
36
37
38
35
40
41
42
55
43
52
57
47
46
49
48
45
44
58
56
53
61
54
51
63
65
64
62
76
59
88
73
66
69
71
72
70
60

				
	 Rank	
Country/Economy	
Score	

	73	
	74	
	75	
	76	
	77	
	 78	
	79	
	80	
	 81	
	82	
	83	
	84	
	85	
	86	
	87	
	88	
	89	
	 90	
	91	
	92	
	 93	
	94	
	95	
	96	
	97	
	 98	
	99	
	100	
	 101	
	102	
	103	
	104	
	105	
	106	
	107	
	108	
	109	
	110	
	111	
	112	
	113	
	114	
	115	
	116	
	117	
	 118	
	119	
	 120	
	121	
	122	
	123	
	124	
	125	
	126	
	127	
	128	
	129	
	 130	
	131	
	132	
	133	
	134	
	135	
	136	
	137	
	138	
	139	
	140	
	141	
	142	
	 143	
	144	

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Ukraine	
Thailand	
Romania	
Indonesia	
Moldova	
Bosnia and Herzegovina	
Seychelles	
Egypt	
Cape Verde	
Armenia	
Albania	
Vietnam	
Jamaica	
Philippines	
Serbia	
Rwanda	
Morocco	
Dominican Republic	
Ecuador	
Kenya	
El Salvador	
Lebanon	
Ghana	
Botswana	
Liberia	
Gambia, The	
Argentina	
Guyana	
Iran, Islamic Rep.	
Guatemala	
Peru	
Paraguay	
Pakistan	
Cambodia	
Senegal	
Venezuela	
Honduras	
Uganda	
Namibia	
Tajikistan	
Nigeria	
Bangladesh	
Zambia	
Zimbabwe	
Suriname	
Kyrgyz Republic	
Bolivia	
Côte d’Ivoire	
Gabon	
Mali	
Benin	
Cameroon	
Nicaragua	
Nepal	
Tanzania	
Ethiopia	
Malawi	
Burkina Faso	
Algeria	
Libya	
Mozambique	
Timor-Leste	
Mauritania	
Swaziland	
Madagascar	
Lesotho	
Yemen	
Guinea	
Haiti	
Chad	
Sierra Leone	
Burundi	

3.87	
3.86	
3.86	
3.84	
3.84	
3.80	
3.80	
3.78	
3.78	
3.76	
3.75	
3.74	
3.74	
3.73	
3.70	
3.68	
3.64	
3.62	
3.58	
3.54	
3.53	
3.53	
3.51	
3.50	
3.48	
3.47	
3.47	
3.45	
3.43	
3.42	
3.39	
3.37	
3.35	
3.34	
3.33	
3.33	
3.32	
3.30	
3.29	
3.29	
3.27	
3.22	
3.19	
3.17	
3.13	
3.09	
3.01	
3.00	
2.97	
2.97	
2.97	
2.95	
2.93	
2.93	
2.92	
2.85	
2.83	
2.80	
2.78	
2.77	
2.76	
2.72	
2.71	
2.69	
2.69	
2.68	
2.63	
2.61	
2.58	
2.53	
2.53	
2.30	

2012 rank
(out of 142)

75
77
67
80
78
84
n/a
79
81
94
68
83
74
86
85
82
91
87
96
93
103
95
97
89
n/a
101
92
90
104
98
106
111
102
108
100
107
99
110
105
114
112
113
109
124
121
115
127
122
n/a
126
117
125
131
128
123
130
116
135
118
n/a
120
132
139
136
134
133
141
n/a
142
138
n/a
137

The Global Information Technology Report Report 2013 | xxi

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Part 1
The Current
Networked Readiness
for Growth and Jobs

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.1

The Networked Readiness
Index 2013: Benchmarking
ICT Uptake and Support
for Growth and Jobs in a
Hyperconnected World
BEÑAT BILBAO-OSORIO, World Economic Forum
SOUMITRA DUTTA , Cornell University
THIERRY GEIGER, World Economic Forum
BRUNO LANVIN, INSEAD

When The Global Information Technology Report (GITR)
and the Networked Readiness Index (NRI) were created
some 12 years ago, the attention of decision makers
and investors was on adopting business and financial
strategies that would allow them to develop in the
context of a fast-moving but nascent Internet economy.
Over more than a decade, the NRI has provided
decision makers with a useful conceptual framework to
evaluate the impact of information and communication
technologies (ICTs) at a global level, and to benchmark
the ICT readiness and the usage of their economies.
Today, the world has undergone massive changes:
the Internet bubble has come and gone, and emerging
countries such as China and India have become
prominent global providers and users of ICT equipment
and services. Struggling to emerge from the financial
crisis, developed economies are striving to return to
higher levels of growth and competitiveness while
fighting stubbornly high unemployment rates, especially
among their youth. Both emerging and developed
economies are focusing on innovation, competing
globally for talent, resources, and market shares.
Information flows and networks have spread across
borders in ways that could not be imagined before the
onset of the Internet, the global adoption of mobile
telephony and social networks, and the rapid growth of
broadband. Business models have been redefined, the
workplace has been redesigned, small startups have
evolved into large companies, and entire functions of
society (education, health, security, privacy) are being
rethought.
ICTs, COMPETITIVENESS, GROWTH, AND JOBS: A
COMPLEX RELATIONSHIP
The links between ICTs (their tools, services, and models)
on the one hand and the unwavering importance of
competitiveness, growth, and jobs on the other have
never before been the subject of so much attention and
concern. This is hardly surprising when one considers
the “pull” of technology: developed economies need
to reinvent themselves to maintain or restore their
competitiveness, retain or regain market shares, and
create jobs; emerging and developing economies are
seeking ways to improve productivity and find new
sources of growth through new technologies. Finally,
the world needs to collectively address environmental
and social challenges to ensure a more sustainable
development path and a better quality of life for its
people.
On the “push” side, technological progress
continues at a relentless speed. The growing availability
of technology has empowered citizens of both developed
and emerging economies with fairly good access to the
digital world. The rise of cloud computing has reduced
the competitive differentials in technology availability
across larger and smaller firms. Low entry barriers in the

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 3

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

digital space have sparked creativity and given rise to a
class of young entrepreneurs around the world. It is clear
that ICTs offer higher benefit-to-cost ratios in all sectors
of production, while simultaneously offering new ways to
create value by better and more efficiently organizing the
use of natural, financial, and human resources.
Numerous studies have been presented in the
literature on the connections between ICTs on the
one hand, and development and growth on the other.
Although the first analyses of the economic impact
of fixed telephone density on economic growth were
conducted more than three decades ago,1 such studies
have proliferated in recent years. Despite the ubiquity
of ICTs in society and business, such research has
not been easy. For one thing, the pace of adoption of
many technologies (broadband, mobile, etc.) has been
fast and recent—thus limiting the validity of longitudinal
studies and making it difficult for data collection
agencies to keep pace with the definition and collection
of appropriate metrics. Also, it remains challenging to
isolate the impact of ICT as its economic impacts have
often occurred when combined with other broad social
and business changes.
A recent ITU report summarizes the overall findings
from current research on the economic impact of
broadband:

First, broadband exhibits a higher contribution to
economic growth in countries that have a higher
adoption of the technology (this could be labelled the
“critical mass” or “return to scale” theory). Second,
broadband has a stronger productivity impact in
sectors with high transaction costs, such as financial
services, or high labor intensity, such as tourism and
lodging. Third, in less-developed regions, as postulated
in economic theory, broadband enables the adoption
of more efficient business processes and leads to
capital-labour substitution and, therefore, loss of jobs
(this could be labelled the “productivity shock theory”).
Fourth, the impact of broadband on small and medium
enterprises takes longer to materialize due to the need to
restructure the firms’ processes and labor organization
in order to gain from adopting the technology (this is
called “accumulation of intangible capital”). Finally, the
economic impact of broadband is higher when promotion
of the technology is combined with stimulus of innovative
businesses that are tied to new applications. In other
words, the impact of broadband is neither automatic nor
homogeneous across the economic system.2

The concluding sentence above is important and
generally valid for most other analyses of the economic
impact of ICTs on development and growth. This in
no way negates either the economic impact of ICTs or

4 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

the studies thereof. Rather, it highlights the valuable
contribution of comprehensive models of ICT usage and
impact such as the Networked Readiness Index (NRI).
The ITU report concludes that “this emphasizes the
importance of implementing public policies not only in
the areas of telecommunications regulation, but also in
education, economic development and planning, science
and technology and others.”3
For more than a decade, the NRI has included
aspects of the ways ICTs are transforming the economy
and society. Among the expressions of transformation
is the development of new skills that are important in
knowledge-based, information-rich societies and that
are crucial for employment. Despite the fact that ICTs are
becoming increasingly universal, the question of access
and usage remains important—especially for developing
countries, given their need to narrow the digital divide.
The NRI includes features related to access and usage
that cover not only affordable ICT infrastructure but
also digital resources, including software and skills. In
addition, the NRI includes proxies for assessing some
of the economic and social impacts accruing from ICTs.
Thus, the Index facilitates the identification of areas
where policy intervention—through investment, smart
regulation, and/or incentives—could boost the impact of
ICTs on development and growth.
THE NETWORKED READINESS FRAMEWORK: A
HOLISTIC APPROACH TO MEASURE ICT ACCESS
AND IMPACTS
Given the potential high returns that ICTs can provide
in transforming a nation’s economy and its citizens’
well-being, assessing ICT developments has been the
object of much academic and policy attention in the past
decade. Several organizations have made significant
efforts to measure and benchmark ICT deployment
and uptake, but few have aimed at equally assessing
the returns that ICTs can actually provide to both the
economy and society. Although data availability is
still scarce in terms of ICT impacts, policy interest in
measuring ICTs has shifted from measuring ICT access
to measuring ICT impacts.
Last year, after two years of research and
consultations with ICT practitioners, policy and industry
experts, and academia, the NRI introduced a new
subindex on ICT impacts that aimed at holistically
assessing the way that countries go about leveraging
ICTs and benefiting from them in terms of enhanced
competitiveness and well-being. This evolution ensures
that the NRI framework remains at the forefront of
ICT measurement. As one of the most authoritative
assessments of its kind, it has been adopted by several
governments as a valuable tool for informing their
competitiveness and policy agendas.
The design of the framework for the calculation of
the NRI (Figure 1) has been guided by five principles:

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Figure 1: The Networked Readiness Index framework

DRIVERS

IMPACTS

Environment
Infrastructure

Affordability

Economic

Individual

Skills

Business

Government
Social

Readiness

Usage

1.	 Measuring the economic and social impacts
of ICTs is crucial. The NRI must include
aspects of the way ICTs are transforming both
the economy and society. In the economy of
several countries, the ICT industry has become
increasingly important and now accounts for a
significant share of value-added and employment.
In addition, ICTs interact closely with many other
sectors, thus enabling innovations to accrue and
affecting productivity. Moreover, the impacts of
ICTs are also evident in the development of new
skills that are important in knowledge-based,
information-rich societies and that are crucial for
employment. In society, ICTs allow citizens to
participate more actively and steadily in social
and political debates and make the government
more accountable. They improve access to better
and faster services, which, in turn, yield important
benefits.
2.	 An enabling environment determines the
capacity of an economy and society to benefit
from the use of ICTs. The success of a country
in leveraging ICTs and achieving the desired
economic and social benefits will depend on its
overall environment—including market conditions,
the regulatory framework, and innovationprone conditions—to boost innovation and
entrepreneurship.
3.	 ICT readiness and usage remain key drivers
and preconditions for obtaining any impacts.
Despite the increasing availability of ICTs,
the question of access and usage remains
important especially for developing countries,

given their need to narrow the digital divide.
Even within developed nations, the need to
provide high-speed broadband to all segments
of the population has acquired importance in
recent years. Some features of the NRI are
related to access and usage; these cover not
only affordable ICT infrastructure but also digital
resources, including software and skills. Moreover,
ICT impacts can arise only if ICTs are widely used
by all key actors—individuals, businesses, and
governments. It is a society-wide effort. Those
actors demonstrating better preparedness and
greater interest are likely to use ICT more and
more effectively, contributing to a greater impact
on competitiveness and development.
4.	 All factors interact and co-evolve within an
ICT ecosystem. Those societies that can count
on better-prepared actors and an enabling
environment are more likely to benefit from higher
rates of ICT use and impacts. At the same time,
those societies that benefit from higher rates
of ICT use and positive impacts will, in turn, be
more likely to benefit from a push on the part of
the different stakeholders to be better prepared
and keep improving the framework conditions
that will allow for more and stronger benefits
to accrue. As a result, a virtuous circle starts,
where improvements in one area affect and drive
improvements in other areas. Conversely, lags in
one particular factor also affect the evolution of
the other factors.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 5

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Figure 2: The Networked Readiness Index structure

Subindexes

Pillars

Political and regulatory environment
Environment
Business and innovation environment

Infrastructure and digital content
Readiness

Affordability
Skills

The Networked
Readiness Index

Individual usage
Usage

Business usage
Government usage

Economic impacts
Impact
Social impacts

5.	 The framework should provide clear policy
orientations and identify opportunities
for public-private collaboration. The NRI
facilitates the identification of areas where
policy intervention—through investment
including public-private partnerships, smart
regulation, or the provision of incentives—could
boost the impacts of ICTs. This is important
because the development and general uptake
of ICTs depend on the capacity of a country to
provide an institutional framework with reliable
and efficient rules and regulations; favorable
business conditions for the founding and growth
of new (social and commercial) enterprises;
an innovation-prone environment, capable of
developing and absorbing new knowledge; and
an ICT-friendly government policy.
ELEMENTS OF THE NETWORKED READINESS
INDEX
The networked readiness framework translates into
the NRI, comprising four subindexes that measure the
environment for ICTs; the readiness of a society to use
ICTs; the actual usage of all main stakeholders; and,
finally, the impacts that ICTs generate in the economy
and in society. The three first subindexes can be
regarded as the drivers that establish the conditions for

6 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

the results of the fourth subindex, ICT impacts. These
four subindexes are divided into 10 pillars composed of
54 individual indicators in total, according to the following
structure (see also Figure 2):
A.	 Environment subindex
	 1.	 Political and regulatory environment
	 2.	 Business and innovation environment
B.	 Readiness subindex
	 3.	 Infrastructure and digital content
	4.	 Affordability
	5.	 Skills
C.	 Usage subindex
	 6.	 Individual usage
	 7.	 Business usage
	 8.	 Government usage
D.	 Impact subindex
	 9.	 Economic impacts
	10.	 Social impacts

The final NRI score is a simple average of the four
composing subindex scores, while each subindex’s
score is a simple average of those of the composing
pillars. In doing this, we assume that all NRI subindexes

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

make a similar contribution to networked readiness.
Appendix A includes detailed information on the
composition and computation of the NRI 2013, while we
briefly describe the different subindexes below.
Environment subindex
The environment subindex gauges the friendliness
of a country’s market and regulatory framework in
supporting high levels of ICT uptake and the emergence
of entrepreneurship and innovation-prone conditions. A
supportive environment is necessary to maximize the
potential impacts of ICTs in boosting competitiveness
and well-being. It includes a total of 18 variables
distributed into two pillars.
The political and regulatory environment pillar
(composed of nine variables) assesses the extent
to which the national legal framework facilitates ICT
penetration and the safe development of business
activities, taking into account general features of the
regulatory environment (including the protection afforded
to property rights, the independence of the judiciary, and
the efficiency of the law-making process) as well as more
ICT-specific dimensions (the passing of laws related to
ICTs and software piracy rates).
The business and innovation environment pillar (nine
variables) gauges the quality of the business framework
conditions to boost entrepreneurship, taking into account
dimensions related to the ease of doing business
(including the presence of red tape and excessive fiscal
charges). This pillar also measures the presence of
conditions that allow innovation to flourish by including
variables on the overall availability of technology, the
demand conditions for innovative products (as proxied
by the development of government procurement of
advanced technology products), the availability of venture
capital for financing innovation-related projects, and the
presence of a skilled labor force.
Readiness subindex
The readiness subindex, with a total of 12 variables,
measures the degree to which a society is prepared to
make good use of an affordable ICT infrastructure and
digital content.
The infrastructure and digital content pillar (five
variables) captures the development of ICT infrastructure
(including mobile network coverage, international Internet
bandwidth, secure Internet servers, and electricity
production) as well as the accessibility of digital content.
The affordability pillar (three variables) assesses the
cost of accessing ICTs, either via mobile telephony or fixed
broadband Internet, as well as the level of competition in
the Internet and telephony sectors that determine this cost.
The skills pillar (four variables) gauges the ability
of a society to make effective use of ICTs thanks to
the existence of basic educational skills captured by

the quality of the educational system, the level of adult
literacy, and the rate of secondary education enrollment.
Usage subindex
The usage subindex assesses the individual efforts of
the main social agents—that is, individuals, business,
and government—to increase their capacity to use ICTs
as well as their actual use in their day-to-day activities
with other agents. It includes 16 variables.
The individual usage pillar (seven variables)
measures ICT penetration and diffusion at the individual
level, using indicators such as the number of mobile
phone subscriptions, individuals using the Internet,
households with a personal computer (PC), households
with Internet access, both fixed and mobile broadband
subscriptions, and the use of social networks.
The business usage pillar (six variables) captures the
extent of business Internet use as well as the efforts of
the firms in an economy to integrate ICTs into an internal,
technology-savvy, innovation-conducive environment that
generates productivity gains. Consequently, this pillar
measures the firm’s technology absorption capacity as
well as its overall capacity to innovate and the production
of technology novelties measured by the number of
Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) patent applications.
It also measures the extent of staff training available,
which indicates the extent to which management
and employees are more capable of identifying and
developing business innovations. New this year, we have
split the e-commerce variable from previous editions to
distinguish the business-to-business dimension from
the business-to-consumer one, as some noticeable
differences between the two dimensions exist in several
countries.
The government usage pillar (three variables)
provides insights into the importance that governments
place on carrying out ICT policies for competitiveness
and to enhance the well-being of their citizens, the
efforts they make to implement their visions for ICT
development, and the number of government services
they provide online.
Impact subindex
The impact subindex gauges the broad economic
and social impacts accruing from ICTs to boost
competitiveness and well-being and that reflect the
transformations toward an ICT- and technology-savvy
economy and society. It includes a total of eight
variables.
The economic impacts pillar (four variables)
measures the effect of ICTs on competitiveness thanks
to the generation of technological and non-technological
innovations in the shape of patents, new products or
processes, and organizational practices. In addition, it
also measures the overall shift of an economy toward
more knowledge-intensive activities.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 7

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Figure 3: Breakdown of indicators used in the Networked Readiness Index 2013 by data source

EXECUTIVE OPINION
SURVEY
27 INDICATORS
(50%)

INDICATORS FROM
OTHER SOURCES
27 INDICATORS
(50%)

The social impacts pillar (four variables) aims at
assessing the ICT-driven improvements in well-being
thanks to their impacts on the environment, education,
energy consumption, health progress, or more-active
civil participation. At the moment, because of data
limitations, this pillar focuses on measuring the extent to
which governments are becoming more efficient in the
use of ICTs and providing increasing online services to
their citizens, and thus improving their e-participation.
It also assess the extent to which ICTs are present in
education, as a proxy for the potential benefits that are
associated with the use of ICTs in education.
In general, measuring the impacts of ICTs is
a complex task, and the development of rigorous
quantitative data to do so is still in its infancy. As a result,
many of the dimensions where ICTs are producing
important impacts—especially when these impacts are
not translated into commercial activities, as is the case
for the environment and for health—cannot be covered
yet. Therefore this subindex should be regarded as a
work in progress that will evolve to accommodate new
data on many of these dimensions as they become
available.
COMPUTATION METHODOLOGY AND DATA
In order to capture as comprehensively as possible all
relevant dimensions of societies’ networked readiness,
the NRI 2013 is composed of a mixture of quantitative
and survey data, as shown in Figure 3.
Of the 54 variables composing the NRI this year, 27
are quantitative data, collected primarily by international

8 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

TOTAL: 54 INDICATORS

organizations such as International Telecommunication
Union (ITU), the World Bank, and the United Nations.
International sources ensure the validation and
comparability of data across countries.
The remaining 27 variables capture aspects that
are more qualitative in nature or for which internationally
comparable quantitative data are not available for a large
enough number of countries, but that nonetheless are
crucial to fully measure national networked readiness.
These data come from the Executive Opinion Survey (the
Survey), which the Forum administers annually to over
15,000 business leaders in all economies included in
the Report.4 The Survey represents a unique source of
insight on many critical aspects related to the enabling
environment, such as the effectiveness of law-making
bodies and the intensity of local competition; to ICT
readiness, such as the quality of the educational system
and the accessibility of digital content; to ICT usage,
such as capacity to innovate and the importance of
government vision for ICTs; and to impact, such as the
impact of ICTs on developing new products and services
and improving access to basic services.
The NRI’s coverage every year is determined by
the Survey coverage and data availability for indicators
obtained from other sources, mostly international
organizations. This year the Report includes 144
economies, two more than in the 2012 edition. Five
new countries are included: Gabon, Guinea, Liberia,
Seychelles, and Sierra Leone. Libya was re-included
after a year of absence. Three previously covered
countries had to be excluded from this year’s Report:

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Survey data could not be collected in Belize or Angola;
in Syria, the political situation did not allow the Survey
to be carried out. In the case of Tunisia, we decided
not to report the results this year because an important
structural break in the data makes comparisons with
past years difficult. We hope to re-include these
countries in the future.
More details on variables included in the Index and
their computation can be found in Appendix A and in the
Technical Notes and Sources section at the end of the
Report.
THE CURRENT NETWORKED READINESS
LANDSCAPE: INSIGHTS FROM THE NRI 2013
This section provides an overview of the networked
readiness landscape of the world as assessed by
the NRI 2013. It It presents the results of the top
10 performers and selected countries by region, in
the following order: Europe and the Commonwealth
of Independent States, Asia and the Pacific, Latin
America and the Caribbean, sub-Saharan Africa, and
the Middle East and North Africa. Tables 1 through 5
report the 2013 rankings for the overall NRI, its four
subindexes, and its ten pillars. In addition, the Country/
Economy Profiles and Data Tables sections at the end
of the Report present the detailed results for the 144
economies covered by the study and the 54 indicators
composing the NRI. To complement the analysis of the
results, Box 1 discusses the persisting new digital divide
across and within regions as revealed by the NRI results,
and Box 2 examines increasing returns to ICT, skills, and
innovation investment and suggests that an investment
threshold in these three areas may exist and that
without reaching it, the return may be negligible. Finally,
Appendix A of the present chapter details the structure
of the NRI and describes the method of calculation.
TOP 10
Two groups of economies dominate the top ranks of the
NRI: Northern European economies and the so-called
Asian Tigers. Among the Northern European countries,
four of the five Nordic economies represented in
the NRI—Finland, Sweden, Norway, and Denmark (in
rank order)—continue to feature in the top 10. Iceland,
the last of the Nordics, is not too far behind, at 17th
place (see Table 1). The performance of this group in
terms of readiness is particularly outstanding. All five
Nordics feature in the top 10 of this subindex. Within
this subindex, on the infrastructure and digital content
pillar, four countries occupy the top positions. Overall,
the four Nordic economies, the Netherlands, and the
United Kingdom comprise no less than six Northern
European countries among the top 10. As highlighted
in the previous edition and elsewhere in this Report,
the gap between those countries and the ones in the
Southern and Eastern parts of Europe is profound. A

second group of economies that posts a remarkable
performance is the Asian Tigers: Singapore, Taiwan
(China), the Republic of Korea, and Hong Kong SAR.
The latter, the lowest-ranked of the four, comes in at 14th
place. All boast outstanding business and innovation
environments that are consistently ranked among the
most conducive in the world. The Tigers also stand out
for their governments’ leadership in promoting the digital
agenda, and the impact of ICTs on society tends to be
larger in these economies.
Overtaking Singapore and neighboring Sweden,
Finland (1st) reaches the top of the NRI rankings for
the first time, thanks to improvements across the
board. The country shows progress on two-thirds of
the 54 indicators of the NRI and posts a very consistent
performance across all categories of the NRI. Finland
appears in the top three of each of the four subindexes
and in the top 10 of nine of the 10 pillars, topping
two (skills and economic impacts). Among the 144
economies, only Sweden achieves as impressive a
level of excellence and consistency. Finland’s lowest
rank among the 10 pillars is its 19th position in the
affordability pillar, which can hardly be considered a
weakness given that, among high-income countries,
ICT services in Finland are among the most affordable
(it comes in 5th, with Iceland and Sweden leading
the category). As set out in the government’s Digital
Agenda for 2011–2020, Finland has set in motion a
virtuous digital circle offering exceptionally conducive
institutional (3rd) and business (7th) environments, worldclass infrastructure (2nd), and arguably one of the best
educational systems in the world. As a result, ICTs are
ubiquitous and penetration rates are among the highest
globally. Ninety percent of households are equipped
with a computer and 90 percent of the population use
the Internet, mostly at broadband speeds. Finland is an
innovation hub, boasting the world’s highest number
of PCT applications per capita in the domain of ICTs,
and the third highest when considering all domains.
But the impact of ICTs extends well beyond innovation,
permeating the entire economy and society. For
instance, Finland ranks 1st on the indicator capturing the
extent to which ICTs create new services and products.
Singapore remains 2nd overall, while slightly
improving its score. The city-state ranks 1st in a record
four pillars, while Finland leads only two. Singapore
shows the way in the environment subindex, earning the
top spot in both the political and regulatory environment
pillar and the business and innovation environment
pillar. The extreme efficiency and business friendliness
of its institutional framework, strong intellectual property
protection, intense competition, and high university
enrollment rate lead to these outstanding outcomes.
Singapore’s readiness (11th) is also world class, thanks
to its excellent digital infrastructure (19th) and skill base
(2nd). The affordability of ICTs (55th) is Singapore’s

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 9

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

only relative weakness. Within such a conducive
environment, it is not surprising to see Singapore in 3rd
position in terms of ICT usage. Among other things,
the city boasts the world’s largest number of mobile
broadband subscriptions per capita, above 100 percent.
Furthermore, it leads the government usage pillar and
outperforms the Nordics, including Finland. Within this
pillar, Singapore achieves the maximum possible score
on the UN’s Government Online Services Index. Finally,
it ranks 1st on the indicator capturing the importance of
ICTs for government and 4th in assessing the success
of latter in promoting ICTs. In this context, it comes as
no surprise that Singapore leads the impact subindex,
appearing in the top 10 of each of the eight comprising
indicators.
Sweden (3rd) maintains its score but declines two
positions and abandons the top spot to Finland. Despite
this slight decline in rank, the country undeniably remains
one of the few truly knowledge-based economies of the
world. Aside from Finland, Sweden is the only country to
appear in the top 10 of nine pillars. Unlike its neighbor,
however, it does not lead in any of them. But such
remarkable consistency earns Sweden the top spot in
the usage subindex, reflecting the impressive level of ICT
adoption by businesses and the population at large. A
conducive environment, associated with a high degree
of readiness and widespread usage, largely contribute
to Sweden’s innovation capacity. The country boasts
the world’s highest number of PCT patent applications
per capita, ahead of Switzerland and Finland. Amid
such an outstanding assessment, a handful of indicators
call for attention: the average corporate tax rate is fairly
high—equivalent to 53 percent of profits (114th)—and
two indicators point to somewhat lengthy administrative
procedures.
The Netherlands climbs two ranks to 4th place,
thanks to small gains on most of the indicators. Its
performance is consistently strong judging by its
presence in the top 10 of seven pillars. Like the top three
economies discussed above, the Netherlands offers a
very conducive environment, placing 6th in the regulatory
and political environment pillar and 5th in the business
and innovation pillar, even though red tape remains
extensive. The country’s level of ICT readiness is also
very high (13th), thanks to a strong skill base and worldclass infrastructure, although it is somewhat undermined
by lower marks in the affordability pillar (60th). The
Netherlands earns excellent marks in terms of ICT usage
(5th, up four). In particular, the country boasts the world’s
2nd highest fixed broadband Internet subscription rate,
with 39 subscriptions per 100 population; moreover,
92 percent of the population use the Internet, the thirdlargest proportion. Ninety-four percent of households
are equipped with a computer and have Internet access;
on both these indicators, the Netherlands ranks 2nd
worldwide. Amid these positive results, the country’s

10 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

5th rank in the government usage pillar comes as a
disappointment. Finally, the Netherlands ranks 2nd in the
impact subindex, just behind Singapore. In particular, it
ranks in the top 10 of the indicator capturing the impact
of ICTs on the creation of new business models (5th),
on the offering of new products and services (8th), and
on access to basic services (5th). The country also
earns the maximum score in the UN’s E-Participation
Index. The high share of knowledge-intensive jobs in
the economy—almost 50 percent, the 3rd highest in the
world—and the country’s capacity for innovation further
contribute to its outstanding performance in the impact
subindex.
Progressing two ranks, Norway enters the top
five at 5th place. Overall, Norway’s performance is
outstanding, as reflected in its 2nd and 3rd place,
respectively, in the individual usage pillar (behind
Denmark) and in the infrastructure and digital content
pillar (behind Iceland and Finland). Yet, despite this
strong performance, the country’s results are slightly less
consistent than those observed in Finland and Sweden.
Unlike its neighbors, it ranks in the top 10 of four pillars
but does not lead any. Of particular concern is Norway’s
performance on the skills category, where it places
27th—far below Finland, Iceland, and Sweden.
Despite improving its score slightly, Switzerland
slips one notch to 6th overall. It features in the top 10
of seven pillars—the second highest total—and leads
the business usage pillar. The cost of ICTs is by far the
weakest aspect of the country’s performance, with
Switzerland ranking a mediocre 68th in the affordability
pillar. Despite full liberalization of ICT services, its average
mobile cellular tariffs are among the highest in the world,
even when accounting for differences in costs of living
(120th). Another area of relative weakness is the lack of
government efforts to promote ICTs. Switzerland ranks
31st in this category, far behind most of the Asian Tigers,
the Gulf countries, and the Nordics. This stands at odds
with the excellent results in the other two pillars of the
usage subindex, namely the business usage pillar (1st)
and the individual usage pillar (10th).
Up three notches, the United Kingdom (7th)
posts the biggest rank improvement among the top
10 economies. The country offers one of the most
conducive environments for ICT development, ranking
6th in this subindex. In particular, it offers a sound and
conducive political and regulatory environment (7th). The
country also boasts high levels of ICT adoption. ICTs
are pervasive among the population, businesses, and
the government. Yet in all these categories, it is almost
systematically outperformed by the Nordics, the Asian
Tigers, or both, signaling room for improvement. Finally,
the country is among the best when it comes to ICT
impacts, ranking 4th and 14th in terms of social and
economic impacts, respectively. Most noticeably, the
country ranks 1st for the role of ICTs in giving rise to new

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Table 1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013
				
	 Rank	
Country/Economy	
Score	

	1	
	2	
	3	
	4	
	5	
	6	
	 7	
	8	
	 9	
	 10	
	 11	
	12	
	13	
	 14	
	15	
	16	
	17	
	18	
	19	
	 20	
	21	
	22	
	23	
	24	
	 25	
	26	
	27	
	28	
	29	
	30	
	 31	
	32	
	33	
	34	
	35	
	 36	
	37	
	38	
	39	
	40	
	41	
	 42	
	43	
	44	
	45	
	46	
	47	
	48	
	49	
	50	
	51	
	52	
	 53	
	 54	
	55	
	56	
	 57	
	58	
	59	
	60	
	 61	
	62	
	63	
	64	
	65	
	66	
	 67	
	68	
	 69	
	 70	
	71	
	 72	

Finland	
Singapore	
Sweden	
Netherlands	
Norway	
Switzerland	
United Kingdom	
Denmark	
United States	
Taiwan, China	
Korea, Rep.	
Canada	
Germany	
Hong Kong SAR	
Israel	
Luxembourg	
Iceland	
Australia	
Austria	
New Zealand	
Japan	
Estonia	
Qatar	
Belgium	
United Arab Emirates	
France	
Ireland	
Malta	
Bahrain	
Malaysia	
Saudi Arabia	
Lithuania	
Portugal	
Chile	
Cyprus	
Puerto Rico	
Slovenia	
Spain	
Barbados	
Oman	
Latvia	
Czech Republic	
Kazakhstan	
Hungary	
Turkey	
Panama	
Jordan	
Montenegro	
Poland	
Italy	
Croatia	
Uruguay	
Costa Rica	
Russian Federation	
Mauritius	
Azerbaijan	
Brunei Darussalam	
China	
Mongolia	
Brazil	
Slovak Republic	
Kuwait	
Mexico	
Greece	
Georgia	
Colombia	
Macedonia, FYR	
India	
Sri Lanka	
South Africa	
Bulgaria	
Trinidad and Tobago	

5.98	
5.96	
5.91	
5.81	
5.66	
5.66	
5.64	
5.58	
5.57	
5.47	
5.46	
5.44	
5.43	
5.40	
5.39	
5.37	
5.31	
5.26	
5.25	
5.25	
5.24	
5.12	
5.10	
5.10	
5.07	
5.06	
5.05	
4.90	
4.83	
4.82	
4.82	
4.72	
4.67	
4.59	
4.59	
4.55	
4.53	
4.51	
4.49	
4.48	
4.43	
4.38	
4.32	
4.29	
4.22	
4.22	
4.20	
4.20	
4.19	
4.18	
4.17	
4.16	
4.15	
4.13	
4.12	
4.11	
4.11	
4.03	
4.01	
3.97	
3.95	
3.94	
3.93	
3.93	
3.93	
3.91	
3.89	
3.88	
3.88	
3.87	
3.87	
3.87	

2012 rank
(out of 142)	

3	
2	
1	
6	
7	
5	
10	
4	
8	
11	
12	
9	
16	
13	
20	
21	
15	
17	
19	
14	
18	
24	
28	
22	
30	
23	
25	
26	
27	
29	
34	
31	
33	
39	
32	
36	
37	
38	
35	
40	
41	
42	
55	
43	
52	
57	
47	
46	
49	
48	
45	
44	
58	
56	
53	
61	
54	
51	
63	
65	
64	
62	
76	
59	
88	
73	
66	
69	
71	
72	
70	
60	

Group*

ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
MENA
ADV
MENA
ADV
ADV
ADV
MENA
DEVASIA
MENA
CEE
ADV
LATAM
ADV
ADV
ADV
ADV
LATAM
MENA
CEE
ADV
CIS
CEE
CEE
LATAM
MENA
CEE
CEE
ADV
CEE
LATAM
LATAM
CIS
SSA
CIS
DEVASIA
DEVASIA
CIS
LATAM
ADV
MENA
LATAM
ADV
CIS
LATAM
CEE
DEVASIA
DEVASIA
SSA
CEE
LATAM

				
	 Rank	
Country/Economy	
Score	

	73	
	74	
	75	
	76	
	77	
	 78	
	79	
	80	
	 81	
	82	
	83	
	84	
	85	
	86	
	87	
	88	
	89	
	 90	
	91	
	92	
	 93	
	94	
	95	
	96	
	97	
	 98	
	99	
	100	
	 101	
	102	
	103	
	104	
	105	
	106	
	107	
	108	
	109	
	110	
	111	
	112	
	113	
	114	
	115	
	116	
	117	
	 118	
	119	
	 120	
	121	
	122	
	123	
	124	
	125	
	126	
	127	
	128	
	129	
	 130	
	131	
	132	
	133	
	134	
	135	
	136	
	137	
	138	
	139	
	140	
	141	
	142	
	 143	
	144	

Ukraine	
Thailand	
Romania	
Indonesia	
Moldova	
Bosnia and Herzegovina	
Seychelles	
Egypt	
Cape Verde	
Armenia	
Albania	
Vietnam	
Jamaica	
Philippines	
Serbia	
Rwanda	
Morocco	
Dominican Republic	
Ecuador	
Kenya	
El Salvador	
Lebanon	
Ghana	
Botswana	
Liberia	
Gambia, The	
Argentina	
Guyana	
Iran, Islamic Rep.	
Guatemala	
Peru	
Paraguay	
Pakistan	
Cambodia	
Senegal	
Venezuela	
Honduras	
Uganda	
Namibia	
Tajikistan	
Nigeria	
Bangladesh	
Zambia	
Zimbabwe	
Suriname	
Kyrgyz Republic	
Bolivia	
Côte d’Ivoire	
Gabon	
Mali	
Benin	
Cameroon	
Nicaragua	
Nepal	
Tanzania	
Ethiopia	
Malawi	
Burkina Faso	
Algeria	
Libya	
Mozambique	
Timor-Leste	
Mauritania	
Swaziland	
Madagascar	
Lesotho	
Yemen	
Guinea	
Haiti	
Chad	
Sierra Leone	
Burundi	

3.87	
3.86	
3.86	
3.84	
3.84	
3.80	
3.80	
3.78	
3.78	
3.76	
3.75	
3.74	
3.74	
3.73	
3.70	
3.68	
3.64	
3.62	
3.58	
3.54	
3.53	
3.53	
3.51	
3.50	
3.48	
3.47	
3.47	
3.45	
3.43	
3.42	
3.39	
3.37	
3.35	
3.34	
3.33	
3.33	
3.32	
3.30	
3.29	
3.29	
3.27	
3.22	
3.19	
3.17	
3.13	
3.09	
3.01	
3.00	
2.97	
2.97	
2.97	
2.95	
2.93	
2.93	
2.92	
2.85	
2.83	
2.80	
2.78	
2.77	
2.76	
2.72	
2.71	
2.69	
2.69	
2.68	
2.63	
2.61	
2.58	
2.53	
2.53	
2.30	

2012 rank
(out of 142)	

75	
77	
67	
80	
78	
84	
n/a	
79	
81	
94	
68	
83	
74	
86	
85	
82	
91	
87	
96	
93	
103	
95	
97	
89	
n/a	
101	
92	
90	
104	
98	
106	
111	
102	
108	
100	
107	
99	
110	
105	
114	
112	
113	
109	
124	
121	
115	
127	
122	
n/a	
126	
117	
125	
131	
128	
123	
130	
116	
135	
118	
n/a	
120	
132	
139	
136	
134	
133	
141	
n/a	
142	
138	
n/a	
137	

Group*

CIS
DEVASIA
CEE
DEVASIA
CIS
CEE
SSA
MENA
SSA
CIS
CEE
DEVASIA
LATAM
DEVASIA
CEE
SSA
MENA
LATAM
LATAM
SSA
LATAM
MENA
SSA
SSA
SSA
SSA
LATAM
LATAM
MENA
LATAM
LATAM
LATAM
DEVASIA
DEVASIA
SSA
LATAM
LATAM
SSA
SSA
CIS
SSA
DEVASIA
SSA
SSA
LATAM
CIS
LATAM
SSA
SSA
SSA
SSA
SSA
LATAM
DEVASIA
SSA
SSA
SSA
SSA
MENA
MENA
SSA
DEVASIA
MENA
SSA
SSA
SSA
MENA
SSA
LATAM
SSA
SSA
SSA

Note: Group classification follows the International Monetary Fund’s classification (situation as of October 2012).
* Groups: ADV = Advanced economies; CEE = Central and Eastern Europe; CIS = Commonwealth of Independent States and Mongolia; DEVASIA = Developing Asia; LATAM = Latin America and
the Caribbean; MENA = Middle East and North Africa; SSA = Sub-Saharan Africa.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2012 | 11

1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Table 2: Environment subindex and pillars

ENVIRONMENT SUBINDEX

	 Political and	
	regulatory	
	environment	

Business and
innovation
environment

ENVIRONMENT SUBINDEX

	 Political and	
	regulatory	
	environment	

Business and
innovation
environment

	
Rank	
Country/Economy	

Score	Rank	
Score	Rank	
Score

	
Rank	
Country/Economy	

Score	Rank	
Score	Rank	
Score

	 1	Singapore	
	
2	
New Zealand	
	 3	Finland	
	 4	Netherlands	
	 5	Sweden	
	
6	 United Kingdom	
	 7	Switzerland	
	
8	 Hong Kong SAR	
	 9	Norway	
	10	Canada	
	11	Australia	
	12	Denmark	
	13	Luxembourg	
	14	Qatar	
	15	Ireland	
	 16	 United States	
	17	Belgium	
	18	Malaysia	
	 19	 United Arab Emirates	
	20	Germany	
	21	Iceland	
	22	Austria	
	23	Israel	
	 24	 Taiwan, China	
	 25	 Saudi Arabia	
	26	Japan	
	27	France	
	28	Bahrain	
	29	Rwanda	
	30	Chile	
	31	Estonia	
	 32	 Korea, Rep.	
	 33	 South Africa	
	34	Cyprus	
	 35	 Puerto Rico	
	36	Barbados	
	37	Oman	
	38	Portugal	
	39	Malta	
	40	Spain	
	41	Mauritius	
	42	Jordan	
	43	Latvia	
	44	Slovenia	
	45	Lithuania	
	46	Turkey	
	47	Hungary	
	48	Panama	
	
49	
Czech Republic	
	50	Uruguay	
	51	Liberia	
	52	Montenegro	
	53	Seychelles	
	 54	 Gambia, The	
	55	Poland	
	56	Botswana	
	 57	 Brunei Darussalam	
	58	Namibia	
	 59	 Macedonia, FYR	
	60	Thailand	
	61	Zambia	
	
62	
Slovak Republic	
	 63	 Sri Lanka	
	64	Ghana	
	 65	 Cape Verde	
	66	Kazakhstan	
	67	Jamaica	
	68	Bulgaria	
	69	Kuwait	
	70	Croatia	
	71	China	
	 72	 Iran, Islamic Rep.	

5.89	
1	 5.97	
1	 5.80
5.65	2	
5.92	6	
5.38
5.59	
3	 5.84	
7	 5.34
5.53	
6	 5.67	
5	 5.40
5.48	
5	 5.67	
11	 5.30
5.48	
7	 5.62	
8	 5.33
5.46	
8	 5.60	
9	 5.32
5.44	
15	 5.27	
2	 5.61
5.42	
9	 5.52	
10	 5.31
5.42	
12	 5.36	
3	 5.47
5.29	
10	 5.39	
21	 5.19
5.27	
14	 5.30	
19	 5.23
5.25	
4	 5.77	
34	 4.73
5.19	
18	 5.10	
12	 5.29
5.17	
16	 5.24	
24	 5.10
5.11	
22	 4.94	
13	 5.29
5.09	
23	 4.94	
18	 5.23
5.07	
24	 4.88	
16	 5.25
5.05	
26	 4.84	
17	 5.25
5.05	
11	 5.38	
36	 4.71
5.02	
25	 4.88	
22	 5.15
4.99	
17	 5.21	
31	 4.78
4.97	
28	 4.69	
15	 5.26
4.97	
33	 4.51	
4	 5.44
4.87	
29	 4.68	
25	 5.07
4.86	
19	 5.04	
37	 4.68
4.84	
20	 5.02	
39	 4.66
4.83	
40	 4.39	
14	 5.27
4.81	
13	 5.30	
59	 4.32
4.80	
38	 4.40	
20	 5.20
4.71	
27	 4.84	
45	 4.59
4.70	
42	 4.25	
23	 5.14
4.69	
21	 5.00	
55	 4.38
4.67	
41	 4.35	
26	 4.99
4.65	
35	 4.46	
30	 4.83
4.63	
32	 4.59	
38	 4.67
4.61	
34	 4.47	
33	 4.75
4.57	
43	 4.24	
27	 4.91
4.53	
31	 4.59	
50	 4.47
4.49	
44	 4.14	
29	 4.85
4.48	
36	 4.42	
46	 4.53
4.35	
48	 4.05	
40	 4.65
4.33	
52	 4.02	
42	 4.65
4.33	
61	 3.81	
28	 4.85
4.31	
51	 4.02	
44	 4.60
4.31	
54	 3.97	
43	 4.64
4.23	
49	 4.04	
51	 4.42
4.22	
69	 3.69	
32	 4.76
4.21	46	
4.06	56	
4.36
4.20	
58	 3.91	
47	 4.50
4.17	
53	 4.01	
58	 4.34
4.16	
72	 3.67	
41	 4.65
4.14	
50	 4.03	
63	 4.25
4.13	
30	 4.68	
116	 3.58
4.10	
62	 3.80	
53	 4.41
4.10	
39	 4.40	
103	 3.80
4.09	
45	 4.11	
77	 4.07
4.04	
37	 4.41	
112	 3.67
4.04	
80	 3.59	
49	 4.48
4.00	
81	 3.59	
52	 4.42
3.99	
64	 3.77	
65	 4.22
3.99	70	
3.68	61	
4.30
3.95	
68	 3.70	
67	 4.21
3.95	
57	 3.92	
84	 3.99
3.94	
55	 3.97	
92	 3.91
3.93	
77	 3.63	
64	 4.23
3.93	
59	 3.87	
82	 4.00
3.91	
101	 3.31	
48	 4.50
3.90	
71	 3.67	
71	 4.13
3.90	
90	 3.48	
60	 4.32
3.88	
56	 3.97	
105	 3.78
3.86	
67	 3.70	
80	 4.03

	73	Georgia	
	74	Morocco	
	75	Mexico	
	76	Mongolia	
	77	Azerbaijan	
	78	Indonesia	
	79	Cambodia	
	80	Tajikistan	
	81	Guyana	
	 82	 Costa Rica	
	83	Italy	
	84	Albania	
	85	India	
	86	Lebanon	
	87	Greece	
	88	Uganda	
	89	Romania	
	90	Armenia	
	91	Peru	
	 92	 Bosnia and Herzegovina	
	 93	 Trinidad and Tobago	
	94	Nigeria	
	 95	 Dominican Republic	
	96	Colombia	
	97	Vietnam	
	98	Kenya	
	99	Egypt	
	100	 Philippines	
	101	 Senegal	
	 102	 Russian Federation	
	103	 Malawi	
	104	 Ethiopia	
	105	 Ukraine	
	106	 Serbia	
	107	 Brazil	
	108	 Tanzania	
	109	 Moldova	
	 110	 Burkina Faso	
	111	 Mali	
	112	 Honduras	
	113	 Ecuador	
	 114	 Sierra Leone	
	115	 Benin	
	116	 Pakistan	
	 117	 El Salvador	
	118	 Guatemala	
	119	 Cameroon	
	120	 Mozambique	
	121	 Lesotho	
	
122	
Nepal	
	123	 Gabon	
	124	 Paraguay	
	125	 Madagascar	
	126	 Argentina	
	 127	 Côte d’Ivoire	
	128	 Bangladesh	
	129	 Bolivia	
	130	 Libya	
	131	 Timor-Leste	
	132	 Zimbabwe	
	133	 Swaziland	
	134	 Nicaragua	
	135	 Suriname	
	136	 Mauritania	
	 137	 Kyrgyz Republic	
	138	 Yemen	
	139	 Guinea	
	140	 Venezuela	
	141	 Haiti	
	142	 Burundi	
	143	 Algeria	
	144	 Chad	

3.86	
100	 3.34	
54	 4.39
3.85	
73	 3.66	
79	 4.04
3.85	
79	 3.60	
74	 4.09
3.84	
93	 3.41	
62	 4.28
3.84	
66	 3.72	
86	 3.96
3.83	
82	 3.57	
73	 4.10
3.83	
65	 3.75	
91	 3.92
3.80	
47	 4.06	
121	 3.54
3.79	
84	 3.55	
81	 4.02
3.78	
74	 3.66	
94	 3.90
3.77	
95	 3.39	
69	 4.16
3.76	
102	 3.31	
66	 4.22
3.75	
75	 3.65	
99	 3.85
3.74	
133	 2.76	
35	 4.73
3.73	
103	 3.29	
68	 4.16
3.71	
60	 3.83	
115	 3.59
3.70	
106	 3.25	
70	 4.14
3.70	
104	 3.27	
72	 4.12
3.69	
121	 3.04	
57	 4.34
3.68	
97	 3.36	
83	 3.99
3.66	
91	 3.42	
93	 3.90
3.66	
89	 3.48	
101	 3.83
3.65	
109	 3.22	
75	 4.08
3.64	
92	 3.41	
95	 3.87
3.63	
85	 3.51	
108	 3.75
3.63	
87	 3.49	
106	 3.76
3.62	
96	 3.39	
98	 3.85
3.60	
98	 3.36	
100	 3.84
3.60	
114	 3.11	
76	 4.08
3.58	
108	 3.24	
90	 3.92
3.58	
63	 3.80	
131	 3.36
3.55	
83	 3.56	
119	 3.55
3.54	
124	 3.01	
78	 4.07
3.54	
115	 3.10	
85	 3.98
3.53	
78	 3.63	
126	 3.42
3.52	
76	 3.65	
128	 3.38
3.52	
117	 3.09	
88	 3.94
3.49	
88	 3.49	
122	 3.49
3.47	
99	 3.35	
114	 3.59
3.47	
111	 3.21	
109	 3.72
3.46	
118	 3.07	
96	 3.86
3.44	
86	 3.50	
127	 3.39
3.44	
94	 3.41	
123	 3.47
3.42	
123	 3.03	
102	 3.81
3.41	
129	 2.86	
87	 3.95
3.39	
127	 2.92	
97	 3.85
3.36	
126	 2.97	
107	 3.75
3.36	
105	 3.26	
124	 3.45
3.32	
116	 3.09	
118	 3.55
3.31	119	
3.05	117	
3.57
3.31	
107	 3.25	
129	 3.37
3.29	
138	 2.65	
89	 3.93
3.26	
134	 2.73	
104	 3.79
3.25	
131	 2.82	
110	 3.68
3.23	
128	 2.87	
113	 3.60
3.19	
137	 2.71	
111	 3.68
3.19	
110	 3.22	
137	 3.17
3.18	
130	 2.83	
120	 3.54
3.18	
125	 3.00	
130	 3.36
3.13	
120	 3.05	
135	 3.22
3.12	
112	 3.21	
138	 3.03
3.11	
122	 3.03	
136	 3.18
3.08	
135	 2.73	
125	 3.43
3.07	
113	 3.18	
140	 2.95
3.02	
136	 2.72	
132	 3.32
2.91	
140	 2.51	
133	 3.30
2.84	
132	 2.77	
141	 2.91
2.83	
142	 2.43	
134	 3.22
2.65	
143	 2.40	
142	 2.89
2.63	
144	 2.30	
139	 2.96
2.60	
141	 2.46	
143	 2.74
2.59	
139	 2.59	
144	 2.58

12 | The Global Information Technology Report 2012

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Table 3: Readiness subindex and pillars

READINESS SUBINDEX

	Infrastructure	
	 and digital	
	content	 Affordability	

Skills

	Infrastructure	
	 and digital	
	content	 Affordability	

READINESS SUBINDEX

Skills

Rank	 Country/Economy	
	

Score	 Rank	Score	 Rank	Score	 Rank	Score

Rank	 Country/Economy	
	

Score	 Rank	Score	 Rank	Score	 Rank	Score

	 1	 Finland	
	 2	 Iceland	
	 3	 Sweden	
	 4	 United States	
	 5	 Canada	
	 6	 Norway	
	 7	 Denmark	
	 8	 Switzerland	
	 9	 Austria	
	10	 United Kingdom	
	11	 Singapore	
	12	 Cyprus	
	13	 Netherlands	
	14	 Germany	
	15	 Belgium	
	16	 Ireland	
	17	 Taiwan, China	
	18	 Luxembourg	
	 19	 Hong Kong SAR	
	20	 Lithuania	
	21	 Malta	
	22	 Israel	
	 23	 Korea, Rep.	
	24	 Estonia	
	25	 Australia	
	26	 France	
	27	 Latvia	
	28	 Japan	
	29	 Ukraine	
	 30	 New Zealand	
	31	 Slovenia	
	32	 Russian Federation	
	 33	 Costa Rica	
	34	 Portugal	
	35	 Bahrain	
	36	 Turkey	
	37	 Poland	
	38	 Italy	
	39	 Saudi Arabia	
	 40	 United Arab Emirates	
	41	 Croatia	
	42	 Mongolia	
	 43	 Bosnia and Herzegovina	
	44	 Qatar	
	 45	 Trinidad and Tobago	
	46	 Moldova	
	47	 Greece	
	48	 Georgia	
	49	 Chile	
	50	 Kazakhstan	
	51	 Azerbaijan	
	52	 Romania	
	53	 Czech Republic	
	54	 Mauritius	
	55	 Jordan	
	56	 Oman	
	57	 Malaysia	
	58	 Kuwait	
	59	 Hungary	
	60	 Panama	
	61	 Spain	
	62	 Montenegro	
	63	 Thailand	
	 64	 Sri Lanka	
	65	 Barbados	
	66	 China	
	67	 Serbia	
	68	 India	
	69	 Puerto Rico	
	70	 Uruguay	
	71	 Indonesia	
	72	 Albania	

6.51	
2	6.87	
6.43	
1	6.87	
6.38	
4	6.83	
6.25	
7	6.80	
6.17	
5	6.81	
6.15	
3	6.84	
6.04	 14	6.40	
6.02	
8	6.71	
6.01	
9	6.60	
5.99	 13	6.42	
5.96	 19	6.20	
5.92	 21	6.08	
5.92	 11	6.48	
5.88	 10	6.50	
5.84	 18	6.20	
5.80	 16	6.24	
5.80	 22	5.99	
5.79	 12	6.43	
5.70	
27	 5.78	
5.67	 33	5.23	
5.65	 15	6.26	
5.59	 29	5.73	
5.56	
20	 6.13	
5.55	 26	5.79	
5.51	
6	 6.81	
5.40	 28	5.76	
5.38	
41	 4.83	
5.36	 24	5.84	
5.34	
74	 3.85	
5.33	
17	 6.22	
5.33	 25	5.82	
5.29	 43	4.72	
5.28	
76	 3.77	
5.27	 34	5.23	
5.27	 39	4.97	
5.27	 48	4.56	
5.26	 38	5.00	
5.25	 40	4.94	
5.23	 36	5.07	
5.23	
30	 5.46	
5.14	
57	 4.28	
5.13	 60	4.18	
5.08	
64	 4.13	
5.06	
35	 5.22	
5.02	
53	 4.41	
5.02	 55	4.31	
5.00	 46	4.62	
4.99	 68	4.03	
4.99	 61	4.18	
4.98	 63	4.14	
4.98	
75	 3.82	
4.98	 47	4.62	
4.97	 23	5.85	
4.97	
77	 3.73	
4.97	
81	 3.55	
4.92	 66	4.05	
4.87	 73	3.85	
4.87	 45	4.64	
4.87	 58	4.25	
4.86	 51	4.42	
4.85	 31	5.43	
4.82	 42	4.79	
4.78	
71	 3.95	
4.78	
101	 3.05	
4.76	 32	5.25	
4.76	 83	3.46	
4.71	 54	4.39	
4.70	 111	 2.80	
4.70	 52	4.42	
4.66	 49	4.50	
4.66	
89	 3.26	
4.62	
79	 3.60	

	73	 Armenia	
	74	 Brazil	
	75	 Bulgaria	
	76	 Mexico	
	77	 Jamaica	
	78	 Paraguay	
	79	 Vietnam	
	80	 Colombia	
	81	 Venezuela	
	82	 Egypt	
	 83	 Cape Verde	
	84	 Macedonia, FYR	
	85	 Philippines	
	86	 Lebanon	
	87	 Zimbabwe	
	88	 Morocco	
	89	 Ecuador	
	90	 El Salvador	
	91	 Bangladesh	
	92	 Slovak Republic	
	93	 Pakistan	
	 94	 Brunei Darussalam	
	95	 South Africa	
	96	 Algeria	
	97	 Argentina	
	98	 Dominican Republic	
	99	 Liberia	
	
100	 Suriname	
	101	 Ghana	
	102	 Honduras	
	
103	 Kyrgyz Republic	
	104	 Uganda	
	
105	 Guyana	
	
106	 Seychelles	
	
107	 Botswana	
	108	 Guatemala	
	109	 Iran, Islamic Rep.	
	110	 Kenya	
	
111	 Cambodia	
	112	 Nepal	
	113	 Haiti	
	114	 Gabon	
	
115	 Namibia	
	
116	 Rwanda	
	
117	 Yemen	
	
118	 Tajikistan	
	119	 Peru	
	
120	 Senegal	
	
121	 Nicaragua	
	
122	 Côte d’Ivoire	
	
123	 Nigeria	
	124	 Bolivia	
	
125	 Gambia, The	
	126	 Libya	
	
127	 Chad	
	
128	 Benin	
	
129	 Zambia	
	
130	 Swaziland	
	131	 Cameroon	
	
132	 Guinea	
	133	 Mauritania	
	
134	 Timor-Leste	
	
135	 Tanzania	
	
136	 Lesotho	
	137	 Madagascar	
	
138	 Burundi	
	139	 Malawi	
	
140	 Ethiopia	
	
141	 Mali	
	
142	 Burkina Faso	
	
143	 Mozambique	
	
144	 Sierra Leone	

4.60	
4.53	
4.53	
4.47	
4.46	
4.44	
4.43	
4.41	
4.41	
4.41	
4.40	
4.36	
4.36	
4.29	
4.28	
4.28	
4.26	
4.16	
4.14	
4.12	
4.11	
4.06	
4.04	
4.00	
3.98	
3.94	
3.93	
3.92	
3.89	
3.86	
3.78	
3.76	
3.75	
3.73	
3.72	
3.72	
3.69	
3.68	
3.49	
3.33	
3.33	
3.33	
3.27	
3.25	
3.24	
3.22	
3.08	
3.07	
3.07	
3.07	
3.02	
3.01	
3.00	
2.91	
2.90	
2.85	
2.85	
2.84	
2.80	
2.80	
2.80	
2.71	
2.70	
2.68	
2.57	
2.50	
2.41	
2.34	
2.32	
2.27	
2.22	
1.74	

19	6.22	
1	6.45
5	6.55	
9	5.87
7	6.48	 10	5.84
15	6.31	 20	5.62
43	5.69	
6	6.02
23	6.09	 27	5.52
22	6.09	 18	5.63
68	5.25	
4	6.10
37	5.89	 24	5.55
35	5.90	 15	5.66
55	5.50	
2	6.18
28	6.02	 16	5.66
60	5.39	
8	5.89
53	5.52	 19	5.62
70	5.20	
3	6.11
61	5.38	 12	5.78
54	5.50	
7	5.91
48	5.61	 33	5.33
17	 6.28	
52	 5.05
14	6.32	 29	5.46
72	5.15	 26	5.53
44	5.66	 32	5.37
83	 4.88	
14	 5.67
56	5.44	 30	5.43
97	 4.07	 17	 5.64
86	4.84	 21	5.59
16	 6.30	 54	 5.01
92	4.50	 13	5.73
2	 6.88	 35	 5.30
100	 3.96	
11	 5.81
85	4.86	 36	5.30
18	6.23	 61	4.91
6	 6.52	
23	 5.56
57	5.44	 48	5.14
46	5.64	 44	5.20
4	6.59	 81	4.65
47	5.63	 47	5.15
49	5.61	 45	5.18
65	5.35	 37	5.29
89	 4.70	
25	 5.54
26	 6.03	 51	 5.09
10	6.43	 72	4.78
31	 5.99	
49	 5.11
103	 3.92	
5	 6.04
58	 5.40	
39	 5.25
25	6.06	 78	4.69
73	5.13	 41	5.25
11	6.39	 83	4.56
33	5.94	 66	4.85
36	5.90	 62	4.91
20	 6.16	 57	 4.96
62	5.36	 58	4.95
99	3.97	 50	5.10
12	 6.36	 67	 4.82
27	 6.03	 34	 5.33
34	5.90	 68	4.81
50	5.58	 43	5.20
71	5.18	 71	4.79
74	5.10	 42	5.24
32	5.99	 99	4.17
102	3.93	 46	5.18
93	4.42	 40	5.25
45	 5.64	 76	 4.75
29	 6.02	
38	 5.26
111	3.48	 22	5.56
40	5.82	 53	5.01
84	4.87	 65	4.86
1	 7.00	 95	 4.31
n/a	
n/a	
55	4.97
80	4.94	 85	4.53
39	 5.82	 63	 4.88
66	 5.29	 56	 4.96

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

72	3.88	
62	4.16	
37	 5.03	
82	 3.53	
65	4.10	
67	 4.04	
114	 2.76	
96	 3.18	
85	 3.42	
93	3.19	
103	 3.04	
69	3.99	
84	3.42	
88	 3.27	
129	 2.18	
95	3.18	
78	3.71	
92	3.20	
109	 2.84	
56	4.29	
104	3.00	
50	 4.47	
59	4.21	
119	 2.62	
70	3.99	
98	3.08	
142	 1.57	
118	2.66	
121	 2.51	
107	 2.88	
90	3.26	
106	 2.88	
94	3.19	
44	4.67	
100	3.06	
116	 2.69	
97	 3.13	
110	 2.84	
87	3.31	
140	 1.62	
144	 1.53	
125	 2.32	
102	3.04	
105	2.98	
123	2.43	
126	2.30	
86	 3.31	
108	2.86	
91	3.25	
99	3.07	
115	2.70	
138	 1.74	
117	2.68	
80	 3.56	
127	2.22	
113	2.79	
133	2.02	
112	2.80	
137	 1.75	
132	2.10	
134	 1.95	
122	2.48	
124	2.36	
130	2.16	
143	 1.56	
128	2.20	
120	 2.58	
141	1.62	
139	1.65	
136	1.79	
135	1.81	
131	2.11	

77	4.97	
76	5.01	
106	 3.76	
63	 5.36	
87	4.81	
52	 5.53	
38	 5.86	
67	 5.29	
51	 5.55	
8	6.47	
42	 5.72	
94	4.40	
82	4.89	
95	 4.12	
9	 6.47	
30	6.02	
91	4.54	
41	5.72	
13	 6.34	
113	3.32	
21	6.15	
135	 2.33	
104	3.91	
64	 5.35	
114	3.29	
79	4.94	
3	 6.78	
90	4.64	
59	 5.40	
78	 4.96	
107	3.67	
75	 5.07	
110	3.50	
139	1.61	
109	3.57	
81	 4.92	
115	 3.13	
105	 3.81	
112	3.47	
69	 5.20	
24	 6.09	
96	 4.11	
117	3.09	
116	3.12	
88	4.75	
131	2.49	
138	 1.86	
118	3.07	
136	2.31	
119	2.96	
120	2.96	
122	 2.89	
124	2.81	
141	 1.00	
98	4.06	
133	2.39	
127	2.69	
137	2.03	
125	 2.79	
108	3.58	
101	 3.94	
123	2.82	
130	2.58	
134	2.35	
121	 2.90	
n/a	
n/a	
140	 1.17	
126	2.78	
128	2.67	
129	2.59	
132	2.42	
141	1.00	

59	4.94
91	4.42
70	 4.79
87	 4.51
88	4.48
107	 3.74
79	 4.68
74	 4.77
96	 4.26
115	3.56
90	 4.43
77	4.70
73	4.77
28	 5.49
98	 4.18
114	3.63
84	4.54
117	3.55
128	 3.24
75	4.75
129	3.19
31	 5.38
102	4.01
101	 4.02
80	4.66
105	3.79
122	 3.42
89	4.46
106	 3.77
108	 3.72
92	4.40
125	 3.33
82	4.56
60	4.92
86	4.52
118	 3.53
69	 4.79
93	 4.39
109	3.68
131	 3.17
143	 2.37
116	 3.55
111	3.67
113	3.64
138	2.54
64	4.86
100	 4.07
126	3.30
112	3.64
130	3.17
123	3.40
94	 4.39
120	3.50
97	 4.18
141	2.43
124	3.39
104	3.84
110	3.68
103	 3.87
135	2.73
139	 2.50
133	2.82
132	3.16
119	3.53
127	 3.26
134	2.79
121	 3.47
137	2.61
136	2.63
142	2.43
140	2.44
144	2.10

The Global Information Technology Report 2012 | 13

1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Table 4: Usage subindex and pillars
		
	Individual	
	usage	

USAGE SUBINDEX

Business	 Governent
usage	
usage

USAGE SUBINDEX

		
	Individual	
	usage	

Business	 Governent
usage	
usage

Rank	 Country/Economy	
	

Score	 Rank	Score	 Rank	Score	 Rank	Score

Rank	 Country/Economy	
	

Score	 Rank	Score	 Rank	Score	 Rank	Score

	 1	 Sweden	
	 2	 Finland	
	 3	 Singapore	
	 4	 Korea, Rep.	
	 5	 Netherlands	
	 6	 Denmark	
	 7	 Norway	
	 8	 Switzerland	
	 9	 Japan	
	10	 Luxembourg	
	11	 United Kingdom	
	12	 Germany	
	13	 United States	
	14	 Israel	
	15	 Taiwan, China	
	16	 Qatar	
	17	 Austria	
	18	 Australia	
	19	 New Zealand	
	 20	 Hong Kong SAR	
	21	 Iceland	
	22	 France	
	 23	 United Arab Emirates	
	24	 Canada	
	25	 Estonia	
	26	 Belgium	
	27	 Malta	
	28	 Ireland	
	29	 Malaysia	
	30	 Bahrain	
	31	 Saudi Arabia	
	32	 Portugal	
	33	 Spain	
	34	 Barbados	
	35	 Slovenia	
	36	 Lithuania	
	37	 Oman	
	 38	 Czech Republic	
	39	 Puerto Rico	
	40	 Chile	
	41	 Brunei Darussalam	
	42	 Kazakhstan	
	43	 Latvia	
	44	 Brazil	
	45	 Italy	
	46	 Hungary	
	47	 Croatia	
	48	 Cyprus	
	49	 Slovak Republic	
	50	 Poland	
	51	 Panama	
	52	 Azerbaijan	
	53	 Montenegro	
	54	 Uruguay	
	55	 Kuwait	
	56	 Russian Federation	
	57	 Seychelles	
	58	 China	
	59	 Costa Rica	
	60	 Jordan	
	61	 Macedonia, FYR	
	62	 Turkey	
	63	 Bulgaria	
	64	 Colombia	
	65	 Mauritius	
	66	 Mexico	
	 67	 Trinidad and Tobago	
	68	 Greece	
	69	 Romania	
	70	 Indonesia	
	71	 Morocco	
	72	 South Africa	

6.00	
5.97	
5.86	
5.86	
5.78	
5.75	
5.75	
5.70	
5.62	
5.62	
5.59	
5.57	
5.51	
5.45	
5.45	
5.35	
5.23	
5.22	
5.20	
5.18	
5.15	
5.13	
5.07	
5.04	
5.01	
4.97	
4.92	
4.87	
4.83	
4.83	
4.74	
4.50	
4.46	
4.44	
4.43	
4.41	
4.36	
4.35	
4.31	
4.24	
4.21	
4.18	
4.16	
4.08	
4.08	
4.07	
4.06	
4.05	
4.04	
4.01	
4.00	
3.99	
3.95	
3.94	
3.94	
3.91	
3.85	
3.80	
3.79	
3.79	
3.78	
3.78	
3.75	
3.75	
3.71	
3.68	
3.67	
3.66	
3.66	
3.58	
3.55	
3.53	

	73	 Vietnam	
	74	 Argentina	
	75	 Egypt	
	76	 Philippines	
	77	 Georgia	
	78	 Serbia	
	79	 Armenia	
	80	 Mongolia	
	81	 India	
	82	 Moldova	
	83	 Thailand	
	84	 Kenya	
	85	 Albania	
	86	 Dominican Republic	
	87	 Bosnia and Herzegovina	
	88	 Ecuador	
	89	 Jamaica	
	 90	 Sri Lanka	
	91	 Peru	
	 92	 Gambia, The	
	93	 Guatemala	
	94	 El Salvador	
	95	 Ukraine	
	96	 Cape Verde	
	97	 Guyana	
	98	 Lebanon	
	99	 Botswana	
	
100	 Senegal	
	
101	 Namibia	
	
102	 Ghana	
	
103	 Tajikistan	
	
104	 Cambodia	
	
105	 Venezuela	
	106	 Iran, Islamic Rep.	
	107	 Rwanda	
	
108	 Nigeria	
	
109	 Zambia	
	
110	 Paraguay	
	
111	 Honduras	
	
112	 Suriname	
	
113	 Bolivia	
	
114	 Liberia	
	
115	 Mali	
	
116	 Côte d’Ivoire	
	
117	 Uganda	
	
118	 Pakistan	
	
119	 Cameroon	
	
120	 Tanzania	
	121	 Bangladesh	
	
122	 Gabon	
	
123	 Kyrgyz Republic	
	
124	 Nicaragua	
	
125	 Zimbabwe	
	
126	
Burkina Faso	
	
127	 Benin	
	128	 Mozambique	
	
129	 Libya	
	130	 Ethiopia	
	131	 Malawi	
	
132	 Mauritania	
	
133	 Madagascar	
	134	 Nepal	
	135	 Lesotho	
	136	 Timor-Leste	
	137	 Sierra Leone	
	
138	 Swaziland	
	139	 Guinea	
	
140	 Algeria	
	
141	 Chad	
	
142	 Yemen	
	
143	 Haiti	
	
144	 Burundi	

3.52	 78	3.08	 88	3.30	 62	4.16
3.51	 60	3.92	 90	3.28	 117	3.35
3.49	 69	3.43	 108	3.11	 80	3.92
3.46	
95	 2.69	
47	 3.65	 67	 4.04
3.46	 75	3.16	 112	3.07	 63	4.14
3.45	
55	 4.01	 135	 2.70	 104	 3.64
3.44	 77	3.08	 89	3.30	 78	3.94
3.41	
90	 2.79	
78	 3.39	 66	 4.06
3.41	 121	 1.97	
45	 3.70	 40	 4.55
3.39	 72	3.36	 129	2.86	 76	3.97
3.39	 88	2.84	 63	3.50	 86	3.84
3.38	 115	 2.08	
53	 3.62	 44	 4.43
3.37	 84	2.93	 79	3.38	 95	3.79
3.36	 93	2.73	 82	3.36	 72	3.99
3.34	 73	3.32	 104	3.15	 111	3.55
3.33	 85	2.92	 92	3.27	 94	3.79
3.32	 86	2.89	 86	3.32	 97	3.76
3.32	
110	 2.19	
57	 3.57	
57	 4.20
3.32	 87	2.89	 93	3.26	 90	3.81
3.32	
118	 2.03	
50	 3.64	
53	 4.28
3.28	 96	2.67	 49	3.65	 114	3.51
3.27	 91	2.79	 100	3.20	 88	3.83
3.27	 74	3.17	 84	3.35	 121	3.28
3.25	 103	2.37	 122	2.96	 45	4.41
3.24	 106	2.25	 54	3.60	 85	3.87
3.21	 63	3.70	 116	3.02	 134	2.90
3.20	 98	2.57	 96	3.23	 91	3.80
3.16	 113	2.09	 66	3.47	 82	3.91
3.12	 99	2.53	 76	3.40	 116	3.43
3.12	 102	2.40	 103	3.15	 89	3.81
3.12	 107	2.20	 87	3.32	 87	3.83
3.09	 112	2.14	 70	3.44	 103	3.69
3.07	 80	3.02	 120	2.97	 126	3.21
3.06	
108	 2.20	
119	 2.99	
71	 4.00
3.05	
139	 1.50	
67	 3.46	
59	 4.20
3.04	 111	2.16	 68	3.45	 113	3.52
3.04	 122	1.84	 80	3.36	 79	3.92
3.01	 97	2.66	 110	3.09	 123	3.27
3.01	 101	2.45	 75	3.40	 127	3.17
2.97	 79	3.07	 113	3.06	 138	2.78
2.96	 104	2.34	 109	3.09	 115	3.45
2.93	 126	1.74	 69	3.45	 109	3.59
2.93	 125	1.76	 114	3.06	 77	3.96
2.92	 117	2.07	 105	3.14	 112	3.54
2.89	 131	1.65	 106	3.13	 84	3.90
2.89	 123	1.83	 91	3.27	 110	3.56
2.86	 130	1.65	 98	3.21	 101	3.71
2.86	 127	1.68	 102	3.16	 99	3.73
2.83	
128	 1.65	
132	 2.81	
68	 4.03
2.83	 105	2.34	 130	2.85	 120	3.30
2.81	 94	2.70	 138	2.65	 130	3.08
2.76	 120	1.98	 111	3.07	 125	3.21
2.72	 114	2.09	 115	3.03	 132	3.05
2.71	140	
1.49	131	
2.83	92	
3.80
2.70	 109	2.19	 117	3.01	 135	2.90
2.66	
141	 1.45	
125	 2.90	 106	 3.62
2.65	 89	2.80	 136	2.69	 143	2.44
2.62	
143	 1.34	
140	 2.62	
83	 3.91
2.60	
136	 1.56	
121	 2.97	 122	 3.27
2.58	 116	2.08	 126	2.88	 137	2.79
2.55	 132	1.60	 118	3.00	 131	3.05
2.54	
137	 1.54	
127	 2.87	 124	 3.21
2.52	
129	 1.65	
133	 2.79	 128	 3.12
2.51	
124	 1.80	
139	 2.63	 129	 3.11
2.50	
133	 1.59	
141	 2.59	 119	 3.33
2.49	 119	1.98	 124	2.90	 140	2.58
2.47	
138	 1.53	
128	 2.86	 133	 3.02
2.42	 100	2.46	 144	2.15	 139	2.65
2.34	 142	1.35	 134	2.79	 136	2.89
2.27	 135	1.57	 137	2.68	 141	2.56
2.17	 134	1.58	 142	2.56	 144	2.36
2.04	 144	1.33	 143	2.31	 142	2.47

3	6.53	
4	5.89	
8	5.56
6	6.40	
3	5.97	 10	5.55
11	6.13	
14	5.18	
1	6.29
7	6.39	 11	5.31	
3	5.89
5	6.42	
8	5.53	 15	5.39
1	6.65	
7	5.56	 24	5.05
2	6.62	 12	5.23	 14	5.39
10	6.15	
1	6.11	 31	4.86
13	5.88	
2	6.01	 27	4.98
4	 6.47	
16	 4.97	 13	 5.41
9	6.17	
15	5.05	
9	5.55
14	5.88	
5	5.81	 26	5.01
18	5.66	 10	5.37	 11	5.49
28	5.43	
6	5.67	 20	5.23
20	5.66	 13	5.19	 12	5.49
16	5.82	 27	4.47	
5	5.75
19	5.66	
9	5.39	 35	4.65
15	5.88	 25	4.54	 19	5.25
17	5.78	 23	4.54	 18	5.29
12	 5.91	
19	 4.77	
30	 4.87
8	6.35	 20	4.77	 50	4.32
24	5.52	 18	4.86	 25	5.02
36	 4.90	
28	 4.31	
2	 5.99
27	5.44	 24	4.54	 22	5.14
23	5.53	 29	4.13	 17	5.36
25	5.48	 17	4.94	 41	4.48
22	5.59	 38	3.81	 16	5.37
21	5.59	 22	4.58	 43	4.44
46	4.44	 26	4.49	
7	5.57
30	5.13	 56	3.59	
4	5.78
47	4.39	 30	4.10	
6	5.73
41	4.71	 36	3.86	 28	4.93
31	 5.12	
41	 3.80	 42	 4.46
26	 5.48	
43	 3.72	 64	 4.13
32	 5.06	
32	 3.94	 52	 4.30
37	4.86	 42	3.75	 36	4.60
50	 4.31	
52	 3.62	 21	 5.14
29	 5.18	
31	 4.08	
93	 3.79
59	3.94	 21	4.59	 46	4.40
53	4.12	 44	3.71	 29	4.90
49	4.32	 59	3.56	 33	4.75
54	 4.06	
85	 3.34	 23	 5.13
38	4.84	 51	3.64	 75	3.99
58	3.97	 34	3.90	 48	4.38
34	4.93	 46	3.68	 108	3.62
42	4.67	 61	3.50	 69	4.03
39	4.83	 81	3.36	 73	3.99
44	4.52	 60	3.51	 65	4.13
35	4.92	 65	3.47	 100	3.71
33	5.00	 74	3.41	 107	3.62
65	3.59	 39	3.81	 37	4.60
64	3.68	 58	3.57	 34	4.71
56	4.01	 71	3.43	 47	4.39
51	4.17	 72	3.43	 55	4.22
40	4.83	 83	3.35	 105	3.63
45	4.51	 95	3.24	 74	3.99
62	3.76	 64	3.48	 51	4.31
83	 2.96	
35	 3.86	 38	 4.58
71	3.37	 37	3.84	 61	4.17
66	3.55	 55	3.59	 56	4.22
52	4.13	 123	2.94	 54	4.27
68	3.51	 48	3.65	 60	4.18
48	4.32	 101	3.18	 98	3.74
76	3.09	 77	3.39	 32	4.77
70	3.38	 73	3.42	 49	4.34
82	 2.98	
62	 3.50	 39	 4.55
61	 3.77	
97	 3.23	
70	 4.01
43	4.53	 107	3.11	 118	3.34
57	3.97	 94	3.24	 96	3.76
92	 2.74	
40	 3.81	 58	 4.20
67	3.54	 99	3.20	 81	3.92
81	2.99	 33	3.91	 102	3.70

14 | The Global Information Technology Report 2012

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Table 5: Impact subindex and pillars

IMPACT SUBINDEX

	
Economic 	
	impacts	

Social
impacts

	
Economic 	
	impacts	

IMPACT SUBINDEX

Social
impacts

	
Rank	
Country/Economy	

Score	Rank	
Score	Rank	
Score

	
Rank	
Country/Economy	

Score	Rank	
Score	Rank	
Score

	 1	Singapore	
	 2	Netherlands	
	
3	
Finland	
	 4	Sweden	
	
5	 Korea, Rep.	
	
6	 Taiwan, China	
	 7	Israel	
	
8	 United Kingdom	
	 9	Switzerland	
	 10	 United States	
	11	Norway	
	 12	 Hong Kong SAR	
	13	Denmark	
	14	Germany	
	15	Estonia	
	16	Canada	
	17	Japan	
	18	Australia	
	 19	 United Arab Emirates	
	20	France	
	21	Luxembourg	
	 22	 New Zealand	
	23	Qatar	
	24	Austria	
	25	Iceland	
	 26	 Puerto Rico	
	27	Malaysia	
	28	Belgium	
	29	Malta	
	30	Lithuania	
	 31	 Saudi Arabia	
	32	Bahrain	
	33	Ireland	
	34	Chile	
	35	Portugal	
	36	Spain	
	37	Kazakhstan	
	38	Barbados	
	 39	 Brunei Darussalam	
	40	Slovenia	
	41	Oman	
	42	Hungary	
	 43	 Czech Republic	
	44	Montenegro	
	45	Latvia	
	46	Uruguay	
	47	Colombia	
	48	Panama	
	 49	 Costa Rica	
	50	Brazil	
	51	Cyprus	
	52	Mexico	
	 53	 Russian Federation	
	54	Jordan	
	55	China	
	56	India	
	 57	 Slovak Republic	
	58	Mongolia	
	59	Azerbaijan	
	60	Italy	
	
61	
Rwanda	
	62	Egypt	
	63	Croatia	
	64	Turkey	
	 65	 Cape Verde	
	 66	 Dominican Republic	
	67	Senegal	
	68	Philippines	
	69	Seychelles	
	 70	 Sri Lanka	
	71	Kenya	
	72	Peru	

6.13	
2	 5.98	
1	 6.28
6.00	
4	 5.93	
3	 6.08
5.86	1	
5.99	9	
5.74
5.77	
3	 5.93	
10	 5.62
5.71	
12	 5.24	
2	 6.19
5.65	
7	 5.49	
6	 5.82
5.54	
6	 5.63	
14	 5.45
5.48	
14	 5.09	
4	 5.86
5.44	
5	 5.80	
24	 5.08
5.43	
11	 5.32	
11	 5.55
5.32	
13	 5.17	
13	 5.47
5.28	
15	 5.03	
12	 5.54
5.25	
9	 5.33	
19	 5.18
5.22	
10	 5.32	
22	 5.12
5.19	
23	 4.55	
5	 5.83
5.14	
16	 4.93	
17	 5.35
5.12	
8	 5.36	
31	 4.88
5.01	
20	 4.61	
15	 5.41
4.94	
28	 4.13	
7	 5.75
4.86	
17	 4.92	
32	 4.79
4.81	
25	 4.47	
20	 5.15
4.81	
26	 4.47	
21	 5.15
4.80	
33	 3.85	
8	 5.75
4.76	
22	 4.57	
29	 4.95
4.65	
24	 4.54	
33	 4.76
4.56	
21	 4.58	
37	 4.53
4.52	
29	 4.02	
25	 5.02
4.51	
19	 4.67	
41	 4.34
4.50	
31	 4.00	
26	 5.01
4.49	
30	 4.01	
28	 4.96
4.43	
42	 3.64	
18	 5.22
4.39	
52	 3.39	
16	 5.38
4.36	
18	 4.77	
56	 3.96
4.35	
35	 3.73	
27	 4.97
4.32	
36	 3.70	
30	 4.94
4.22	
32	 3.86	
36	 4.58
4.18	
66	 3.28	
23	 5.09
4.13	
27	 4.24	
52	 4.03
4.07	
48	 3.43	
35	 4.71
4.05	
34	 3.82	
46	 4.27
4.04	
61	 3.34	
34	 4.75
4.00	
41	 3.66	
40	 4.35
3.97	
40	 3.66	
44	 4.28
3.87	
39	 3.67	
49	 4.08
3.87	
38	 3.68	
51	 4.06
3.83	
53	 3.39	
45	 4.27
3.83	
70	 3.24	
38	 4.42
3.80	
73	 3.22	
39	 4.38
3.75	
46	 3.50	
53	 3.99
3.74	
50	 3.40	
48	 4.08
3.73	
45	 3.50	
55	 3.97
3.72	
72	 3.23	
47	 4.22
3.72	
54	 3.38	
50	 4.06
3.70	
49	 3.42	
54	 3.98
3.69	
83	 3.08	
42	 4.29
3.67	
43	 3.63	
73	 3.71
3.67	
44	 3.54	
66	 3.80
3.65	
86	 3.02	
43	 4.29
3.65	
59	 3.35	
57	 3.94
3.63	
37	 3.69	
80	 3.57
3.62	58	
3.35	61	
3.88
3.60	
67	 3.28	
58	 3.93
3.59	
55	 3.38	
68	 3.79
3.54	
68	 3.26	
63	 3.82
3.53	
76	 3.20	
62	 3.86
3.53	
79	 3.16	
59	 3.89
3.51	
60	 3.35	
75	 3.67
3.50	
56	 3.37	
76	 3.62
3.49	
78	 3.19	
69	 3.78
3.47	
62	 3.33	
77	 3.62
3.47	
47	 3.46	
84	 3.47
3.45	
77	 3.20	
74	 3.70

	 73	 Gambia, The	
	74	Moldova	
	75	Vietnam	
	76	Georgia	
	77	Poland	
	 78	 Macedonia, FYR	
	79	Nigeria	
	80	Mauritius	
	81	Ukraine	
	82	Greece	
	83	Armenia	
	84	Guatemala	
	 85	 El Salvador	
	86	Indonesia	
	87	Bulgaria	
	88	Thailand	
	89	Albania	
	90	Ecuador	
	91	Jamaica	
	 92	 South Africa	
	93	Mali	
	94	Argentina	
	 95	 Trinidad and Tobago	
	 96	 Bosnia and Herzegovina	
	97	Romania	
	98	Serbia	
	 99	 Iran, Islamic Rep.	
	100	 Ghana	
	101	 Kuwait	
	102	 Tajikistan	
	103	 Guyana	
	104	 Venezuela	
	105	 Botswana	
	106	 Pakistan	
	107	 Cambodia	
	108	 Honduras	
	109	 Liberia	
	110	 Ethiopia	
	111	 Morocco	
	112	 Zambia	
	113	 Benin	
	114	 Bolivia	
	115	 Uganda	
	116	 Lebanon	
	117	 Mozambique	
	118	 Nicaragua	
	119	 Cameroon	
	 120	 Côte d’Ivoire	
	121	 Paraguay	
	122	 Namibia	
	 123	 Kyrgyz Republic	
	124	 Malawi	
	 125	 Burkina Faso	
	126	 Bangladesh	
	127	 Tanzania	
	128	 Zimbabwe	
	129	 Nepal	
	130	 Suriname	
	131	 Timor-Leste	
	132	 Gabon	
	 133	 Sierra Leone	
	134	 Mauritania	
	135	 Madagascar	
	136	 Guinea	
	137	 Swaziland	
	138	 Libya	
	139	 Chad	
	140	 Lesotho	
	141	 Haiti	
	142	 Algeria	
	143	 Yemen	
	144	 Burundi	

3.44	
3.43	
3.39	
3.39	
3.38	
3.36	
3.34	
3.33	
3.32	
3.31	
3.31	
3.31	
3.30	
3.30	
3.30	
3.28	
3.26	
3.25	
3.23	
3.23	
3.17	
3.14	
3.12	
3.12	
3.12	
3.09	
3.09	
3.08	
3.04	
3.03	
3.02	
3.01	
2.97	
2.97	
2.94	
2.94	
2.91	
2.90	
2.89	
2.89	
2.88	
2.88	
2.86	
2.86	
2.82	
2.80	
2.78	
2.77	
2.75	
2.75	
2.75	
2.73	
2.72	
2.71	
2.61	
2.55	
2.54	
2.53	
2.50	
2.42	
2.42	
2.39	
2.38	
2.33	
2.33	
2.32	
2.30	
2.21	
2.20	
2.11	
2.08	
2.06	

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

63	 3.31	
84	 3.05	
89	 2.97	
97	 2.90	
64	 3.31	
92	 2.96	
65	 3.28	
82	 3.10	
74	 3.21	
80	 3.12	
69	 3.26	
57	 3.36	
103	 2.85	
101	 2.85	
75	 3.20	
108	 2.77	
88	 2.99	
90	 2.97	
81	 3.10	
51	 3.40	
71	 3.23	
91	 2.96	
100	 2.87	
96	 2.90	
94	 2.92	
105	 2.83	
106	 2.82	
85	 3.04	
125	 2.60	
111	 2.75	
107	 2.80	
95	 2.91	
114	 2.73	
99	 2.88	
124	 2.62	
98	 2.89	
110	 2.75	
127	 2.53	
122	 2.65	
115	 2.71	
87	 3.01	
123	 2.62	
121	 2.65	
102	 2.85	
116	 2.71	
120	 2.67	
104	 2.84	
93	 2.93	
109	 2.76	
117	 2.70	
126	 2.56	
112	 2.74	
118	 2.70	
128	 2.52	
136	 2.34	
119	 2.68	
135	 2.36	
113	 2.74	
132	 2.38	
129	 2.44	
133	 2.37	
130	 2.42	
139	 2.25	
131	 2.40	
140	 2.25	
137	 2.33	
138	 2.33	
144	 2.03	
134	 2.37	
143	 2.08	
142	 2.20	
141	 2.23	

79	 3.57
65	 3.80
64	 3.81
60	 3.88
86	 3.45
70	 3.77
88	 3.40
78	 3.57
87	 3.43
83	 3.51
90	 3.37
100	 3.26
71	 3.76
72	 3.74
89	 3.39
67	 3.79
81	 3.54
82	 3.52
92	 3.36
112	 3.05
108	 3.11
96	 3.32
91	 3.37
95	 3.33
97	 3.31
93	 3.36
94	 3.36
107	 3.11
85	 3.47
98	 3.31
102	 3.24
106	 3.11
103	 3.21
113	 3.05
101	 3.26
114	 2.99
109	 3.08
99	 3.27
105	 3.13
110	 3.07
123	 2.75
104	 3.14
111	 3.07
120	 2.86
117	 2.93
116	 2.93
126	 2.72
129	 2.61
122	 2.75
121	 2.80
115	 2.93
127	 2.71
124	 2.74
118	 2.90
119	 2.89
132	 2.42
125	 2.73
137	 2.33
128	 2.61
133	 2.41
131	 2.46
136	 2.36
130	 2.50
140	 2.25
134	 2.40
138	 2.31
139	 2.26
135	 2.39
142	 2.03
141	 2.15
143	 1.96
144	 1.90

The Global Information Technology Report 2012 | 15

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Figure 4: The Networked Readiness Index map

Score
n 
n 
n 
n 
n 
n 

5.4–7.0 (best)
5.0–5.4
4.0–5.0
3.3–4.0
1.0 (worst)–3.3
Not covered

Note: An interactive version of this map is available at www.weforum.org/gitr.

organizational models and 2nd for the impact of ICTs in
creating new services and products, which highlights
the importance of ICTs for innovation in service-based
economies.
Denmark ranks 8th overall, yet it is only 4th among
the Nordics. Down four places, the country worsens its
showing in almost two-thirds of the indicators comprising
the NRI. The level of networked readiness remains
astounding, however. Denmark tops the individual usage
pillar, boasting some of the highest rates of Internet
usage (6th), households with personal computers (6th),
broadband Internet subscriptions (3rd), and mobile
broadband subscriptions (6th).
Down one, the United States slips to 9th place
despite a performance essentially unchanged from
the previous year. This constitutes the country’s
worst showing since the first edition of the GITR in
2001, in which it ranked 1st, although changes to the
methodology and in the composition of the NRI over
time cause the results not to be strictly comparable.
The United States now appears in the top 10 of only
two pillars, compared with six just one year ago.
The country still possesses many strengths, which
have contributed to making it the world’s innovation
powerhouse for decades. However, this leadership is
now being contested. The United States ranks only 12th
worldwide for the number of PCT patent applications in
2009 and 2010 on a per capita basis. The rate of 134
applications per million population is less than half that
of leading Sweden (297 applications), Switzerland (285),
and Finland (279).

16 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Gaining one rank, Taiwan, China, enters the top 10.
Second among the Tigers, Taiwan owes its fast-paced
economic development to ICTs, which have been at
the heart of its industrialization since the early 1980s.
In addition to being a major manufacturing base for
electronics and high-tech products, Taiwan has become
an innovation hub. Beyond the ICT sector, technology
has permeated the entire society. Usage of ICTs is
widespread (15th) and their impacts are profound both
economically (7th) and socially (6th). On a less positive
note, Taiwan’s performance is undermined by the
relatively mediocre quality of its political and regulatory
environment (33rd), Taiwan’s second-worst pillar rank.5
EUROPE AND THE COMMONWEALTH OF
INDEPENDENT STATES
Several European countries continue to lead the
rankings, showcasing their strong efforts and
commitment to fully develop and leverage ICTs to
boost their competitiveness and the well-being of their
citizens. As presented in the previous section, seven
European countries, led by Finland and Sweden, are
positioned within the top 10. Within the European Union,
while stark intra-regional disparities persist, it is worth
noting that the divergence across Member States in
the NRI is significantly narrower than it is in the Global
Competitiveness Index,6 the most comprehensive
analysis for measuring the set of policies, institutions,
and factors that drive the productivity of an economy.
This reflects the longstanding efforts of the European

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Box 1: Sketching the new digital divide
Asia, Bangladesh and Nepal show in red, while the Southeast
Asia region presents a slightly brighter image, devoid of red
and with Malaysia in yellow. The orange color also dominates
in Latin America and the Caribbean. There, Chile, Uruguay,
Panama, and Costa Rica contribute to a brighter picture, but
19 countries score below the mid-point and four of them are
coded red (scores lower than 3.3) on the map. The picture is
predominantly red across sub-Saharan Africa, where only a
handful of nations, including South Africa and Kenya, appear
in orange. Mauritius (not shown on the map) is the only one
of the region’s 33 studied countries to obtain a score above
4. Finally, the patchwork of colors—from green to red—in
the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region betrays its
profound diversity. In the NRI rankings, a gap of 111 places
separates Qatar (23rd, with a score of 5.1) from Yemen (139th,
2.6).
In Europe—home to advanced, emerging, and
developing economies—the picture is very mixed. A patch
of yellow stretches almost uninterruptedly from the Iberian
Peninsula through Italy, Slovenia, the Czech Republic,
Poland, and the Baltics on to Russia. Adjacent is a cluster of
underperformers, depicted in orange and comprising most of
the Balkan countries, Romania, and Ukraine. Greece belongs
to this group. Sitting 63 places behind Finland, it is the only
advanced economy, along with the Slovak Republic, to score
lower than 4.
Looking in greater detail, Figure A reveals that the digital
divide is present across the 10 pillars of the NRI, even though
the average scores necessarily conceal vast differences
within the two groups. A traditional conception of the digital
divide tends to focus on differences in terms of infrastructure
and technological adoption. Despite rapid growth, the divide

The Networked Readiness Index (NRI) aims to measure the
ability of countries to leverage information and communication
technologies (ICTs) for improved competitiveness and wellbeing. This ability depends on multiple factors, as detailed in
this chapter and reflected in the comprehensive framework
underpinning the NRI. The NRI results confirm the presence
of the digital divide between advanced economies on the one
hand and emerging and developing economies on the other.
Figure 4 presents an intensity map of the world, with
economies color-coded based on their NRI overall score
measured on a 1-to-7 scale, with best- and worst-performing
economies appearing in dark green and red, respectively.
The contrast between advanced economies (see Table
1 for classification) and the rest of the world is stark and
betrays the inability or limited capacity of a vast majority of
countries to fully reap the benefits of ICTs. The green color,
corresponding to a score of 5 and above, paints parts of
Western Europe, with all Nordics but one painted dark
green, along with the United States, Canada, Australia, New
Zealand, Japan, and the Asian Tigers. The rest of the map is
almost entirely devoid of green. The only exceptions are Israel
(in 15th place, with an NRI score of 5.4), Estonia (22nd, 5.1),
Qatar (23rd, 5.1), and the United Arab Emirates (25th, 5.1)—all
pockets of strong performance in their respective regions,
which are characterized by serious shortcomings.
Although a vast majority of them trail the advanced
economies, the developing and emerging economies do
not draw a homogenous picture—far from it. The map is
mostly yellow (corresponding to NRI scores between 4 and
5) in Central and Eastern Asia and orange (scores between
3.3 and 4), with red patches in the Caucasus. The picture is
predominantly orange in the rest of Developing Asia. In South

Figure A: The digital divide in the 10 pillars of the NRI

l  Emerging and developing economies
l  Advanced economies
1. Political and
regulatory environment
10. Social
impacts

7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5
4

9. Economic
impacts

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3
2
1

8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

Note: Pillar scores are measured on a 1-to-7 scale (where 1 is the lowest score and 7 is the highest).

(Cont’d.)

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 17

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Box 1: Sketching the new digital divide (cont’d.)
in these two areas remains high. Of the 10 pillars,
infrastructure and digital content and individual usage are
the two where the score differentials between advanced
economies and the rest of the world are the biggest (2.7).
Although mobile telephony is becoming ubiquitous almost
everywhere, figures for Internet usage and broadband access,
let alone mobile broadband access and PC ownership,
remain low in most parts of the world.
Table A reports aggregate penetration rates (weighted
by population) for various technologies in the 109 developing
economies and 35 advanced economies covered by the NRI.
As of 2011, there were 81 mobile telephony subscriptions per
100 population in the developing economies under review,
not too far from the 111 subscriptions per 100 population
of advanced economies. However, when it comes to
Internet access, the ratios are much more skewed. Seventyseven percent of individuals in advanced economies use
the Internet, about three times as many as in developing
countries (25 percent). The figures for PC ownership yield a
similar ratio of 3.5 to 1 higher. In terms of mobile broadband
subscriptions, the ratio is 7.3 to 1 in favor of advanced
economies. Mobile telephony alone will not allow developing
countries to bridge the digital divide. One must hope that the

same degree of innovation, competition, and attention that
contributed to making mobile telephony affordable, useful,
and ubiquitous will spread to other technologies.
Figure A reveals that the divide is not limited to mere
differences in terms of ICT adoption. It extends well beyond,
covering all aspects of networked readiness. In particular, the
gap is large when it comes to ICT impacts. This is arguably
the result of biggest concern, as impact is ultimately what
really matters. Narrowing this new digital divide will take even
more effort than narrowing the gap in ICT access.
In the 2012 edition of the GITR, we had already
highlighted the digital divide in our analysis. Very little
progress has been made this year toward reducing this
divide, with a few exceptions. Several members of the Gulf
Cooperation Council and the Commonwealth of Independent
States have posted significant improvements. But these
encouraging developments have only a negligible impact
on the overall picture and conclusions drawn here. The lack
of convergence since last year is not surprising given the
complexity and multiplicity of factors driving a country’s
networked readiness. It will take time and considerable effort
for the developing world to reduce the gap.

Table A: Penetration of various technologies, 2011
	
Population-weighted rates	

Developing	
economies (109) 	

Advanced	
economies (35) 	

All	
economies (144) 	

Ratio of advanced to
developing economies

Mobile cellular telephone subscriptions per 100 pop.	

81.3	

110.7	

85.7	

1.4

Fixed (wired) broadband subscriptions per 100 pop.	

5.1	

28.7	

8.7	

5.7

Active mobile broadband subscriptions per 100 pop.	

8.8	

64.8	

17.0	

7.3

Percentage of individuals using the Internet	

25.0	

77.3	

32.8	

3.1

Percentage of households with a computer 	

22.2	

77.7	

31.2	

3.5

Source: Authors’ calculation, based on ITU’s World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition).
Note: See Table 1 for country classification. Penetration rates are based on the sample of 144 economies included in the NRI. For each technology, economies for which no data
are available for 2011 are excluded from the calculation.

Union to narrow the digital divide in Europe and build
an internal digital market, as corroborated by the launch
of a new Digital Agenda for Europe,7 one of the seven
flagship initiatives of the European Commission’s Europe
2020 Strategy for growth and jobs for the present
decade.
Within Europe—beyond the Nordic countries, the
Netherlands, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom—
Germany in 13th place and going up three notches is
leveraging ICTs quite efficiently, especially in terms of
boosting its economic impacts for competitiveness,
where it scores within the top 10. The country continues
to boast a highly developed ICT infrastructure (10th),
which translates into a high uptake by individuals

18 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

(14th), with one of the highest broadband Internet
subscriptions (8th) in the world, and by businesses (5th)
that are extensively using ICTs in their transactions with
other businesses (14th) and with consumers (14th). In
addition, the outstanding innovation capacity of the local
firms (3rd) coupled with a well-performing educational
system (20th) results in the already-mentioned high
levels of economic impacts (10th) and in innovation and
knowledge-intensive activities (15th).
Luxembourg, in 16th place and five ranks higher
than last year, continues to improve its ICT infrastructure
(12th) and its strong uptake by individuals, businesses,
and government. Since identifying ICTs as one of the
crucial sectors needed to diversify its economy and

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

improve efficiency in other crucial sectors, such as the
financial sector, Luxembourg’s government’s strong
vision (5th) in upgrading ICT uptake has resulted in
one of the world’s highest rates of Internet users (5th)
and households with a personal computer (3rd) and
an Internet connection (6th). Notwithstanding these
achievements, the economic impacts of ICTs (25th) to
boost innovation, while improving, still remains below
other very advanced economies, the result of some
weaknesses in an innovation system that has recently
been developed. Further strengthening the country’s
national innovation capacity would thus yield better
results for the ICT infrastructure and uptake that is
already world class.
Within the top 20, as last year, Austria places 19th,
with a rather stable profile. The country continues to
exhibit a very strong ICT infrastructure and digital content
(9th) that, coupled with a good skill base (24th), allows
for a strong individual uptake (19th), with high rates of
Internet users (15th) and extensive use of the Internet for
economic transactions between businesses (3rd) and
with consumers (16th). Moreover, the country’s longlasting investments in innovation and the integration of
ICTs in this favorable ecosystem result in good economic
impacts (22nd). On a less positive note, Austria continues
to suffer from high tax rates (120th) and cumbersome
procedures (97th) to open a business, which can hinder
the ability of existing and new businesses to appear and
grow.
Once again, Estonia ranks as the highest Central
and Eastern European country, in 22nd place, gaining
two positions in the rankings. The strong vision of its
government (23rd) and its success (14th) in developing
ICTs as one of the critical industries for the local
economy continues to yield good impacts (15th), both
in economic (23rd) and social (5th) terms, where the
country depicts one of the strongest performances
across the globe. Following the example of the Nordic
countries, Estonia has managed to develop a strong
ICT infrastructure and encourage a strong uptake by
citizens (23rd), by businesses in their transactions
with other businesses and government (15th), and by
the government (23rd), which continues to expand its
offerings of online services. Going forward, the country
could benefit even further by strengthening its innovation
system, which still suffers from some weaknesses and
limits the private sector’s capacity to innovate (33rd) and
thus benefit from the full potential that ICTs can offer.
Belgium, in 24th place—two notches down from
last year—continues to leverage ICTs strongly to obtain
high economic impacts (19th) thanks to a well-developed
ICT infrastructure (18th), a world-class educational
system (3rd), and an innovation and entrepreneurshipprone environment (18th) that allows for a fairly high
innovation capacity in local firms (11th). In order to
keep boosting ICT uptake, mobile cellular tariffs should

fall (127th), as this seems to affect mobile phone
subscriptions (50th) and especially mobile broadband
subscriptions (56th). Furthermore, the government could
expand its offerings of online services (39th), notably the
facilities to increase citizens’ online participation (81st),
which remains below the EU average.
Despite a drop of three positions, France—in 26th
place—achieves a good and harmonious uptake of ICTs
across all different agents in society and achieves strong
economic impacts (17th), thanks to a good skill base
(21st). Overall, ICT infrastructure and digital content has
continued to improve (28th) and, although a bit more
costly to access (86th), overall use has remained high,
with the government significantly expanding its offerings
of online services (8th). On a less positive note, a slight
deterioration in the business and innovation environment
(39th), along with a high tax system (130th), can
potentially impede future ICT-related startups.
Portugal and Spain, despite their current economic
difficulties, maintain their positions in the rankings at
33rd and 38th place, respectively. Both countries have
managed to develop a solid ICT infrastructure (34th and
31st, respectively), which has resulted in relatively good
levels of ICT uptake by most stakeholders. This is the
case especially for Spain, where both the government’s
offerings of online services (23rd) and Internet broadband
subscriptions (26th), including mobile broadband (25th),
are high and close to those of other Western European
economies despite the high cost of mobile telephony
(132nd). In both cases, the economic impacts that could
accrue from ICTs are somewhat jeopardized because of
weaknesses in their innovation systems and the quality
of their educational systems (94th and 97th, respectively),
which limit the capacity of businesses to innovate (40th
and 44th, respectively) and, therefore, hinder the needed
economic transformation of both countries toward
higher-knowledge-intensive activities (53rd and 37th,
respectively).
In Southeastern Europe, Slovenia, stable in 37th
place, continues its regional leadership in terms of
leveraging ICTs. With a well-developed ICT infrastructure
and a good skill base (36th) despite some quality
concerns in the educational system (63rd), the country
has obtained high levels of ICT penetration, with
Internet users reaching close to three-quarters of the
population (28th) and a high level of broadband Internet
subscriptions (24th), despite the relatively high cost of
ICT access (85th). In order to improve the economic
impacts of ICTs (34th), Slovenia should continue
strengthening its rather pro-business environment while
addressing some of the weaknesses of its innovation
system, such as the lack of available venture capital
(113th). This rather positive outlook contrasts with
the situation of other countries in the region, such as
Bosnia and Herzegovina and Serbia in 78th and 87th
positions, respectively, which reflect a yet insufficiently

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 19

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

developed ICT infrastructure and uptake and weak
innovation systems that hamper their capacity to fully
leverage ICTs to boost competitiveness.
Stable in 42nd place, the Czech Republic
continues to strive in terms of a well-developed ICT
infrastructure (23rd) and high penetration in terms of
individual usage (29th), with many Internet users (27th)
and mobile broadband subscriptions (21st), despite the
high cost of ICTs (99th). As a result, e-commerce, both
between businesses (23rd) and between businesses and
consumers (8th), is well developed. On a less positive
note, and although governmental online services have
increased, they remain relatively low (53rd). Going
forward, the country could benefit more from ICTs to
boost innovation (82nd) and raise competitiveness by
addressing some of the current weaknesses in the
innovation system, such as limited venture capital (84th).
Other countries in Central Europe—such as Hungary,
Poland, and the Slovak Republic in 44th, 49th, and
61st place, respectively—have also remained stable
with little variation in the rankings, despite relatively well
developed ICT infrastructures and penetration rates.
However, serious weaknesses in their innovation systems
hinder their capacity to properly integrate their digital
development into a well-performing ecosystem that
allows for higher innovation rates. In addition, Bulgaria
and Romania, in 71st and 75th place, respectively, close
the EU rankings, with lower rates of ICT uptake and
unstable environments that impede their potential for
higher economic and social returns.
Turkey, in 45th place, ascends seven notches
in the rankings, thanks to an overall improvement in
its political and regulatory framework (54th) and in its
business and innovation environment (43rd); a significant
improvement in developing crucial ICT infrastructure,
such as international Internet broadband capacity (42nd);
and, above all, a drop in tariffs to access ICTs (4th),
which have allowed for higher ICT penetration in terms
of broadband subscriptions (56th) and Internet users
(69th). Notwithstanding this progress, the country still
suffers from an insufficiently developed skills pool (81st),
the result of a low secondary education enrollment
rate (88th) and a poor educational system (100th) that
hamper the capacity of the country to fully leverage
ICTs to boost innovation and raise national productivity
levels. Addressing these weaknesses while improving
government online tools to boost citizens’ participation
could help the country increase both its economic and
social impacts going forward.
A drop of two places leaves Italy in 50th position.
Deterioration in the country’s political and regulatory
environment (95th) and a relative stagnation in its
progress toward improving its ICT infrastructure (40th),
boosting a higher ICT uptake, and consequently
obtaining higher economic and social impacts have
resulted in this small decline. Overall, it is worth noting

20 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

the perception of a lack of coherent government vision
to boost ICTs (118th) and the limited role that ICTs play in
organizing economic transactions between businesses
(101st) and between businesses and consumers (83rd).
These factors, coupled with the persistent weaknesses
in the innovation system (69th) and in the quality of
education (87th), are hindering the country’s capacity to
leverage ICTs better and obtain higher economic and
social impacts.
As in Italy, the rapid deterioration of the political
and regulatory environment (103rd), the lack of a
government vision to boost ICTs (138th), and the stark
weaknesses in the national innovation system that hold
back the capacity of local firms to innovate (104th)
have resulted in Greece’s drop of five positions, down
to 64th place. The current economic difficulties have
slightly affected the country’s otherwise fairly well
developed ICT infrastructure (46th), mainly in terms
of international Internet bandwidth (51st), although
individual uptake (43rd) has improved, notably in the
number of Internet users (51st). In terms of obtaining
better returns for national ICT investments, the country
will need to address the already-mentioned weaknesses
in its innovation system and improve the quality of its
educational system (115th).
Within the Commonwealth of Independent States,
several countries have fully recognized the potential
of ICTs to leapfrog and diversify their economies, and
important progress has been recorded since last year.
Leading the region, Kazakhstan depicts a strong
performance with a rise of 12 positions to 43rd place.
Improvements virtually across the board—led by a strong
government vision (35th) that continues to develop the
ICT infrastructure (63rd) and supports stronger ICT
uptake—as evidenced by the number of Internet users
(62nd), along with households with a personal computer
(63rd) and those with Internet access (55th), which
have almost doubled since the last observation—have
driven this good result. Notwithstanding this progress,
the economic impacts (66th) accruing from a higher
use of ICTs remain modest in their ability to spur new
services or products (92nd) and raise the national
competitiveness, mainly because of a low capacity for
local innovation (92nd), an educational system that is
deemed insufficient for the challenges ahead (101st),
weaknesses in the political and regulatory environment
(77th), and some concerns about the functioning of the
judicial system (94th).
The Russian Federation, overtaking China as the
leading large emerging economy, rises two positions to
54th place thanks to improvements in higher rates of
general ICT uptake, with growing numbers of Internet
users (57th) and, especially, a spectacular increase
in mobile broadband subscriptions (20th) that has
multiplied exponentially, as almost half of the population
now benefit from it. Despite this progress, the country

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

continues to suffer from low rates of e-business (107th),
a weak political and regulatory framework (108th), and
a poor business and innovation environment (90th) that
affects its capacity to further leverage ICTs to boost its
economy and benefit from higher rates of products and
service innovation (123rd).
Azerbaijan, in 56th place, continues its ascension
in the rankings as a result of an improvement in its
ICT infrastructure, especially in terms of international
Internet bandwidth capacity (64th), that—coupled with
affordable prices (20th)—result in higher rates of ICT
uptake. This is seen in rising numbers of broadband
subscriptions (53rd), including mobile broadband (50th),
which has rapidly expanded in the past year. Despite
these significant advances in boosting the national
connectivity, economic and social impacts (59th) could
be further enhanced if the current weaknesses in
fostering innovation and entrepreneurship (86th) and
increasing the quality of the educational system (109th)
were addressed.
Within the region, Georgia and Armenia—showing
some of the highest gains in our rankings, of 23 and
12 positions, respectively—reach 65th and 82nd place,
respectively. They are joined by Ukraine and Tajikistan
with more moderate rises of two positions to 73rd and
112th place, respectively, in this overall regional positive
trend. On a less positive note, the Kyrgyz Republic, at
118th, has not managed to join its neighbors in better
leveraging ICTs to boost its economic competitiveness.
ASIA AND THE PACIFIC
Asia is home to some of the wealthiest economies and
some of the most successful development stories in
the world, but also to some of the poorest countries. A
similarly profound diversity characterizes Asia’s digital
landscape, thus making it impossible to draw a uniform
picture of the region. The most digitized and innovative
economies—the Asian Tigers—co-exist in the region
with some of the least-connected ones. Nowhere else
does the regional digital divide run so deeply. Regardless
of their position on the development ladder, all Asian
economies have much to gain from increased networked
readiness. It will allow populations of the least-advanced
countries to gain access to much-needed basic services,
improved government transparency and efficiency,
and—for the most advanced, many of which suffer from
anemic economic growth—it will contribute to boosting
their innovation capacity. The NRI reveals that in the case
of Asia’s best-performing economies, the governments
typically lead the digital effort, unlike in Europe. At the
heart of Asia, and representative of its immense diversity,
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN)
is fairly dynamic. Led by Singapore, all eight ASEAN
members covered by the NRI improve their overall score
and a majority progress in the rankings, albeit in some

cases—such as Cambodia and the Philippines—from a
low base.
The Republic of Korea (11th) gains one rank and
now stands in the doorway of the top 10. The country’s
performance is particularly lopsided. Korea ranks 32nd
and 23rd in the environment subindex and the readiness
subindex, respectively. By contrast—and remarkably
enough—it places 4th in the usage subindex and 5th in
the impact subindex.
The lowest-ranked Tiger economy, Hong Kong
SAR, places 14th overall. Its performance is arguably
more balanced than those of Taiwan and Korea: Hong
Kong ranks no lower than 30th in nine of the ten pillars.8
The most positive aspect is its 2nd rank in the business
and innovation environment pillar, just behind Singapore.
ICT usage is widespread (20th), and Hong Kong holds
the record for the most mobile telephone subscriptions
per capita, with 215 for every 100 population.
Australia occupies the 18th rank, one notch
lower than a year ago. The county’s performance is
undermined by a poor score in the affordability pillar.
Although most of the 19 main ICT service categories
are fully liberalized, average prices of mobile telephony
and Internet remain very high by international standards,
earning Australia the 97th rank in this category.
Ahead of its neighbor in the previous edition of the
NRI, New Zealand drops six places to 20th, two lower
than Australia this year. The quality of its regulatory
and business environment is outstanding, earning New
Zealand the 2nd spot in the environment subindex,
just behind Singapore. In particular, the transparency
and efficiency of its institutions are among the world’s
best. The excellent skill base of the population (6th) also
contributes to the country’s high degree of readiness. As
for most advanced economies featuring high in the NRI,
the affordability pillar (100th) is New Zealand’s only real
weakness.
One of the world’s most prolific innovators, Japan
ranks a disappointing 21st overall and is down three
spots from the previous edition. A number of important
shortcomings in the environment subindex, including red
tape, prevent the country from playing a leading role in
the NRI. The biggest competitive advantage of Japan is
without doubt its innovative and sophisticated business
sector (2nd). Technology and innovation have greatly
contributed to making Japan one of the most productive
economies worldwide. But beyond the tremendous
impact of technology on the economy, it has not had
an important impact on society at large (31st). A more
conducive institutional framework, including a renewed
commitment by the government, could usher in new
drivers of growth for Japan.
Despite losing one rank, Malaysia (30th) remains
the best-ranked economy in Developing Asia. Trying
to emulate the success of Korea and other Asian
Tigers, the Malaysian government has been pursuing

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 21

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

a long-term transformation plan with the ambition of
achieving high-income status by the end of the decade,
with ICTs playing a critical role. Most governmentrelated indicators reflect this commitment, and Malaysia
places 7th in the government usage pillar. Businesses
are quite aggressive at adopting technology and are
increasingly innovative. The government-led efforts seem
to be starting to have a transformational impact on the
economy (29th) and the society at large (25th). Areas of
weaker performance include infrastructure (73rd) and
individual usage (46th), owing to the relatively low rates of
adoption of the latest technologies.
China posts a fall of seven places in the rankings
this year, and occupies the 58th position overall and
second among the BRICS countries,9 falling below
Russia (54th). To better leverage ICTs, China faces
important challenges across the board. Its institutional
framework (56th), and especially its business
environment (105th), present serious shortcomings
that stifle entrepreneurship and innovation, including
excessive red tape, high taxes (127th), and questionable
intellectual property protection—for instance, almost
80 percent of installed software in China is estimated
to be pirated. Our study also points to the limited or
delayed availability of new technologies (107th) despite
the presence of pockets of technological excellence
in certain sectors and regions of the country. In terms
of readiness, the country ranks a low 83rd in the
infrastructure and digital content pillar, mainly because
of its underdeveloped Internet infrastructure, especially
in certain rural areas that do not benefit from the rapid
development experienced in urban centers. China gets
high marks in the affordability and skills categories,
placing 40th and 53rd, respectively. Looking at actual
ICT usage (58th), penetration rates remain quite low in
absolute terms but should be considered in the light
of the sheer size of the country and the large rural
population. A mere 40 percent of individuals use the
Internet on a regular basis. There are 12 fixed broadband
Internet subscriptions for every 100 population; mobile
broadband Internet is nearly as widespread, with 10
subscriptions per 100 population. By contrast, ICT usage
among businesses is extensive (35th). China is becoming
more and more innovative, and this in turn encourages
further and quicker adoption of technologies. The
government is placing great hopes in ICTs to boost
productivity and, ultimately, growth. Its efforts in
promoting and using ICTs are reflected in China’s strong
showing in the government usage pillar (38th).
With a performance essentially unchanged from
the previous edition, India progresses one rank to
68th. India’s performance remains very mixed. The
most worrisome aspects are the mediocre quality of
the political, regulatory, and business environment
(85th), as well as its lack of digital infrastructure (111th).
Extensive red tape stands in the way of businesses,

22 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

and corporate tax at 62 percent of profit is among
the highest in the world. Other variables within the
environment subindex are better assessed, including the
availability of new technologies (47th), the availability of
venture capital (26th), the intensity of local competition
(34th), and the quality of management schools (33rd).
A critical determinant of a country’s readiness, India’s
literacy rate is among the lowest in the sample at 63
percent (121st). On the other hand, intense competition
in the sector and innovations for the “bottom of the
pyramid” have made India the leader in the affordability
pillar, thus providing a significant boost to its readiness.
Partly owing to the weaknesses noted above, adoption
of ICTs remains dismally low in India, as reflected in its
121st rank in the individual usage pillar. Although mobile
telephony is becoming ubiquitous, only one person in
ten uses the Internet regularly. Accessing it at broadband
speed remains the privilege of a very few, with a single
fixed broadband Internet subscription for every 100
population. Mobile broadband access has already
become more widespread, with two subscriptions per
100 population. By contrast, businesses are early and
assiduous adopters of new technologies (40th). And
the government is placing a lot of emphasis on ICTs as
a way to address some of the country’s most pressing
issues, including job creation, corruption and red tape,
and education. Whether this vision will translate into a
transformation of the economy and society remains to
be seen. But already ICTs are having an—albeit small—
transformational impact on the economy, which is partly
reflected in India’s performance in the economic impacts
pillar (43rd).
Thanks to a two-place improvement, Sri Lanka
(69th) now trails its neighbor by just one rank, even
though the country fails to improve its score. Sri Lanka
and India are the only two countries in the South Asia
Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)
group to rank higher than the 100th mark. A huge gulf
separates them from other SAARC members Pakistan
(105th, down three), Bangladesh (114th, down one), and
Nepal (126th).
Within ASEAN, Thailand (74th) leads a group of
four members that do not leverage ICTs to their full
potential. Trailing by more than 70 and 40 places behind
Singapore and Malaysia, respectively, Thailand exhibits a
number of weaknesses across the board. The highlights
of its performance are the relative affordability of ICTs
(45th), in particular mobile telephony, and the quality of
its business and innovation environment (52nd). However,
in this latter category as elsewhere, Thailand alternates
good and poor assessments. Aside from mobile
telephony, other technologies remain relatively scant,
translating to a middling 88th rank in the individual usage
pillar. Also the institutional environment does not seem
to be particularly conducive (81st) and the government
does not appear to be particularly ardent at pushing

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

the digital agenda nationwide (86th). In this dimension,
the satisfactory ranks obtained in both the Government
Online Service Index (64th) and E-Participation Index
(46th) conceal relatively low marks (0.51 and 0.32,
respectively, on a 0-to-1 scale).
ASEAN’s most populous country, Indonesia,
advances by four ranks and climbs to 76th place. The
affordability pillar is where Indonesia ranks the highest
(39th). Elsewhere, its most positive features are found
in the usage subindex, where Indonesia improves
by no less than 15 places to reach 70th position. In
particular, the country ranks an impressive 40th for
business usage. Companies are quick at absorbing
the latest technologies and are becoming increasingly
innovative. Mobile telephony is already ubiquitous, but
other technologies exhibit spectacular growth rates,
though from a very low base (92nd in individual usage
pillar, up 11). For instance, mobile broadband technology
increased more than tenfold between 2010 and 2011,
reaching 22 subscriptions per 100 population (48th).
Also, Indonesians are notoriously very assiduous users of
virtual social networks (only 51st, but with an impressive
score of 5.7 on a 1-to-7 scale). Finally, a 17-place jump
in the government usage also contributes to the positive
trend. Unfortunately, these positive results do not—yet—
translate into similar progress in the various measures
of ICT impact, earning Indonesia a low 86th rank in this
subindex, unchanged from a year ago.
With a performance essentially unchanged from the
previous year, Vietnam loses one rank to place 84th.
As for most ASEAN countries, the affordability pillar
constitutes the best aspect of Vietnam’s performance
(38th). For the rest, many shortcomings are present in
all dimensions of the NRI. Perhaps the most worrisome
aspect is the poor overall quality of the political,
regulatory, and business environments. As a result,
Vietnam ranks a disappointing 97th in the environment
subindex. Such lack of conduciveness is not only
detrimental to ICT development, but also seriously
undermines the country’s competitiveness in general.
Second to last within ASEAN, the Philippines
remains in 86th position despite a significant
improvement in its overall score. The country manages
to boost its marks where it is the most desperately
needed, namely the environment subindex. Up 11 spots
year to year, the Philippines still ranks a dismal 100th in
this dimension, the very last among ASEAN countries.
In particular, the extent of red tape remains alarming
despite some progress, and the Philippines is among
the worst worldwide in several related indicators. On
a much more positive note, the country ranks 68th in
terms of ICT impacts (up 16). The role of ICTs in creating
new products and services (43rd) and organization
models (33rd) is not negligible and contributes to this
encouraging result.

Twenty places behind the Philippines and closing
the rankings among ASEAN countries, Cambodia
(106th) improves its showing by two ranks. The country
ranks beyond the 100th mark in six of the ten pillars of
the NRI. Amid this mostly gloomy picture, the fact that
it shows progress on approximately two-thirds of the
indicators is encouraging.
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
Digitally connecting the hemisphere remains one of
the key challenges for the region, as recognized during
the Sixth Summit of the Americas, which took place
in Colombia in April 2012.10 While several countries—
including Panama, Mexico, Colombia, and El Salvador—
have made remarkable improvements that are clearly
reflected in important gains in the scores and rankings
of the NRI, overall, Latin America and the Caribbean
still suffers from a serious lag that prevents it from
fully leveraging the potential of ICTs to boost regional
productivity. The social and, most remarkably, economic
impacts accruing from ICTs remain low in comparison
to other regions, despite government-led efforts to
develop and upgrade ICT infrastructure and despite
governments’ increasing use of Internet to communicate
and interact with individuals and the business
community. Weaknesses in the political and regulatory
environment, the existence of large segments of the
population with a low skill base, and poor development
of the innovation system are all factors hindering the
potential that ICT developments could have on the
regional economy.
Chile, in 34th place and up this year by five
positions, remains once again the country within
Latin America that is making the strongest efforts to
leverage ICTs to boost its competitiveness and increase
civil participation. In the past year, the country has
continued its attempts to strengthen ICT infrastructure
and increase connectivity and the use of the Internet
(50th)—although still far from the values of more
advanced economies, this depicts one of the highest
scores for this set of indicators in the region. In addition,
the government has continued to increase its offerings
of online services (24th) and supports the online active
participation of its citizens (19th) in the decision-making
process. That, coupled with its entrepreneurial-friendly
and efficient legal framework, result in relatively high
values in terms of economic (35th) and especially social
(27th) impacts accruing from ICTs. Notwithstanding
this favorable outlook, the economic impacts of ICTs in
terms of boosting technological and non-technological
innovation are not yet fully leveraged because of some
important and recurring weaknesses in the quality of the
educational system (91st) and a relatively low capacity to
innovate (83rd). Boosting innovation and improving the
quality of education for all segments of the population
should be the two key areas to strengthen going forward

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 23

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

to keep supporting Chile’s transition toward higher-valueadded economic activities.
With its slight drop of four positions, Barbados
remains one of the best performers in the region thanks
mainly to its outstanding educational system (7th) and
very high connectivity, both in terms of ICT infrastructure
and digital content (38th) and in its level of Internet
users (30th), despite the still-high cost of accessing ICTs
(111th). In addition, the country boasts a relatively efficient
environment for ICT development and uptake (36th)
that widely supports the high levels of individuals (26th)
and businesses (43rd) using ICTs in their transactions.
However, the government seems to lag behind in fully
leveraging the potential of ICTs. Despite recognition of its
vision for developing ICTs (36th), the offerings of online
services for citizens and businesses (95th), as well as
the opportunities for citizen participation (111th), remain
limited. Addressing these weaknesses and strengthening
the overall innovation capacity of indigenous firms (91st)
would allow Barbados to benefit more from ICTs.
Panama continues its steady ascent in the rankings,
rising 11 positions to 46th place. The country’s strategy
to fully develop ICTs as one of the key factors driving
its productivity and supporting crucial sectors of its
economy, such as logistics and banking, seems to
be paying off. Further efforts to address long-lasting
structural weaknesses in terms of the quality of
education (112th) and innovation (94th) will be crucial
going forward; these weaknesses are also taking a toll
on the potential economic impacts (73rd) accruing from
ICTs. Overall, the clear, firm vision of the government
(20th) to continue its efforts to develop its national ICT
infrastructure are reflected in the doubling of international
Internet bandwidth capacity (36th) and in the number
of households with a computer and Internet connection
(77th). While still low in comparison with international
standards, these improvements have led to a higher ICT
uptake by all agents in the society.
Despite a decline in the rankings, Uruguay, in 52nd
place, remains one of the Latin American countries that
is leveraging ICTs better to obtain meaningful economic
and social impacts. Overall, the country continues to
develop its ICT infrastructure, expanding its international
Internet bandwidth capacity (44th). It now enjoys full
mobile network coverage for its entire population (1st),
although this remains relatively costly (80th), especially
in terms of mobile cellular tariffs (94th). Overall, the
efforts to expand ICT uptake in the population continue
to improve and, for the first time, more than half of the
population is using the Internet (53rd) and benefiting
from one of the highest school Internet access rates
in the world (15th). Notwithstanding these important
strengths, the economic impacts of ICTs, especially in
supporting Uruguay’s transition to a more knowledgebased economy (67th), face two primary limitations. First,
the local innovation system is insufficiently developed,

24 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

thus not allowing local businesses to rely on a high
capacity to innovate (74th). Second, the quality of the
educational system (107th), while one of the best in
the region, does not seem to provide the skills that
are increasingly demanded by local firms. As a result
and going forward, continuing the good progress in
increasing ICT uptake should be accompanied by further
efforts to strengthen the local innovation system in order
to obtain greater economic impacts that can boost
national competitiveness.
Costa Rica, together with Panama, remains the
leader in ICT uptake in Central America and climbs
five positions in the rankings to 53rd place. Overall,
the country has continued its efforts to develop its
very affordable (6th) ICT infrastructure, especially in
terms of improving its international Internet bandwidth
capacity (40th) that, coupled with a well-performing
educational system (21st), allows for an overall strong ICT
readiness (33rd). However, ICT uptake, especially among
individuals (71st), remains relatively low. Moreover,
concerns in the political and regulatory framework
(74th)—notably in terms of the time needed to enforce
contracts (122nd) and in the business and innovation
environment (94th), with excessive red tape (132nd)
needed to start a business—also affect the national
capacity to leverage ICTs even further to boost national
competitiveness.
Rising five positions since last year thanks to
improvements in ICT infrastructure (62nd) and ICT uptake
(44th), Brazil is now in 60th place. In the past year, the
country has more than doubled its international Internet
bandwidth capacity per user (47th) and expanded its
mobile network coverage to its entire population. As a
result, ICT uptake by individuals has sharply increased
(58th) in virtually all dimensions analyzed in the NRI.
Notwithstanding this progress, expanded coverage’s
translation into greater economic impacts in terms of
innovation and higher competitiveness has somewhat
stagnated (50th). This is mainly the result of important
weaknesses in the business and innovation environment
(126th), which still suffers from excessive red tape
and burdensome procedures, and the quality of the
educational system (116th), which does not seem to
provide the necessary skills for a rapidly changing
economy in need of a wider talent pool.
Mexico experiences a sharp rise of 13 positions
to attain 63rd place in the rankings, driven mainly by
government efforts to deeply develop its offerings
of online services (28th), increase its citizens’
participation to support their government (25th), and
an overall improvement in the business and innovation
environment. Despite these important steps forward, the
country has made less progress in further developing
its ICT infrastructure (82nd) and significantly reducing
its access costs (63rd), notably in terms of mobile
telephony (102nd). As a result, ICT uptake in terms of

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Internet users (78th) or households with Internet access
has not progressed. This, coupled with a skills shortage
(87th) because of the low quality of the educational
system (100th), has resulted in little progress in terms of
economic impacts accruing from ICTs (72nd). Adopting
and implementing a holistic digital agenda that could
boost the development and uptake of ICTs and their
inclusion in a more robust innovation system could help
address some of these important weaknesses and
provide better results.
Colombia ranks in 66th place, seven notches
up since last year, thanks to efforts to drive prices
of fixed broadband Internet tariffs (75th) down that
have resulted in an increase in the number of Internet
users (70th); and thanks also to the continued effort,
led by the government, to increase the number of
available online services (16th) and the support for
raising citizens’ online participation (11th). Despite these
remarkable improvements, the country still suffers from
an underdeveloped ICT infrastructure and digital content
(96th), along with a political and regulatory framework
(92nd) and a business and innovation environment (95th)
that hampers the country’s capacity to fully leverage
ICTs for competitiveness. The result is limited economic
impacts (70th).
A lack of progress in upgrading a rather costly
access (114th) to national ICT infrastructure has caused
Argentina to fall seven positions to 99th place. The
country boasts fairly good results in terms of international
Internet bandwidth capacity (52nd) and high levels of
educational enrollment, notably at the tertiary level (21st).
However, the poor business climate for entrepreneurship
and innovation (110th) and weaknesses in the political
and regulatory environment are hindering the country’s
potential to obtain greater economic impacts (91st) and
move the national economy toward more knowledgeintensive activities (82nd).
Despite going up three places in the rankings
to 103rd place, Peru continues to lag significantly
in terms of leveraging ICTs to modernize its national
economy. Even with a government push to increase the
number of online services and a reduction in the cost
of accessing broadband Internet (107th), insufficient
progress in developing the national ICT infrastructure
(86th) has resulted in the relative stagnation of ICT
uptake, notably in terms of the number of Internet users
(77th) and households with computers (82nd) or an
Internet connection (83rd). Moreover, notwithstanding its
relatively pro-business environment (57th), weaknesses
in the political and regulatory environment (121st), the
poor quality of its educational system (132nd), and
its low capacity to innovate (103rd) are factors that
are hampering the country’s ability to obtain greater
economic impacts and allow the national economy to
transition toward higher-value-added activities.

Finally, Paraguay (104th), Venezuela (108th), Bolivia
(119th), and Haiti (141st) close the regional rankings.
These four countries fall behind others in the region
because of important ICT connectivity weaknesses and
an innovation-adverse environment that prevents high
economic impacts that would result from innovation and
the economic transformation of these countries toward
knowledge-intensive activities.
SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA
Sub-Saharan Africa has continued to make significant
efforts to build its ICT infrastructure, as reflected by
important improvements in developing its broadband
infrastructure and the expansion of its mobile network
coverage. As a result, ICT usage, while still very low,
has picked up slightly, as seen especially by an increase
in the number of Internet users and the continued
commitment of some governments in the region to
expand the number of available online services. Despite
this positive trend, the stubbornly high sharp digital
divide from more advanced economies, notably in terms
of ICT-driven economic and social impacts, persists.
A still-costly access to ICT infrastructure and relatively
low levels of skills with low educational attainments and
unfavorable business conditions for entrepreneurship
and innovation are hindering the region’s capacity to fully
leverage the potential of the increasingly available ICT
infrastructure. As a result, only two countries—Mauritius
(55th) and South Africa (70th)—are positioned in the top
half of the rankings, while nine out of the bottom ten
belong to the region.
Mauritius, in 55th place, two down from last year,
continues to lead by far the regional classification thanks
to a fairly strong political and regulatory framework (36th)
and the government’s strong vision (48th) to build and
deploy ICTs as one of the three key strategic priority
sectors for the development of the national economy.
Overall, the country has continued to build its ICT
structure, ensuring that it becomes affordable in order
to support a stronger uptake from all agents in the
country. As a result, broadband Internet subscriptions
(60th) and Internet users (81st) have slightly increased,
although the results also show that the use of ICTs
for transactions between businesses (48th) is more
extended than it is for individuals (92nd). The impacts
of ICTs remain modest (80th), despite the presence of
a business-friendly environment (46th), mainly because
an insufficiently developed innovation capacity (112th)
hampers the country’s capacity to fully leverage ICTs to
boost innovation and competitiveness.
Going up two positions, South Africa is in 70th
place. Despite a sharp improvement in the development
of its ICT infrastructure (59th)—notably in terms of
international Internet bandwidth capacity (66th)—and
a strong uptake by the business community (33rd),
the ICT impacts (92nd), particularly the social ones

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 25

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

Box 2: Charting the increasing returns to ICTs and skills investments
factors that influence the results. Against this backdrop, a
correlation analysis could shed some preliminary light on
the relationship that may exist between a particular set of
investments and the expected returns on it. Figure A presents
the relationship between the scores in the impacts subindex
and the readiness subindex showings of the NRI.
As can be seen, the relationship between the scores
of the two subindexes, while positive, does not seem to be
fully linear but rather denotes an exponential relationship,
suggesting that the higher the ICT readiness of a country is,
the proportionally higher the economic and social impacts
are. In other words, the correlation analysis suggests not
only that a cumulative effect of readiness on ICTs and skills
investments exists, but also that a minimum threshold in
complementary investments—such as direct investments in
ICT infrastructure and skills—may also exist for a country to
start attaining meaningful and raising economic and social
impacts.
These findings bear some important policy
consequences both for developing and developed
economies. For the former, a minimum set of investments in
building an ICT infrastructure and developing the necessary
skill base for its optimal exploitation is needed in order to
obtain results. This may take several years of continued
investment. For the latter, it seems that investments in ICTs
and skills development have the potential to yield increasing
returns by boosting innovation for productivity gains and
enhancing societal well-being.

In the past decade, as ICTs have become ubiquitous, policies
aimed at assessing and monitoring ICTs have shifted their
focus from determining the level of connectivity of a country
to determining the benefits that this connectivity can yield
in terms of the positive impacts to boost competitiveness
and well-being. Understanding, identifying, and measuring
all the potential impacts of ICTs are not easy tasks, notably
but not only because of a lack of data. The NRI has made
an important first step toward getting a better handle on the
benefits accruing from ICTs so that countries can improve
national innovation, enable the shift of national economic
structures toward higher-value-added activities, improve
government efficiency, and expand citizens’ access to basic
services and a broader civil participation.
Moreover, this policy shift toward assessing the impacts
of ICTs has gained importance in the current economic
context, where many developed economies face serious
financial and economic difficulties and where governments
and firms are forced to control their budgets more tightly. For
these reasons, governments and businesses face the stark
need to quantify the returns to different investment options.
Similarly, developing economies must choose between
different investment opportunities in order to render their
economic growth more stable and sustained over time.
Running an econometric model to test the causality or
provide an accurate estimate of the returns on any public
investment is statistically challenging because of the difficulty
in accounting for the totality of the potential results and
isolating the individual contribution of the many interrelated

Figure A: Correlation analysis between the NRI 2013 impact subindex and the readiness subindex

Impact subindex score, 1–7 scale

7

R² = 0.7382

6

5

4

3

2

1
1

2

3

4

5

Readiness subindex score, 1–7 scale
Source: Authors’ calculations.

26 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

6

7

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

(112th), remain limited. The perception of a lack of
clear government vision (105th) to orchestrate and
implement a holistic ICT strategy for the country, coupled
with deficiencies in the educational system for some
segments of the population (102nd), play negatively in
this process and outweigh a rather positive political and
regulatory framework for ICT development (21st) and
pro-business environment (55th).
Already in the second half of the rankings and
falling six positions this year, Rwanda is in 88th place.
This drop is the result of a certain stagnation in ICT
infrastructure development (105th) and uptake in
society (139th), despite the strong government vision
of developing the ICT industry as a priority (10th) and
its efforts to increase the number of available online
services, which nevertheless remain low (103rd). Overall,
ICT impacts remain limited (61st) because of poor ICT
infrastructure (105th) that is costly to access (116th)
and impedes ICT uptake in society. Moreover, a weak
skill base (113th), together with large segments of the
population who remain illiterate (115th) and a low tertiary
education enrollment rate (123rd), also affect Rwanda’s
capacity to fully leverage ICTs to boost innovation
and competitiveness, despite the presence of a fairly
sophisticated, stable, and strong political and regulatory
environment for the development of ICTs (13th).
In East Africa, Kenya at 92nd place climbs one
position this year. Overall, despite the government’s
strong vision for developing ICTs (28th), the country’s
overall readiness (110th) remains low because of
insufficient development of an infrastructure (110th) that
is costly to access (105th), combined with a weak skill
base (93rd) that suffers from low secondary enrollment
rates (109th) and high level of illiteracy (97th). In addition
to addressing these weaknesses to increase its digital
connectivity, the country needs to improve its business
and innovation environment (106th) in order to fully
leverage ICTs and boost their positive impacts (71st) in
the economy and society. Also in East Africa, Uganda,
Zambia, and Tanzania—in 110th, 115th, and 127th
place, respectively—suffer from strong connectivity gaps
and environments that lack the conditions to allow for a
full leverage of the benefits of ICTs.
Ghana goes up two positions to 95th place, though
the country still must overcome serious handicaps to
fully leverage ICTs. Its insufficient ICT infrastructure and
digital content development (121st), coupled with a weak
skill base (106th), result in a poor digital usage across
all agents (102nd) and, inevitably, in low economic and
social impacts (100th).
Finally, several countries in West and South Africa,
despite a wider proliferation of mobile technologies
than in past years, are positioned at the bottom of the
rankings—the consequence of insufficient development
of ICT infrastructure that hinders their ICT uptake
and results in a poor digital connectivity. Moreover,

unfavorable framework conditions for innovation and
entrepreneurship result in a poor performance in terms
of leveraging ICTs to boost innovation and raise national
productivity.
MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH AFRICA
This region boasts one of the most diverse
performances in the world. On the one hand, Israel and
several Gulf Cooperation Council states have sharply
improved their overall performances and have continued
their investments to make ICTs one of the key national
industries that attempt to diversify and transform their
economies. On the other hand, several North African
and Levantine nations have either fallen—or stagnated, in
the best cases—in their efforts to leverage ICTs as part
of their economic and social transformation toward more
knowledge-intensive activities and open societies.
Israel, in 15th position, consolidates its regional
leadership and climbs five places since last year.
Important gains derived from improving its ICT
infrastructure by increasing its international Internet
bandwidth (39th), coupled with government efforts to
expand the number of online services (15th) and online
information and participatory tools to raise the citizens’
overall participation (7th), have led to this positive
performance. The country continues to boast one of
the highest rates of ICT patents (4th), which reflects the
importance of the sector in the national economy, and an
environment that is highly conducive to innovation and
entrepreneurship (15th), despite the lengthy time it still
takes to open a business (90th) and to enforce contracts
(124th). In order to continue leveraging the full potential of
ICTs efficiently, and notwithstanding its high secondary
(26th) and tertiary (32th) education enrollments, the
country should aim at improving further the quality of
the educational system (53rd)—notably in the fields of
mathematics and science (89th)—despite certain poles
of excellence.
Leading the Arab world, Qatar (23rd) rises five
places in the rankings thanks to the government’s
sharp effort to expand its offerings of online services
(27th) and increase the online participation of citizens
(22nd). Moreover, mobile broadband subscriptions have
exploded, leaping from 9.6 percent last year (43rd) to
70.3 percent this year (11th). While fixed broadband
affordability remains a pending issue (108th)—which
may affect the level of broadband Internet subscriptions
(62nd)—the overall level of penetration and use of ICTs
(16th) is high. That, coupled with the government’s
strong vision and its commitment to rapidly develop ICTs
(2nd) as a means to diversify its economy, along with its
efforts to create a business-friendly environment (12th)
to spur entrepreneurship, have resulted in this strong
overall assessment. Going forward, in order to translate
the existing good ICT uptake into stronger economic
impacts (33rd), the country should continue investing

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 27

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

in increasing the level of university enrollment (108th)
so it can benefit from a higher local talent pool and
strengthen its overall innovation system.
The United Arab Emirates goes up five places to
25th position. As part of the country’s long-term strategy
to diversify its economy, the government has continued
to drive the development of the ICT industry decisively
and to expand the use of ICTs to all segments of the
economy and society (1st). Available government online
services (9th), as well the online participation of citizens
(11th) and the important rise in mobile broadband
subscriptions (49th), have driven this rise in the rankings.
Overall—despite the high fixed broadband Internet tariffs
(99th), which may be affecting the number of broadband
Internet subscriptions (52nd)—the country’s investments
in increasing its ICT infrastructure, especially in terms
of international Internet bandwidth (49th) and skills
upgrading (25th), have provided the right conditions for
a higher ICT uptake in the past year (23rd). Although
the country continues to boast a very favorable
business environment (17th) despite its excessive and
cumbersome, complex process for enforcing contracts
(137th), increasing the economic impacts of ICTs (28th)
in terms of more innovation and higher-value-added
activities will require higher levels of tertiary education
(84th) and a consolidation of efforts to strengthen the
national innovation system.
With a fairly stable profile, dropping two positions
to 29th place, Bahrain continues to depict a robust
performance. That assessment has been slightly
affected by the perception of a certain stagnation in
terms of the skills development that is crucial to enable
the transition of the local economy toward highervalue-added activities. Overall, the strong government
leadership for the extensive use and development of ICTs
in the country (4th) has allowed a fairly well developed
ICT infrastructure (39th), especially in terms of mobile
network coverage (1st) and despite a low international
Internet bandwidth capacity (73rd). Although the country
counts on a fairly sophisticated business environment
(14th), boosting the economic impacts derived from ICTs
(52nd) will require continued support to strengthen the
overall innovation system, especially at the business
level, which retains a very low capacity (117th).
Saudi Arabia, in 31st place, goes up three notches
in the rankings this year. This rise is driven mainly by a
fall in the cost of using ICTs (65th), a strong government
effort to expand the amount and quality of available
online services (19th), and the creation of an environment
in which citizens can increase their participation to
support government (22nd). The government’s clear
vision of the potential of ICTs to modernize and diversify
the local economy (7th) has resulted in a fairly well
developed ICT infrastructure (36th) that, together with
a business-friendly environment (25th) and despite
the still-cumbersome process for starting a business

28 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

(102nd), provides the right ingredients for properly
leveraging ICT and obtaining significant positive
economic (42nd) and social (18th) impacts. Moving
forward, skills development—by improving the quality of
the educational system, especially for math and science
(37th), and by boosting educational enrollment, especially
at tertiary level (70th)—should become a priority. This
would expand the local pool of talent and contribute to
the transition toward a less resource-dependent and
more knowledge-intensive economy (59th).
With a score identical to last year, Jordan remains
stable in 47th place, leading the group of Levantine
states where Lebanon ranks in 94th place, one
position up from last year. ICT infrastructure (81st),
notably international bandwidth capacity (97th), remains
a challenge for Jordan, and despite the efforts to
liberalize the market and render access to the existing
infrastructure affordable (27th), ICT uptake by individuals
(66th) remains low, especially in terms of broadband
subscriptions (87th).
Stable at 62nd place, Kuwait continues to lag
behind in the region in terms of leveraging ICTs, with
low levels of both social (85th) and, especially, economic
impacts (125th). Despite a very sharp rise ICT uptake
in terms of Internet users (26th) and households with
computers (38th), as well as Internet access (44th), the
country still suffers from a shortage of skills (71st). This
shortage, coupled with a low capacity to innovate (113th)
and an environment that is less business friendly (71st)
than those of other Gulf Cooperation Council states,
result in the low economic impacts.
In North Africa, Egypt boasts the strongest
performance in this year’s rankings in 80th place,
one notch down from last year. ICT infrastructure
(98th) remains underdeveloped, especially in terms of
expanding international Internet bandwidth capacity
(114th). In spite of strong efforts to render its access
affordable (8th), the penetration of ICTs in society is
modest (69th) although improving, especially in terms
of Internet users (73rd). Strengthening the technological
capacity of local firms (86th), upgrading available
skills (115th), and creating a more business friendly
environment (98th) could result in greater economic
impacts (67th) and contribute to stimulating the growth
and job opportunities the country needs.
Morocco, at 89th position, moves two notches up
in the rankings. At present, the country does not seem
to be able to fully leverage ICTs to boost the desired
economic (122nd) and social impacts (105th). A low skill
base (114th)—the result of a poor educational system
(105th), low adult literacy (130th), and low secondary
(113th) and tertiary education (103rd) enrollment rates—
and a weak innovation capacity (115th) are at the very
basis of this inability. In addition, poor infrastructure
development (95th), despite being affordable (30th),
results in fairly low levels of ICT uptake by individuals

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

(67th). Moving forward, addressing these weaknesses
will enable the country to benefit more fully from the
potential positive impacts that ICT could bring, which
would enable it to further modernize its national
economy and improve its innovation and competitiveness
capacity.
Falling 13 places, Algeria in 131st position
continues to display weak leverage of ICT, with one of
the lowest economic (143rd) and social (141st) impacts
in the sample. A poor ICT infrastructure (119th) coupled
with a weak skill base (101th) result in very low levels
of ICT usage by all agents (140th), most markedly by
businesses (144th). In addition, severe weaknesses
in its political and regulatory framework (141st) and
the absence of a business- and innovation-friendly
environment (143rd) act as strong filters that hinder the
capacity of any positive impacts to accrue.
CONCLUSIONS
The world has changed a lot in the 12 years since the
first edition of the GITR. The Internet bubble is now a
thing of the past, and many developing and emerging
economies have become global technological and
economic players achieving higher growth than more
advanced economies, which continue to struggle to
emerge from one of the worst economic crises since
the 1930s. At the same time, the world has become
increasingly hyperconnected, where the immediateness
and a sense of constant accessibility are changing
economic and social relations as well as opening a wide
range of new opportunities for new products, services,
and business models. Unsurprisingly, both developed
and developing economies have turned to ICTs as a
toolbox that can potentially boost competitiveness,
growth, and employment in this rapidly changing and
uncertain context. However, the relationships among
these objectives are complex and the interplay and
co-evolution of the many different factors render it
sometimes difficult for stakeholders to understand,
measure, and track progress and make decisions.
For more than a decade, the NRI has aimed at
shedding light on these relationships with the adoption
of a comprehensive framework that analyses the
determinants that drive the capacity of societies to
benefit from ICts and transform themselves.
Against this backdrop, the analysis of the ICT
landscape—thanks to the NRI results—reveals that in
the past year, little progress has been made in bridging
the new digital divide in terms of benefiting from higher
economic and social impacts accruing from ICTs.
Emerging and developing economies still trail significantly
behind more advanced nations. However, the situation is
not homogenous across all regions, with some countries
in the Community of Independent States, the Gulf
Cooperation Council, and ASEAN recording impressive
progress, especially in terms of strengthening their ICT

infrastructure and higher rates of ICT uptake. In other
regions, such as Latin America and Africa, progress in
improving digital connectivity has been slower. In the
large emerging BRICS economies, progress has also
been relatively slow, with China dropping in the rankings
and with India, the Russian Federation, and Brazil
recording only small gains.
Furthermore, large intra-regional differences exist.
In Latin America, for example, Panama has rapidly
developed its ICT infrastructure and improved its ICT
uptake rates. This trend has accentuated the stark intraregional disparities that appear in virtually all regions
and across developed and developing countries. Asia,
for example, is home to some of the world’s most
successful economies in the digital landscape, while
others continue to suffer from profound structural
weaknesses and an underdeveloped ICT infrastructure.
In Europe, the gap between the most advanced
Nordic economies that lead the global rankings and
those countries in Southern and Central and Eastern
Europe is remarkable—and alarming—despite the many
efforts to create an internal digital market and improve
the digital connectivity of converging countries. This
finding highlights the need to adopt harmonious and
comprehensive strategies that do not focus only on
improving access to ICTs. While important, access is
only one ingredient in the recipe for success. Improving
the ecosystem for spurring entrepreneurship and
strengthening the conditions that enhance innovation are
also crucial to boost competitiveness and well-being, to
enhance economic growth, and to create jobs.
Finally, the nonlinear relationship between the
digital readiness of a country and its economic and
social impacts suggests the existence of increasing
returns to ICTs, skills, and innovation investments. In
other words, the more that countries invest in ICTs, skill
development, and innovation, the proportionally higher
returns they achieve. Conversely, the relationship also
seems to point to a certain readiness threshold that
may hinder the ability of certain countries to achieve
any meaningful results if they do not invest sufficiently in
these dimensions.
With the GITR series and the NRI, the World
Economic Forum provides a comprehensive analytical
framework for assessing not only the progress made
in raising ICT connectivity in different countries, but
also—and more importantly—in obtaining the desired
economic and social impacts that higher connectivity
can yield in generating growth and high-quality
employment in a rapidly changing context. Designed
and produced as a framework for multi-stakeholder
dialogue, it also serves to identify and define policies
and measures that can catalyze change toward better
leveraging ICTs and achieve its full potential.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 29

Chapter 1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

NOTES
	 1	 Jipp 1963.
	 2	 Katz 2012, p. 2.
	 3	 Katz 2012, p. 3.
	 4	 For detailed information of the Forum’s Executive Opinion Survey,
including the instrument, coverage administration, data edition,
and score computation, refer to the dedicated chapter in The
Global Competitiveness Report 2012–2013, available at www.
weforum.org/gcr.
	 5	 The assessment of Taiwan’s networked readiness is based on
partial data because a number of international organizations
provide only limited data.
	 6	 See World Economic Forum 2012.
	 7	 See the European Commission’s Digital Agenda, available at
http://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/.
	 8	 The assessment of Hong Kong’s networked readiness is based
on partial data because of its limited coverage by a number of
international organizations.
	9	BRICS economies is a term used to refer to a group of five large
emerging economies: Brazil, the Russian Federation, India, China,
and South Africa.
	 10	 See http://www.summit-americas.org/default_en.htm.

REFERENCES
European Commission. Digital Agenda for Europe: A Europe 2020
Initiative. Available at http://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/.
ITU (International Telecommunication Union). 2012. World
Telecomunication/ICT Indicators Database (December 2012
edition.) Available at http://www.itu.int/ITU-D/ict/publications/
world/world.html.
Jipp, A. 1963. “Wealth of Nations and Telephone Density.”
Telecommunications Journal (July): 199–201.
Katz, R. 2012. The Impact of Broadband on the Economy: Research
to Date and Policy Issues. ITU Broadband Series, April. Geneva:
ITU. Available at http://www.itu.int/ITU-D/treg/broadband/ITU-BBReports_Impact-of-Broadband-on-the-Economy.pdf.
World Economic Forum. 2012. The Global Competitiveness Report
2012–2013. Geneva: World Economic Forum. Available at www.
weforum.org/gcr.

30 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Appendix A:
Structure and computation of the Networked Readiness Index 2013

This appendix presents the structure of the Networked
Readiness Index 2013 (NRI). As explained in the chapter,
the NRI framework separates environmental factors
from ICT readiness, usage, and impact. That distinction
is reflected in the NRI structure, which comprises four
subindexes. Each subindex is in turn divided into a
number of pillars, for a total of 10. The 54 individual
indicators used in the computation of the NRI are
distributed among the 10 pillars.
In the list below, the number preceding the period
indicates the pillar to which the variable belongs (e.g.,
indicator 2.05 belongs to the 2nd pillar; indicator 8.03
belongs to the 8th pillar). The numbering of the indicators
matches the numbering of the data tables at the end of
the Report.
The computation of the NRI is based on successive
aggregations of scores, from the indicator level (i.e., the
most disaggregated level) to the overall NRI score (i.e.,
the highest level). Unless noted otherwise, we use an
arithmetic mean to aggregate individual indicators within
each pillar and also for higher aggregation levels (i.e.,
pillars and subindexes).a
Throughout the Report, scores in the various
dimensions of the NRI pillars are reported with a
precision of two decimal points. However, exact figures
are always used at every step of the computation of the
NRI.
Variables that are derived from the World Economic
Forum’s Executive Opinion Survey (the Survey) are
identified here by an asterisk (*). All the other indicators
come from external sources, as described in the
Technical Notes and Sources section at the end of the
Report. These variables are transformed into a 1-to-7
scale in order to align them with the Survey’s results. We
apply a min-max transformation, which preserves the
order of, and the relative distance between, scores.b

NETWORKED READINESS INDEX 2013
	 Networked Readiness
	
Index 	=
		 +
		 +
		 +

	1/4
	1/4
	1/4
	1/4

Environment subindex
Readiness subindex
Usage subindex
Impact subindex

ENVIRONMENT SUBINDEX
	 Environment subindex 	= 	1/2 Political and regulatory
				environment
		 +	 1/2 Business and innovation
				environment
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01	 Effectiveness of law-making bodies*
1.02	 Laws relating to ICTs*
1.03	 Judicial independence*
1.04	 Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes*c
1.05	 Efficiency of legal system in challenging
regulations*c
1.06	 Intellectual property protection*
1.07	 Software piracy rate, % software installed
1.08	 Number of procedures to enforce a contractd
1.09	 Number of days to enforce a contractd
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01	 Availability of latest technologies*
2.02	 Venture capital availability*
2.03	 Total tax rate, % profits
2.04	 Number of days to start a businesse
2.05	 Number of procedures to start a businesse
2.06	 Intensity of local competition*
2.07	 Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %
2.08	 Quality of management schools*
2.09	 Government procurement of advanced technology
products*

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 31

1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

READINESS SUBINDEX

IMPACT SUBINDEX

	 Readiness subindex 	= 	1/3 Infrastructure and digital content
		 + 	1/3 Affordability
		 + 	1/3 Skills

	
Impact subindex 	= 	1/2 Economic impacts
		 +	 1/2 Social impacts
9th pillar: Economic impacts
9.01	 Impact of ICTs on new services and products*
9.02	 PCT ICT patent applications per million population
9.03	 Impact of ICTs on new organizational models*
9.04	 Employment in knowledge-intensive activities, %
workforce

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01	 Electricity production, kWh/capita
3.02	 Mobile network coverage, % population
3.03	 International Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user
3.04	 Secure Internet servers per million population
3.05	 Accessibility of digital content*
4th pillar: Affordabilityf
4.01	 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min.
4.02	 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month
4.03	 Internet and telephony sectors competition index, 0–2
(best)
5th pillar: Skills
5.01	 Quality of educational system*
5.02	 Quality of math and science education*
5.03	 Secondary education gross enrollment rate, %
5.04	 Adult literacy rate, %

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01	Impact of ICTs on access to basic services*
10.02	Internet access in schools*
10.03	ICT use and government efficiency*
10.04	E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)

NOTES
	 a	 Formally, for a category i composed of K indicators, we have:
K

categoryi



K

		 When two individual indicators are averaged (e.g., indicators 1.04)
and 1.05 in the 1st pillar), each receives half the weight of a normal
indicator.

USAGE SUBINDEX
	
Usage subindex 	= 	1/3 Individual usage
		 + 	1/3 Business usage
		 + 	1/3 Government usage

	 b	 Formally, we have:
	

6th pillar: Individual usage
6.01	 Mobile phone subscriptions per 100 population
6.02	 Percentage of individuals using the Internet
6.03	 Percentage of households with computer
6.04	 Households with Internet access, %
6.05	 Fixed broadband Internet subscriptions per 100
population
6.06	 Mobile broadband Internet subscriptions per 100
population
6.07	 Use of virtual social networks*

	

6 x

(

country score – sample minimum	
sample maximum – sample minimum

)

+ 1

		The sample minimum and sample maximum are, respectively, the
lowest and highest country scores in the sample of economies
covered by the GCI. In some instances, adjustments were made
to account for extreme outliers. For those indicators for which
a higher value indicates a worse outcome (i.e., indicators 1.07,
1.08, 1.09, 2.03, 2.04, 2.05, 4.01, and 4.02), the transformation
formula takes the following form, thus ensuring that 1 and 7
still corresponds to the worst and best possible outcomes,
respectively:
	

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01	 Firm-level technology absorption*
7.02	 Capacity for innovation*
7.03	 PCT patent applications per million population
7.04	 Business-to-business Internet use*g
7.05	 Business-to-consumer Internet use*g
7.06	 Extent of staff training*

	

–6 x

(

country score – sample minimum	
sample maximum – sample minimum

)

+ 7

	 c	 For indicators 1.04 and 1.05, the average of the respective scores
is used in the computation of the NRI.
	 d	 For indicators 1.08 and 1.09, the average of the respective
normalized scores is used in the computation of the NRI.
	 e	 For indicators 2.04 and 2.05, the average of the respective
normalized scores is used in the computation of the NRI.

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01	 Importance of ICTs to government vision of the future*
8.02	 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)
8.03	 Government success in ICT promotion*

32 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

 indicatork

k=1

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.1: The Networked Readiness Index 2013

	

f	 The affordability pillar is computed as follows: the average of the
normalized scores of indicators 4.01 mobile cellular tariffs and
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs is multiplied by a competition
factor, the value of which is derived from indicator 4.03 Internet
and telephony sectors competition index. It corresponds to the
score achieved by an economy on this indicator normalized
on a scale from 0.75 (worst) to 1.00 (best), using the min-max
transformation described above. A normalized score of 0.75
is assigned to an economy with a competition index score of
0, which means that a monopolistic situation prevails in the 19
categories of ICT services considered. A normalized score of
1.00 is assigned to an economy where all 19 categories are fully
liberalized. Where data are missing for indicator 4.03 (i.e., Puerto
Rico and Timor-Leste), the score on the affordability pillar, which
is simply the average of the normalized scores of indicators 4.01
and 4.02, is used. For example, Tanzania obtains a score of 1.00
on the competition index. This translates into a competition factor
of 0.875, which multiplies 2.944, corresponding to the average
of Tanzania’s normalized scores on the two tariff measures.
Tanzania’s score on the affordability pillar therefore is 2.576
(130th). The competition index score for Taiwan, China, was
derived from national sources.

	 g	 For indicators 7.04 and 7.05, the average of the respective scores
is used in the computation of the NRI. For Albania, Ecuador,
Georgia, Rwanda, and Sri Lanka, these two indicators are
replaced by an indicator derived from the 2010 and 2011 editions
of the Executive Opinion Survey. The associated question was: “To
what extent do companies in your country use the Internet for their
business activities? (e.g., buying and selling goods, interacting with
customers and suppliers) [1 = not at all; 7 = extensively].” Results
for these countries are presented in The Global Information
Technology Report 2012 (p.371) available at www.weforum.org/gitr.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 33

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.2

Digitization for Economic
Growth and Job Creation:
Regional and Industry
Perspectives
KARIM SABBAGH
ROMAN FRIEDRICH
BAHJAT EL-DARWICHE
MILIND SINGH
ALEX KOSTER

Booz & Company

Digitization—the mass adoption of connected digital
services by consumers, enterprises, and governments—
has emerged in recent years as a key economic driver
that accelerates growth and facilitates job creation. In
the current environment of a sluggish global economy,
digitization can play an important role in assisting
policymakers to spur economic growth and employment.
Booz & Company’s econometric analysis estimates
that, despite the unfavorable global economic climate,
digitization provided a US$193 billion boost to world
economic output and created 6 million jobs globally in
2011.1
However, the impact of digitization by country
and by sector is uneven. Developed economies enjoy
higher economic growth benefits by a factor of almost
25 percent, although they tend to lag behind emerging
economies in job creation by a similar margin. The
main reason for the differing effects of digitization is
the economic structures of developed and emerging
economies. Developed countries rely chiefly on domestic
consumption, which makes nontradable sectors
important. Across developed economies, digitization
improves productivity and has a measurable effect on
growth. However, the result can be job losses because
lower-skill, lower-value-added work is sent abroad
to emerging markets, where labor is cheaper. By
contrast, emerging markets are more export-oriented
and driven by tradable sectors. They tend to gain more
from digitization’s effect on employment than from its
influence on growth.
Policymakers can harness these varying effects
of digitization through three main measures, which
go beyond their current roles of setting policy and
regulations. First, they should create digitization plans
for targeted sectors in which they wish to maximize the
impact of digitization. Second, they should encourage
the development of the necessary capabilities and
enablers to achieve these digitization plans. Finally,
policymakers should work in concert with industry,
consumers, and government agencies to establish an
inclusive information and communication technologies
(ICT) ecosystem that encourages greater uptake and
usage of digital services.
DIGITIZATION’S ECONOMIC IMPACT
Throughout the world, ICTs continue to proliferate at
breakneck speed, but their effects are uneven across
countries and sectors. In late 2011, the number of mobile
telephones in the United States exceeded the country’s
population. By early 2012, the number of mobile lines
worldwide was more than 6 billion—nearly as many

The authors wish to thank the following for their contributions to this
chapter: Raul Katz, Columbia Business School; Pantelis Koutroumpis,
Imperial College, London; and Rawia Abdel Samad, Oussama Ahmad,
and Sandeep Ganediwalla of Booz & Company.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 35

1.2: Digitization for Economic Growth and Job Creation

Box 1: Measuring digitization
Booz & Company’s Digitization Index is a composite score
that calculates the level of a country’s digitization using 23
indicators to measure the following six key attributes:
•	 Ubiquity: The extent to which consumers and enterprises have universal access to digital services and
applications.
•	 Affordability: The extent to which digital services are
priced in a range that makes them available to as
many people as possible.
•	 Reliability: The quality of available digital services.
•	 Speed: The extent to which digital services can be
accessed in real time.
•	 Usability: The ease of use of digital services and the
ability of local ecosystems to boost the adoption of
these services.
•	 Skill: The ability of users to incorporate digital services
into their lives and businesses.
The Digitization Index measures a country’s level
of digitization on a scale of 0 to 100, with 100 signifying
the most advanced, to identify its distinct stage of digital
development: constrained, emerging, transitional, or
advanced.
Source: Sabbagh et al., 2012.

as the global population of around 7 billion. Internet
penetration is not as deep, but with global Internet
access growing more than fivefold in recent years, and
with increases of more than 20-fold during the past
decade in regions such as the Middle East and Africa, a
similar ubiquity may not be far off.
Access to ICT services is no longer the primary
issue facing policymakers. Instead, the critical question is
how to maximize the adoption, utilization, and impact of
these services. Digitization has emerged as a key driver
and enabler of socioeconomic benefits.
In 2012, Booz & Company set out to quantify the
impact of digitization by creating an index that scores
digitization by country (Box 1). This analysis allows us to
go beyond anecdotal evidence of the effect of digitization
to measure its level and the actual impact it has on
economic and social factors. The research highlights
the notion that countries that have increased their
digitization level have realized gains in their economies,
their societies, and the functioning of their public sectors.
Indeed, the more advanced a country becomes in
terms of digitization, the greater the benefits—increased
digitization yields improving returns. These effects
are not evenly distributed by the level of economic
development or by the sector.
The ability of digitization to boost output and
employment has measurable global effects. Digitization
has provided an additional US$193 billion to the world

36 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

economy and 6 million jobs worldwide in 2011. The
most advanced economies (North America and Western
Europe) accounted for approximately 29 percent of
the output gain, but just 6 percent of the employment
impact. Emerging economies accounted for 71 percent
of the gain in gross domestic product (GDP) and 94
percent of the global employment impact (Table 1).
Impact on GDP per capita
Our analysis reveals that an increase of 10 percent in a
country’s digitization score fuels a 0.75 percent growth
in its GDP per capita. As an economic accelerant,
digitization therefore is 4.7 times more powerful than the
0.16 percent average impact of broadband deployment
on per capita GDP, according to several previous
studies.2 Additionally, the economic effect of digitization
accelerates as countries move to more advanced
stages of digitization. Digitally constrained economies
receive the least benefit, largely because they have yet
to establish an ICT ecosystem that can capitalize on the
benefits of digitization.
In 2011, East Asia, Western Europe, and Latin
America received the greatest total GDP per capita
impact from digitization, surpassing North America. The
impact of digitization improvements in East Asia and
Latin America was higher than that in North America and
Western Europe, even though these regions have lower
GDP impact coefficients. This is because the economies
in East Asia and Latin America are still at the transitional
stage and were able to achieve the biggest digitization
leaps. Eastern Europe and Africa benefited the least from
their digitization gains in terms of their impact on GDP.
Impact on unemployment
Digitization creates jobs, with a 10 point increase in
the digitization score leading to a 1.02 percent drop in
the unemployment rate. This is 4.6 times greater than
the effect that the widespread adoption of broadband
has on reducing unemployment; broadband cuts the
unemployment rate by just 0.22 percent.3
In 2011, digitization had the greatest employment
effect in constrained and emerging digitized economies.
East Asia, South Asia, and Latin America received the
most employment growth of all regions, with more
than 4 million jobs created as a result of these regions’
digitization improvements. Conversely, digitization
provided little employment growth in North America and
Western Europe. These advanced-stage economies
probably realize fewer employment benefits because, as
their digitization increases, their productivity improves;
some jobs get replaced by technology; and lower-valueadded, labor-intensive tasks go overseas to emerging
markets where labor is cheaper.
By contrast, digitization has more significant
employment effects in emerging markets for three
main reasons. First, the digitization gain in some

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.2: Digitization for Economic Growth and Job Creation

emerging regions is higher than it is in the advanced
economies. Second, some of these regions have very
large populations (e.g., China and India), which means
that a marginal improvement in the unemployment rate
leads to a large number of jobs. Finally, offshoring grows
in tandem with digitization. As companies in digitally
advanced countries improve their productivity thanks
to digitization, they transfer jobs to digitally emerging
countries.
DIGITIZATION’S SECTORAL IMPACT
To understand the marked differences in impact
that digitization has in terms of productivity and job
creation across emerging and developed economies,
we first need to understand how digitization affects
the functioning of any enterprise. A typical company’s
functions can be broken down into four areas: business,
go-to-market, production, and operations. Digitization
has a profound and accelerating impact across these
strategies.
•	 Business: Digitization is fundamentally reshaping
business models. It is lowering barriers to entry
and expanding market reach for enterprises.
For example, it is possible for Skype to provide
telephony to more than 500 million users globally
using voice over Internet protocol (VoIP) technology,
fundamentally disrupting business models for
operators worldwide and forcing many to launch
their own VoIP business models in response.
•	 Go-to-market: Digitization is changing how
companies build brands and products,
communicate, and provide services to their
customers. Companies are increasingly relying
on social media to build brands. More and more,
subscribers are forming their purchase opinions
online, even for items that they then buy offline.
Close to 40 percent of those online actually use
the web to research items that they buy in physical
outlets. Digitization is also enabling companies
to create products tailored to customers’ tastes.
For example, BMW offers a build-your-own-BMW
online service, which allows for more than a million
different combinations in the finished product.
The role of the web as a retail channel is causing
substantial disruptions, with companies significantly
expanding market reach, leading to the emergence
of new winners and losers. Starting from roughly
the same position in 2001, Amazon.com grew its
annual sales from US$3.1 billion to US$48 billion in
2011, while the brick-and-mortar retailer Borders lost
market share and ultimately filed for bankruptcy.
•	 Production: Digitization is also changing the way
companies manage their production assets. It

Table 1: Digitization’s impact on GDP and jobs, 2011
	

Regional impact
	
Region	

GDP impact	
(US$ billions)	

Africa	
Commonwealth of Independent States	
East Asia and the Pacific	
Eastern Europe	
Latin America and the Caribbean	
Middle East and North Africa	
North America	
South Asia	
Western Europe	
Total	

Number of
jobs created

8.3	618,699
11.8	
340,820
55.8	
2,370,241
7.0	
159,015
27.0	
636,737
16.5	
377,772
25.3	
167,650
9.4	
1,117,753
31.5	
213,578
192.6	6,002,266

Source: Booz & Company analysis.

has enabled companies to move labor-intensive
tasks to emerging economies while competing to
develop the best design and user interface. For
example, Samsung acts as a supplier to Apple for
its iPhone products, but both compete aggressively
in the consumer market by trying to differentiate
themselves in their design and user interface.
Digitization is also leading to the emergence of new
manufacturing technologies, with the advent of 3-D
printing creating a new way to manufacture complex
products and leading to the import of jobs back to
developed economies.
•	 Operations: Finally, digitization has had the greatest
impact on the way companies organize and operate
to generate competitive advantage. Digitization has
created more global entities, seamlessly in touch
across continents, and has redefined the concept of
office space. One in four American workers regularly
telecommutes, a fact that has a profound impact on
how companies organize and manage resources.
Digitization is also allowing companies to outsource
or completely automate a number of their back-end
functions, enabling them to become more efficient.
The type and extent of the impact that digitization
has on a sector of the economy is determined mainly
by the interaction of the four areas outlined above. For
example, if digitization significantly enhances market
access, then job growth will be more likely in that sector.
However, if digitization primarily drives efficiency growth
but does not lead to new market creation, then that
sector is likely to lose jobs.
To better understand these dynamics, we examined
five key economic activities in developed markets that
would yield conclusions that can guide policy responses.
We identified these five areas by initially dividing the
overall economy into three major sectors: primary,
secondary, and tertiary.4 The primary sector relates
to agriculture, farming, and mining—the extraction,
collection, and primary processing of natural materials.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 37

1.2: Digitization for Economic Growth and Job Creation

Figure 1: Digitization impact on output, productivity, and employment

1a:	 Impact by industry, developed markets

Sector

1.98

service
service

Manufacturing
Manufacturing

1.34

Services
Services

1.27

Hospitality
Hospitality

2.82

1.19

Retail
Retail

Industry
employment
(implied)

Industry
productivity
(% growth)

Industry output
(% growth)

Financial
Financial

1b:	Employment growth by industry,
closely knit economies (2006–08)

1.52

1.79

0.71

1.00

0.41

Sector

United States
(% growth)

Mexico
(% growth)

–3

16

–5

2

t

Financial

t

Manufacturing

s

Retail

2

5

s

Services

2

7

s

Hospitality

2

13

service

Source: Booz & Company.
Notes: Services refers to overall services other than financial services. Data for 1a are from six OECD countries: Australia, Germany, Norway, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
These data are based on a 10 percent increase in digitization.

The secondary sector encompasses manufacturing—the
making, building, and assembling of finished products.
The tertiary sector provides services to consumers
and businesses and includes retailers, transportation
and entertainment companies, banks, and healthcare
providers.
We focused our analysis on subsectors in the
secondary and tertiary sectors, where activities affected
by digitization tend to cluster—financial services,
manufacturing, retail, and hospitality (digitization has
less effect on the primary sector). We also looked at
the impact on the overall services sector. We looked at
these subsectors in six advanced-digitization countries—
which are also developed economies and members
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD)—Australia, Germany, Norway,
Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Our econometric analysis used three industry metrics:
output, productivity, and employment. Output measures
the subsector’s contribution to GDP. Productivity
determines the subsector’s level of value-added per
employee. Employment tracks the number of workers in
each subsector.
This analysis allows an understanding of how
the positive national effect of digitization plays out
differently in economic subsectors. For example, we
estimate that, in Germany, approximately 8.7 percent of
the rate of change in GDP between 2010 and 2011 is
attributable to advances in digitization. Its contribution
to employment was lower: 7.7 percent of the jobs

38 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

added in Germany between 2010 and 2011 came
from increased digitization. There is a clear relationship
between productivity gains and job losses, as shown by
the results for financial services and manufacturing. By
contrast, other subsectors increased employment and
output, although their productivity grew at a slower pace
(Figure 1).
As digitization increases, financial services gain
the most in terms of output and productivity. Increased
digitization, however, cut jobs in financial services and
manufacturing because productivity gains surpassed
output gains. Conversely, digitization created jobs in
services subsectors, with particularly notable gains in the
hospitality and retail subsectors.
Although there are insufficient data to study how
digitization leads to job creation in certain sectors in
emerging markets, evidence from two closely knit
economies—the United States and Mexico—illustrates
the overall trend (Figure 1b). Financial services and
manufacturing businesses in the Unites States shed jobs
because they were able to transfer labor-intensive or
support activities to Mexico, where labor costs are lower.
Companies took advantage of offshoring for operations,
logistics, customer care, legal, and communications
services. The productivity gains in financial services and
manufacturing were a result of this ability to decrease
labor costs while increasing output. The net result
was a 6 percent decline in the number of jobs in the
US tradable sectors between 2002 and 2009 and a

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.2: Digitization for Economic Growth and Job Creation

Figure 2: Sector digitization plans and capability design needs: Digital market makers’ approach

Design sector digitization plans
National
vision

Build capabilities and enablers

Jump-start and monitor ecosystem

Right-to-win
capabilities

PRIORITY SECTORS
Retail

Hospitality

Financial

Healthcare

Manufacturing

Others

CAPABILITIES
Development

Facilitation

Prioritized
sectors

Capabilities

Financing

ICT Sector
ENABLERS

TRADE-OFFS
Job
creation

Productivity
gain

Capital

Infrastructure

Skills

Governance

Impact

Demand

Source: Booz & Company.

concomitant 15.2 percent increase of employment in
tradable sectors in Mexico during the same years.5
The effect on retail—rising employment with some
output and productivity growth—demonstrates how
a proper measurement of digitization is superior to
anecdotal evidence. A superficial look indicates that
small retailers are closing because of online shopping.
Instead, advancing digitization in retail actually creates
new markets and new employment opportunities.
Retailers are expanding internationally. As their reach
spreads, their supply chains become more complex
and require more people to manage them. The impact
on the hospitality industry is similar, with new business
models emerging and new markets created. Digitization
allows for improved inventory management and higher
occupancy rates, both of which are useful when dealing
with nonfungible items such as airline seats or hotel
rooms.
The extent of productivity gains experienced by
the subsectors is also highly correlated to the extent of
digitization seen in these sectors. In Booz & Company’s
2011 publication, Measuring Industry Digitization:
Leaders and Laggards in the Digital Economy, we
established that the most digitized sector is financial
services, followed by manufacturing, retail, and
hospitality.6 Productivity impact in these sectors follows
the same order, with financial services leading the pack
and hospitality benefitting the least from the sectors
covered.

POLICY IMPLICATIONS
As the spread and depth of digitization increases
globally, so do its roles as a key driver of growth
and as a source of national competitive advantage.
Policymakers have focused until now on improving the
reach and affordability of ICT services—most recently
facilitating, and even investing in, large-scale broadband
deployment. Though important, this is just one part of
the story. Policymakers in the future need to become
digital market makers—creators of a digital economy that
provides its citizens, enterprises, and economic sectors
with the competitive advantage essential to thrive in an
increasingly global market.
Becoming a digital market maker requires
policymakers to undertake three activities: designing
sector digitization plans, building capabilities, and
jump-starting and monitoring the wider digitization
ecosystem (Figure 2). In designing sector digitization
plans, policymakers should seek to develop competitive
advantage and generate jobs in sectors that are already
critical to the national economy. Policymakers should
then foster the development of capabilities and enablers
necessary to achieve these digitization plans. Finally,
policymakers should work in concert with industry,
consumers, and government agencies to jump-start and
continuously monitor an inclusive digitization ecosystem
that will encourage the uptake of digital applications in
these sectors and that will keep them competitive.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 39

1.2: Digitization for Economic Growth and Job Creation

Design sector digitization plans
The rapidly accelerating pace of digitization means that
policymakers are not in a position to be able to spread
their efforts across all sectors. First they must determine
which sectors will provide, or are providing, national
competitive advantage and decide how digitization can
reinforce these trends. Second, they need to explicitly
understand the trade-offs between job creation and
productivity growth that increasing digitization will bring.
For example, accelerating digitization in manufacturing in
most OECD countries will lead to significant productivity
gains, but also job losses. Finally, policymakers need
to work closely with national leaders to identify and
understand these trade-offs up front, and then work on
mechanisms to offset potential job losses.
For example, Singapore’s digitization agenda
seeks to increase competitiveness in targeted sectors
while promoting social welfare. In particular, ports play
a vital role in this export-driven island economy. The
Infocomm Development Authority of Singapore and
the Maritime and Port Authority of Singapore (MPA)
have therefore jointly launched WISEPORT, the world’s
first port WiMax (a fast wireless standard) network that
provides coverage within 15 kilometers of the southern
coastline. In addition, the MPA has established a fund
that encourages maritime technology, resulting in digital
initiatives such as the intelligent bunker management
system and SingTel AlTrac, a secure global satellite
tracking system, built by the incumbent operator SingTel.
Build capabilities
Becoming a digital market maker requires policymakers
first to adopt a holistic ecosystem perspective. ICTs
range beyond basic infrastructure, and policymakers
need to look at a multilayered ICT ecosystem
categorized in 42 buckets to understand what role they
need to play in each to enable creation of digital markets
(Figure 3).
Where the private sector does not have sufficient
incentive to undertake the development of critical digital
infrastructure, the state needs to play the role of a
developer, becoming a participant in the market—either
directly or through a public-private partnership. Finland,
for example, has developed the VTT Technical Research
Centre, which provides multidisciplinary research and
development services to both the public and private
sectors. In another case, Malaysia has launched the
MyHealth initiative, which allows online provision of a
range of healthcare services to the nation’s population.
Where there are opportunities for the private sector
but the risks are high or the returns are not guaranteed,
the state can play the role of financier. Examples include
Australia’s Digital Enterprise initiative, which seeks to
increase digital participation by small- and medium-sized
enterprises and civil society organizations.

40 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

If there are opportunities and the private sector is
undertaking the necessary activities, the state can play
the role of a facilitator—a role with functions that range
from being a regulator to being a demand stimulator
of digital services. Examples here include the training
programs launched by telecommunications authorities in
Japan and the Republic of Korea.
Choosing which role to play and finding the right
partnerships for executing that role represent a new
set of capability challenges for policymakers. Building
a digital market would require them to master all three
capabilities and then identify, in a targeted manner,
which roles they will play and in which sectors.
Finally, the ability to play these roles will be
influenced by the presence (or absence) of basic
enablers in the economy: capital, access to cuttingedge thinking, and digital infrastructure. Policymakers
need to ensure the development of world-class research
bodies; the availability of seed and venture capital; and
the development of reliable, high-quality infrastructure.
For example, Saudi Arabia is trying to develop worldclass research institutes in the King Abdullah University
of Science and Technology, while also setting up an
incubator in the King Abdulaziz City for Science and
Technology and working with operators to ensure the
availability of high-speed digital infrastructure. Another
example is Germany’s ICT 2020 plan, which provides
funding to small- and medium-sized businesses engaged
in research and development activities within the ICT
sector.7
Jump-start and monitor the wider digitization
ecosystem
The challenge for all stakeholders has been to monitor
the execution and the impact of the digital ecosystem.
Investing in digitization requires more than a leap of faith;
it necessitates that policymakers measure, track, and
demonstrate conclusively the significant impact of every
dollar that is invested in digitization. This is especially
critical now, when most countries in the developed world
are gripped by fiscal austerity measures. A partnership
that includes institutions such as the International
Telecommunication Union, the United Nations, the
OECD, Eurostat, and the World Bank has defined a list
of 48 core ICT indicators in an attempt to harmonize
tracking at a global level.8
Policymakers need to institutionalize systems to
measure and monitor the progress of ICTs, and monitor
the progress of digitization against those plans, while
creating accountability for their digitization targets. This is
a challenging process for two reasons. First, monitoring
the progress of a national plan takes years and requires
balancing social and economic interests. Policymakers
need to ensure that government leaders fully understand
and endorse the measurements, goals, and trade-offs
between these interests. Second, there is currently

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.2: Digitization for Economic Growth and Job Creation

Figure 3: A holistic ecosystem perspective

Layer 1

Layer 2

Layer 3
Managed services
Integration services
Services
Support services
Online services

Information technology

Software

Software development

Digital media

Digital content
End-user equipment

Hardware

IT equipment
Hardware components
WIreless

Service provision

Wireline
Interconnection

Communication
WIreless
Network equipment
(hardware & proprietary software)

Wireline
Interconnection

Layer 3
Managed services

Layer 4
Application management services

Integration services
Support services

Hosting infrastructure services

Systems integration

Product assembly

Maintenance & support

IT consulting

Online services
Software development
Digital content
End-user equipment
IT equipment

Research & development

ICT education & training

Online platforms
Packaged applications

Gaming

Content creation

Customized applications

Systems software

Content aggregation

PCs & peripherals

Laptops

Content distribution

Tablets

Data center equipment (servers, storage, etc.)

Handheld devices

Multimedia devices

Network equipment (routers, hubs, switches, etc.)

Hardware components

Semiconductor devices

Electronic components

Microprocessor devices

Sensors (RFIDs, M2M,etc.)

WIreless

Wireless operators

MVNOs

Support services*

Tower companies

Wireline
Interconnection

Wireline operators

ISPs

Terrestrial

Submarine

Support services
Satellite

WIreless

Wireless network equipment

Wireline

Wireline network equipment

Interconnection

Cable

Support services

Satellite

Source: Booz & Company.
Note: ISP = Internet service provider; M2M = machine to machine; MVNO = mobile virtual network operator; RFID = radio-frequency identification.
* Wireless support services include operations and maintenance, and data clearing.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 41

1.2: Digitization for Economic Growth and Job Creation

no standard, replicable tool to measure digitization on
which policymakers, economists, and private-sector
stakeholders agree. Policymakers need to invest the time
and effort required to ensure that all sector participants
agree to a consistent set of metrics.
CONCLUSION
Ever since Adam Smith proposed the theory of absolute
advantage enjoyed by a country in producing a good or
service, policymakers have sought to build and maintain
this advantage in key sectors of their economies.
Digitization is emerging as a new tool to build and
sustain such absolute advantages, and in some cases
even to claim the “right to win” and beat the competition
in certain sectors—a critical capability that underpins all
other national economic efforts.
Creating digital markets and boosting digitization
can yield significant economic benefits and lead to
substantial social benefits to societies and communities.
Digitization has the potential to boost productivity, create
new jobs, and enhance the quality of life for society at
large. For example, if emerging markets could double
the Digitization Index score for their poorest citizens over
the next 10 years, the result would be a global US$4.4
trillion gain in nominal GDP, an extra US$930 billion in
the cumulative household income for the poorest, and
64 million new jobs for today’s socially and economically
most marginal groups. This would enable 580 million
people to climb above the poverty line.9
If policymakers want to capture these rich returns,
then they need to go back to the drawing board and
figure out how they can build their digital markets—the
markets where the bulk of the world’s information and
goods will be bought and sold in the upcoming decade
of digitization.

REFERENCES
BMBF (Federal Ministry of Education and Research). 2007. ICT 2020:
Research for Innovations. Berlin: Federal Ministry of Education and
Research (BMBF). Available at http://www.bmbf.de/pub/ict_2020.
pdf.
El-Darwiche, B., A. Sharma, M. Singh, and R. Abdel Samad. 2012.
Digitization in Emerging Economies: Unleashing Opportunities at
the Bottom of the Pyramid. Beirut: Booz & Company. Available
at http://www.booz.com/media/uploads/BoozCo_Digitization-inEmerging-Economies.pdf.
Friedrich, R., F. Gröne, A. Koster, and M. Le Merle. 2011. Measuring
Industry Digitization: Leaders and Laggards in the Digital Economy.
Düsseldorf: Booz & Company. Available at http://www.booz.com/
media/uploads/BoozCo-Measuring-Industry-Digitization-LeadersLaggards-Digital-Economy.pdf.
Katz, R., and P. Koutroumpis. 2012. “Measuring Socio-Economic
Digitization: A Paradigm Shift,” Social Science Research Network.
Available at http://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_
id=2070035.
Katz, R., S. Vaterlaus, P. Zenhäusern, and S. Suter. 2010. “The Impact
of Broadband on Jobs and the German Economy.” Intereconomics
45 (1): 26–34. Available at http://www.intereconomics.eu/
downloads/getfile.php?id=721&human=1.
Koutroumpis, P. 2009. “The Economic Impact of Broadband on Growth:
A Simultaneous Approach.” Telecommunications Policy 33 (9):
471–85. Available at http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0308596109000767.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development).
OECD.StatExtracts (database). Available at http://stats.oecd.org/.
Sabbagh, K., R. Friedrich, B. El-Darwiche, and M. Singh. 2012.
Maximizing the Impact of Digitization. Beirut: Booz & Company.
Available at http://www.booz.com/media/uploads/BoozCo_
Maximizing-the-Impact-of-Digitization.pdf.

NOTES
	 1	 Booz & Company analysis. We have estimated the GDP and
employment impact caused by the increased digitization in most
countries and aggregated to get the global impact.
	 2	 Koutroumpis 2009; Katz and Koutroumpis 2012; Katz et al. 2010.
	 3	 Koutroumpis 2009; Katz and Koutroumpis 2012; Katz et al. 2010.
	 4	 For an explanation of these three sectors, see The Times 100
Business Case Studies, available at http://businesscasestudies.
co.uk/business-theory/strategy/primary-secondary-and-tertiaryactivity.html#axzz2EifjmtUr.
	 5	 OECD.Stat; http://stats.oecd.org/.
	 6	 Friedrich et al. 2011.
	 7	 BMBF 2007.
	 8	 For more on the core list of indicators, see http://www.itu.int/
ITU-D/ict/coreindicators/index.html.
	 9	 El-Darwiche et al. 2012.

42 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.3

Convergent Objectives,
Divergent Strategies: A
Taxonomy of National
Broadband and ICT Plans
ROBERT PEPPER
JOHN GARRITY

Cisco Systems

High-speed broadband Internet Protocol (IP) networks
have become integral to daily life. As one of the few
general-purpose technologies, broadband is becoming
increasingly pervasive, continually improving and
catalyzing new inventions and innovations.1
At the national level, governments have recognized
broadband’s significant contribution to economic
performance as well as social development. The UN
Broadband Commission estimates that 119 countries
have implemented broadband policies; during the global
economic crisis of 2008 and 2009, at least a dozen
countries included broadband network investment in
their countercyclical fiscal stimulus measures.2
However, the surge in formal broadband policies
highlights the variation in action across countries. A
critical question now is whether the divergence in policy
packages will result in significant differences in the
efficacy of plans. To begin this research and establish
a foundation for understanding the global landscape of
national broadband and information and communication
technology (ICT) plans, this chapter reviews plans
around the world and presents a taxonomy for
classification. First, we detail the existing relationship
among broadband, economic growth, and employment.
Second, we analyze a cross-section of national plans,
considering their objectives and policy components.
We then propose a taxonomy examining the degree of
broadband supply- and demand-side emphasis. This
taxonomy establishes a common language that can
guide governments through the development of national
broadband plans; it also can serve as a baseline for
evaluating the factors of success for implemented plans.
BROADBAND ADOPTION AND ECONOMIC IMPACTS
Broadband adoption encompasses the expansion of
broadband availability as well as the use of devices,
applications, content, and services that leverage highspeed IP communications. Government policies can
impact all facets of adoption. Countries that do not
consider the need to make progress on broadband risk
significant loss of competitiveness.
The rationale for increasing broadband adoption,
through both expanding infrastructure and increasing
broadband usage, is based on both short- and longterm impacts. In the short term, the construction of
high-speed networks stimulates local economies by
immediately employing labor and purchasing materials.
Several studies have identified short-term employment
effects stemming from (1) direct labor employed to
build broadband infrastructure and (2) indirect and
induced jobs that are created by suppliers and services
supporting the construction activity. One review of
six studies that estimate various employment impacts
suggests that, on average, 1.56 direct and indirect
jobs result per employment opportunity focused on

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 43

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

Figure 1: Coverage and download speeds, 2011

35
  Advanced economies

30

Average download speed (Mb/s)

  Emerging economies
25
20
15
10

5
0
0

20

40

60

80

100

Households with Internet (%)
Source: ITU World Telecommunications/ICT Indicators Database 2012; Ookla Net Index 2012.

broadband network construction; this figure rises to 2.78
for direct, indirect, and induced jobs created.3
In the long term, business utilization of broadband
can result in network effects and gains in productivity. In
the United States, the employment impacts caused by
network effects are estimated to be 1.17 jobs per direct
and indirect job.4 Recent research by Qiang and Xu at
the World Bank examined cross-country time-series and
firm-level data; they determine that broadband has “longterm effects on growth, and contributes to the growth of
a number of non-telecom industries, especially high-tech
industries.”5
THE ROLE OF GOVERNMENT IN BROADBAND
ADOPTION
Public policies in broadband development vary in the
extent of intervention and the degree to which policy
levers focus on broadband availability (supply) or usage
(demand). Although the fiscal stimulus packages of
many countries, for example, responded to the global
crisis by direct public-sector investment in broadband
infrastructure, public policy also facilitates expansion
by establishing rules and regulations under which the
private sector is encouraged to expand connectivity.
Increasing broadband adoption requires demanddriving policy measures as well. In order to fully utilize
broadband infrastructure, individuals, enterprises (small,
medium, and large), and government entities require the
skills, devices, applications, and content that motivate
the interest and ability of stakeholders to incorporate
IP technology. Both sets of policy actions—supply
expanding and demand driving—are integral, particularly

44 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

in countries where broadband penetration levels are
significantly below the thresholds of critical mass where
increasing returns to investment occur (estimated to be
at 20 percent subscription penetration).6
ANALYSIS OF PLANS
In late 2012, we conducted a review of national
broadband and ICT plans across the world and
categorized each policy. We first identified the 60
largest countries in the world (a group constituting
over 90 percent of global gross domestic product and
95 percent of current Internet users), and reviewed all
national broadband policy environments to determine
whether a current national broadband and ICT plan
exists. Of the 60, we identified 43 countries with plans;
of those 43 we were able to closely review 28 plans
with official English versions. These 28 plans represent
a cross-section of countries across geographic regions
as well as income levels. Appendix A lists each plan, its
economy of origin, and the year of its publication.
Our review also compared the national plans against
a scorecard of broadband policies based on a review of
telecommunications policy literature. This comparison
against the scorecard allows for the categorization and
descriptive analysis of each plan. As far as we know,
this taxonomy is the first attempt to characterize an
international sample of national broadband and ICT
plans.
CONVERGENT OBJECTIVES
Although the plans reviewed range widely in their policy
recommendations, they converge on the overarching

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

objective of increasing broadband and ICTs in order to
advance their respective economies. To a lesser degree,
the specific targets and indicators of the plans vary.
We identified three main categories of goals presented
across the plans: coverage (subscriptions or availability),
speed (primarily download), and economic impacts
(including employment). We group the remaining targets,
predominantly sector-specific, into a fourth category of
“other” goals.
Coverage targets focus on connecting people and
territories to IP networks. Commonly measured as a
percentage of individuals or households, some countries
also include targets for connecting businesses as well
as public institutions, such as schools and hospitals.
The indicators utilized vary from actual subscriptions to
simply geographic coverage of broadband infrastructure
that provides access. Speed targets are closely
associated with coverage, and broadband definitions
vary widely, from nascent levels below 1 megabit per
second (Mb/s) to ultra-fast broadband speed targets at
the 100 Mb/s level.
Economic impact goals identified in the plans
range from specific employment targets as a result
of broadband and ICTs to aggregate value-added
measured by expenditure. The remaining targets range
from sector-specific ones such as increasing electronic
government services to increasing country rankings
in international indexes. Appendix B presents specific
examples from national plans. The economies are
divided into “Advanced” and “Emerging,” demonstrating
that historic income differences do not dictate the
aggressiveness of broadband targets.
MORE ON COVERAGE AND SPEED
Coverage and speed targets comprise the main
goals listed across the plans reviewed here, reflecting
an international emphasis on these objectives. For
example, Target 3 of the UN Broadband Commission
is to connect at least 40 percent of households in
developing countries to broadband Internet by 2015.7
The European Commission’s Digital Agenda for Europe
2010–2020 emphasizes broadband coverage for all by
2013, including fast broadband coverage of at least 30
Mb/s for all by 2020, with 50 percent of households
subscribed to ultra-fast broadband of 100 Mb/s.8
Comparing the current levels of coverage and speed
of the 60 largest countries illustrates the relationship
between household adoption of the Internet and average
download speeds (Figure 1). Coverage and speed
are highly correlated (with a correlation coefficient
of 0.7), suggesting a concurrent policy approach to
coverage and speed targets. Categorizing economies
into advanced and emerging groups further illustrates
that, although the majority of households in advanced
economies are connected to the Internet (seen in the
x-axis of the figure), only a few emerging economies

Box 1: Networks fit for purpose: Beyond
download speed targets
Although the high download speed targets of many
national broadband and ICT plans are laudable, ensuring
full utilization of broadband technology requires an equal
emphasis on additional components of broadband quality:
upload speed and latency.
High download speeds are necessary for the
consumption of large data files or the streaming of
content, but synchronous communication, such as video
conferencing, requires a parallel high speed of upload.
Additionally, latency (measured as the time required for
round-trip data transmission, calculated in milliseconds) is
also critical for two-way communication over the Internet in
a wide range of applications.
As more applications and services are hosted “in the
cloud,” upload speed and latency become more essential.
Cisco’s Visual Networking Index 2012–2017 estimates that
nearly three-quarters of mobile IP traffic is cloud-based.
That share is forecasted to rise to 84 percent of all mobile
data traffic by 2017.
Additionally, Cisco’s Global Cloud Index estimates
that, for business and consumer applications delivered by
the cloud, an advanced level of cloud application readiness
requires latency below 100 milliseconds. This latency
threshold is required in order to support high-definition
(HD) video conferencing, advanced multiplayer gaming,
and the streaming of super HD video. Intermediate cloud
application readiness (to support IP telephony, basic
gaming, basic video chat, basic video conferencing,
advanced social networking, and HD video streaming)
requires latency of between 100 and 159 milliseconds.
Basic readiness is above 160 milliseconds.

Sources: Cisco Mobile VNI Forecast 2012–2017; Cisco Cloud
Readiness Index 2012.

have a majority of households connected.9 And although
some advanced and emerging economies have similar
coverage and speed levels, a few emerging countries
appear as outliers, with very high average speed
(Romania, for example) or very high household coverage
(Qatar).
Coverage and download speed, although important,
are not the only factors that should be taken into
account. Fully leveraging the benefits of broadband
requires adequate upload speed as well as latency
(Box 1).
POLICY OPTIONS: SUPPLY- AND DEMAND-SIDE
DRIVERS
Other research has characterized broadband markets
as an ecosystem with components covering hard
infrastructure as distinct from policy environments,
or applications and content access as distinct from
connectivity and user skills. We have applied a

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 45

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

Figure 2: Categories of supply- and demand-side policies

SUPPLY-SIDE POLICIES

DEMAND-SIDE POLICIES

	 I.	 Competition and investment

	 I.	 Affordability of devices and
access

	II.	 Spectrum allocation and
assignment

	II.	 Government leadership in
broadband use and online
activity

	III.	 Reducing infrastructure
deployment costs

	III.	 ICT skills development

	IV.	 Core network expansion:
Market led, government led,
or a mix

	IV.	 Online and local content,
applications,
new technologies, and
services

	V.	 Inclusive broadband
availability (e.g., with
universal service obligations
or universal service funds)

	V.	 Consumer protection and
empowerment

Source: Authors.

supply-side versus demand-side approach, because
this distinction more clearly demonstrates the fact that
public policy can impact most facets of broadband
adoption (Figure 2). The supply- versus demand-side
categorization also points to the separate and distinct
outcomes of expanding availability of broadband or
stimulating utilization.
On the supply side, we have categorized the range
of policy options into five groups, with specific examples
of recommendations that are included in national
broadband and ICT plans.
1.	 Competition and investment policies. These
policies encourage private-sector entry and
investment in broadband networks, as well as
technology- or service-neutral rules that give
operators the greatest degree of flexibility. In
addition, they can include policies that promote
effective competition in international gateways
and/or wholesale nondiscriminatory access.
For example, the United States’ Connecting
America: The National Broadband Plan (2010)
included a wide range of recommendations
to provide greater clarity on its broadband
market and encourage investment; the
recommendations in that plan ranged from
reviewing wholesale competition regulations and
clarifying interconnection rights and obligations to
recommending balance in policies around copper
retirement.10

46 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

2.	 Spectrum allocation and assignment. These
policies allocate and assign spectrum to allow
both existing and new companies to provide
bandwidth-intensive broadband services. These
policies also encourage the implementation of
rules to allow operators to engage in spectrum
trading. The Slovak Republic’s National Strategy
for Broadband Access in the Slovak Republic
(2009) outlines a vision of effective utilization of
spectrum frequency.11 The plan recommends the
transition toward the digital dividend, repurposing
excess spectrum obtained by switching analogue
to digital broadcasting.
3.	 Reducing infrastructure deployment costs. These
include policies that allow for access to rights-ofway, infrastructure sharing, and/or open access
on critical infrastructure. Public rights-of-way can
include existing infrastructure owned by public
entities, such as railways or electricity grids.
Open-access policies can include governmentsponsored or dominant-operator networks
to enable greater competition in downstream
markets. Germany’s Federal Government
Broadband Strategy (2009) includes measures to
optimize the shared use of existing infrastructure
and facilities.12 Among these measures are
developing an infrastructure atlas and database
on construction sites, and promoting collaboration
on ducts and other infrastructure.
4.	 Core network expansion: Market led, government
led, or a mix. This category includes explicit and
implicit strategies for core network infrastructure
expansion that are: (1) market driven with few
government directives, (2) a government-led (or
majority-owned) network company, or (3) some
combination of public and private cooperation in
core infrastructure buildout that can encompass
an official public-private partnership or a division
in roles between public and private entities to
provide the core network. Australia’s National
Broadband Network (2009) is an example of a
national plan where a government-owned entity
will provide national core network infrastructure.13
5.	 Inclusive broadband availability. These policies
focus directly on closing broadband availability
gaps for remote or marginalized populations.
Options here include actions to build out
infrastructure to underserved and/or rural areas,
possibly utilizing universal service obligations and/
or universal service funds. The United Kingdom’s
Britain’s Superfast Broadband Future (2010)
report emphasizes the Broadband Delivery UK

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

with a focus on translation into local language(s).
This category also includes actions and legislation
that can foster new applications, technologies,
and services by supporting e-transactions
or online payments and enforcing intellectual
property protection to foster innovation in online
services and applications. Qatar’s National
ICT Plan: 2015 (2011) recommends policies to
accelerate small- and medium-sized enterprise
use and involvement in ICT services.18 The
plan also emphasizes local content creation,
technology to recognize Arabic characters, and
a focus on an e-health system that employs
broadband and ICTs to enhance healthcare
services.

model for delivering connectivity in rural and
hard-to-reach areas to stimulate private-sector
investment with available funding.14
Demand-side policies focus on greater broadband
adoption through intensifying the motivators of usage.
From increasing affordability to fostering trust in the
online environment, these policies are categorized into
the following dimensions:
1.	 Affordability of devices and access. These
policies include, but are not limited to, targeted
subsidies for device purchases by low-income
households, decreasing or removing luxury taxes
on ICT devices, and low-cost leasing programs.
Morocco’s Digital Morocco 2013 (2008) strategy
highlights programs to subsidize computers and
Internet connections for teachers and students.15
The strategy also emphasizes public-private
partnerships to offer similar low-cost deviceand-access packages to different sections of the
population.
2.	 Government leadership to utilize and promote
broadband. These include policies that encourage
the deployment of e-government services and
portals, as well as the government operating
as an “anchor-tenant” for broadband service.
Japan’s New Strategy in Information and
Communications Technology (IT) (2010) highlights
recommendations for improving and increasing
the availability of e-government services and for
driving efficiency in government ICT systems.16
These services include an emphasis on cloud
technology and promoting citizen participation in
political activities by electronic voting.
3.	 ICT skills development. This category includes
programs to increase ICT-related skills and
familiarity across the population, such as digital
literacy programs. ICT skills development
policies also target actions intended to
increase community usage and access through
“telecenters” and public-access sites as well as
increasing technical skills, such as computer
science and network engineering. Nigeria’s
National Information Communication Technology
(ICT) Policy DRAFT (2012) emphasizes the
introduction of ICT training at all school levels
through the development of specialized training
institutes.17 It also provides for computer and
Internet access in public facilities such as post
offices, schools, and libraries.
4.	 Facilitating online and local content, applications,
new technologies, and services. These policies
include programs such as targeted campaigns to
increase and localize online content, sometimes

5.	 Consumer protection and empowerment.
These policies protect consumers and enhance
transparency between businesses and
customers. They include clear regulations around
personal data, privacy, and truth in advertising
of broadband offerings. These actions help to
ensure consumer trust in conducting private and
business activity online. The Philippine Digital
Strategy: Transformation 2.0 (2011) calls for online
consumer protection, consumer awareness,
and the creation of data security as well as data
privacy regulations.19

TAXONOMY FOR BROADBAND AND ICT PLANS
We classified plans based on their relative emphasis
on supply- and/or demand-side policies within the
categories identified above. Plans moved from limited in
their focus to extensive along both supply- and demandside dimensions as they increase in the number of policy
categories included in a plan. We set this threshold when
plans have policy recommendations in at least four of the
five categories listed under each supply and demand.
Comparing the extent of both supply- and demandside level policy coverage, we then sorted national plans
into four relevant categories. The most comprehensive
plans that include extensive supply- and demand-side
coverage are defined as broad-based, while plans that
are more heavily focused on one dimension are either
supply-driven or demand-driven. The plans that have
been published with fewer specific recommendations
across the range of policy options are classified as
emergent. Figure 3 illustrates the typology and the
number of plans in each category; Appendix A lists each
plan.
Broad-based plans are the most comprehensive
and incorporate a wide range of policy recommendations
on both supply- and demand-side dimensions. Of the 28
plans reviewed, 9 plans are categorized here as broadbased and focus on increasing the availability of highspeed networks as well as the activity on those networks

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 47

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

Figure 3: Taxonomy for national broadband/ICT plans

DEMAND-SIDE
Limited

Extensive

Limited

Emergent (2)

Demand driven (8)

Extensive

Supply driven (9)

Broad based (9)

SUPPLY-SIDE

Source: Authors’ calculations.
Note: The number in parentheses is the number of plans in each category out of the 28 plans reviewed.

to drive utilization. Examples of broad-based plans
include the United States’s Connecting America: The
National Broadband Plan (2010), Qatar’s National ICT
Plan 2015 (2011), and Egypt’s eMisr National Broadband
Plan (2011).20
Supply-driven plans focus on actions to build
out infrastructure and increase broadband availability
through competition and investment policies; they also
include direct action to reach underserved populations.
The nine supply-driven plans identified here, however,
vary in the extent of public investment directed to core
infrastructure expansion. Australia’s National Broadband
Network (2009), for example, initiates the construction
of a government-owned public infrastructure network,
while Germany’s Federal Government’s Broadband
Strategy (2009) and the United Kingdom’s Superfast
Broadband Future (2010) focus on market players to
drive core investment and provide public investment at
the municipal level for underserved regions to access
high-speed infrastructure.21
In some cases, such as in Australia, a supply-driven
plan may be complemented with a demand-driven
one. In 2011, Australia released its National Digital
Economy Strategy,22 emphasizing policies in most of the
demand-side categories noted above; the two Australia
plans together formulate a comprehensive approach to
increasing availability and utilization of broadband.
Other examples of the eight demand-driven plans
identified here include Morocco’s Digital Morocco 2013
(2008) and Poland’s Strategy for the Development of
the Information Society in Poland until 2013 (2008).23
These plans focus more on intensifying the utilization of
broadband and ICTs to drive economic growth.
Few plans are categorized as emergent, as the
effort to formulate a national strategy tends to result in a
comprehensive set of policy recommendations. However,
the classification reinforces the importance of a broad
review of available policy levers in the pursuance of goals
of increasing broadband availability and utilization.

48 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

A distributional review of the plans highlights that,
while the demand-driven plans range widely in the years
of their publication (they start in 2005 and go to 2012,
with no more than two plans published in the same
year), the supply-driven plans are heavily concentrated
in 2009. This trend reflects the broadband infrastructure
investment emphasis as a series of countercyclical
responses to the global economic crisis. Additionally,
all nine of the broad-based plans identified here were
published from 2010 to 2012, signaling an evolution in
the way national governments are now shifting policy
emphasis to encompass both supply and demand.
CONCLUSION: DIVERGENT PLANS, COMMON
UNDERSTANDING
Countries around the world have developed national
plans to accelerate broadband adoption. These plans
vary by both goals and policy recommendations. Our
taxonomy of broad-based, supply-driven, demanddriven, and emergent provides a clear method for
categorizing national broadband and ICT plans on the
breadth of their policy options. This classification is a
starting point in the review and comparison of national
plans. Further, it can aid policymakers in countries that
have strategic plans underway as they work to increase
broadband adoption.
Further research on the efficacy of existing
broadband plans and evidence that points to the
identification of an optimal policy formulation is crucial.
Additional issues that need to be addressed include
determining whether there are differential impacts of
supply- versus demand-side policies; if such differences
do exist, whether they depend on current levels of
broadband adoption (e.g., are supply-side policies more
relevant in countries with extensive Internet adoption
or vice versa), and determining which variables—such
as the implementing agency and the extent of the
consultative process—impact how successful a plan is in
achieving the target goals.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

What is clear now is that the relationship between
broadband and national objectives, such as growth
and employment, has led to an increasing number
of broadband and ICT plans. As variations in plans
exist, this taxonomy establishes a common descriptive
language for broadband plans and thus sets the baseline
for continued research that will enable us to achieve
further detail in understanding how best to unleash the
potential benefits of broadband for all governments,
businesses, and citizens.

Australian Government, Department of Broadband. 2009. What Is the
NBN? Available at http://www.nbn.gov.au/about-the-nbn/what-isthe-nbn/.
———. 2011. National Digital Economy Strategy. Available at http://www.
nbn.gov.au/the-vision/digitaleconomystrategy/.
BIS (Department for Business, Information and Skills). 2010. Britain’s
Superfast Broadband Future. London: BIS. Available at http://
www.culture.gov.uk/publications/7829.aspx.
Bresnahan, T. F. and M. Trajtenberg. 1995. “General Purpose
Technologies ‘Engines of Growth’?” Journal of Econometrics 65
(1): 83–108.

NOTES

Cisco. 2012. Cisco Global Cloud Index: Forecast and Methodology,
2011–2016. Available at http://www.cisco.com/en/US/solutions/
collateral/ns341/ns525/ns537/ns705/ns1175/Cloud_Index_White_
Paper.html.

	 1	 See Bresnahan and Trajtenberg 1995, who define generalpurpose technologies, and Qiang and Xu 2012, who measure the
impact of ICTs across sectors in various economies and determine
that broadband is the ICT that has the characteristics of generalpurpose technology.

———. 2013. Visual Networking Index: Forecast and Methodology,
2012–2017. Available at http://www.cisco.com/en/US/solutions/
collateral/ns341/ns525/ns537/ns705/ns827/white_paper_c11520862.pdf.

	 2	 UN Broadband Commission 2012 and Qiang 2010.
	 3	 Kelly and Rossotto 2012. Note that country-specific effects may
be present. Induced employment typically refers to employment
that results from added consumption of goods and services by
direct and indirect employment.
	 4	 Atkinson, Castro, and Ezell 2009 review the network effect
multiplier on employment in the United States.
	 5	 Qiang and Xu 2012.
	 6	 Koutroumpis 2009 has identified that increasing returns to
broadband investment occurs when a critical mass of penetration
is reached at levels above 20 percent (20 subscriptions per 100
people).
	 7	 UN Broadband Commission 2011.

EC (European Commission). Digital Agenda for Europe 2010–2020.
Available at http://ec.europa.eu/information_society/digitalagenda/scoreboard/index_en.htm.
eMisr (Egypt). 2011. eMisr National Broadband Plan. Available at http://
www.tra.gov.eg/emisr/.
FCC (Federal Communications Commission). 2010. Connecting
America: The National Broadband Plan. Available at http://www.
broadband.gov/download-plan/.
Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology (Germany). 2009.
The Federal Government’s Broadband Strategy. Berlin: Federal
Ministry of Economics and Technology. Available at http://www.
bmwi.de/English/Redaktion/Pdf/broadband-strategy,property=pdf,
bereich=bmwi,sprache=en,rwb=true.pdf.

	 8	EC Digital Agenda for Europe 2010–2020.

ICT Qatar. 2011. Qatar’s National ICT Plan 2015. Available at http://www.
ictqatar.qa/en/documents/document/qatar-s-national-ict-plan2015-advancing-digital-agenda.

	 9	 Advanced versus Emerging economy classification as defined
by the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook
database, April 2012.

IMF (International Monetary Fund). 2012. World Economic Outlook
database. Available at http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/
weo/2012/01/index.htm.

	 10	 FCC 2010.

ITU (International Telecommunication Union). 2012. World
Telecommunications/ICT Indicators Database 2012. 16th Edition.
Available at http://www.itu.int/ITU-D/ict/publications/world/world.
html.

	 11	 The Slovak Republic 2009.
	 12	 Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology 2009.
	 13	 Australian Government, Department of Broadband 2009.
	 14	 BIS 2010.

Kelly, T. and C. M. Rossotto. 2012. Broadband Strategies Handbook.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
Koutroumpis, P. 2009. “The Economic Impact of Broadband on Growth:
A Simultaneous Approach.” Telecommunications Policy 33 (9):
471–85. Available at http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0308596109000767.

	 15	 Kingdom of Morocco 2008.
	 16	 Prime Minister of Japan and His Cabinet 2010.
	 17	 Nigeria 2012.

Kingdom of Morocco, Ministry of Industry, Trade, and New
Technologies. 2008. Digital Morocco 2013: The National Strategy
for Information Society and Digital Economy. Available at http://
www.egov.ma/SiteCollectionDocuments/Morocco%20Digital.pdf.

	 18	 ICT Qatar 2011.
	 19	 Philippine Government 2011.
	 20	 FCC 2010; ICT Qatar 2011; eMisr (Egypt) 2011.
	 21	 Australian Government 2009; Federal Ministry of Economics and
Technology 2009; BIS 2010.

Nigeria. 2012. National Information Communication Technology
(ICT) Policy DRAFT. Available at http://www.commtech.gov.ng/
downloads/National_ICT_Policy_DRAFT_090112.pdf.
Ookla. 2012. Net Index. Available at http://www.netindex.com/sourcedata/.

	 22	 Australian Government 2011.
	 23	 Kingdom of Morocco 2008; The Republic of Poland 2008.

REFERENCES
Atkinson, R. D., D. Castro, and S. J. Ezell. 2009. The Digital Road to
Recovery: A Stimulus Plan to Create Jobs, Boost Productivity
and Revitalize America. Available at http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/
ssrn.1334688.

Philippine Government. 2011. Philippine Digital Strategy:
Transformation 2.0. Available at http://ilearn.gov.ph/
PhilippineDigitalStrategy2011-2016.pdf.
Prime Minister of Japan and His Cabinet. 2010. A New Strategy in
Information and Communications Technology (IT). May 11.
Available at http://www.kantei.go.jp/foreign/policy/it/100511_full.
pdf.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 49

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

The Republic of Poland, Ministry of Interior and Administration. 2008.
The Strategy for the Development of the Information Society in
Poland until 2013. Available at http://bip.msw.gov.pl/download.
php?s=4&id=6188.
Qiang, C. Z-W. 2010. “Broadband Infrastructure Investment in Stimulus
Packages: Relevance for Developing Countries.” info 12 (2):.41–56.
Qiang, C. Z.-W. and L. C. Xu. 2012. “Telecommunications and Economic
Performance: Macro and Micro Evidence.” Working Paper.
Washington, DC: World Bank.
The Slovak Republic. 2009. National Strategy for Broadband Access in
the Slovak Republic. Available at http://www.telecom.gov.sk/index/
open_file.php?file=telekom/Strategia/Broadband/NSSP_2011_
en.pdf&lang=en.
United Nations Broadband Commission. 2011. “Broadband Targets
for 2015.” Available at http://www.broadbandcommission.org/
Documents/Broadband_Targets.pdf.
———. 2012. The State of Broadband 2012: Achieving Digital Inclusion for
All Geneva: ITU. Available at http://www.broadbandcommission.
org/Documents/bb-annualreport2012.pdf.

50 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

Appendix A:
Broadband and ICT plans reviewed

The table below illustrates the different categories of policies present in each broadband/ICT plan reviewed. The roman
numerals refer to the policy categories shown in Figure 2.
Supply-side policies
Category

National broadband and ICT plan name

Broad-

eMisr National Broadband Plan

based plan

National Telecom Policy 2012
National Information Communication Technology

Economy

Year

I

II

III

IV

V

I

II

III

IV

V

Egypt

2011

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

 

India

2012

Nigeria

2012

Philippines

2011

(ICT) Policy DRAFT
The Philippine Digital Strategy: Transformation
2.0: Digitally Empowered Nation
2015: Qatar’s National ICT Plan
National Development Plan 2030: Our Future –

Qatar

2011

South Africa

2012

Make It Work
ICT for Everyone: A Digital Agenda for Sweden

Sweden

2011

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

National Broadband Policy

Thailand

2010

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

n

n

n

United States

2010

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

n

The National Broadband Network

Australia

2009

n

 

n

n

n

 

 

 

 

 

Broadband Canada: Connecting Rural Canadians

Canada

2009

n

n

 

n

n

 

 

 

 

 

Czech Republic

2005

n

 

n

n

n

 

n

n

n

 

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

 

 

 

n

n

n

n

n

 

 

n

 

 

n

 

n

n

n

 

n

n

n

 

n

 

n

n

n

 

 

n

 

 

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

 

 

 
n

Connecting America: The National Broadband
Plan
Supplydriven plan

The National Broadband Access Policy Broadband Strategy of the Czech Republic
The Federal Government’s Broadband Strategy
Next Generation Broadband: Gateway to a

Germany

2009

Ireland

2009

Malaysia

2004

New Zealand

2009

Slovak Republic

2009

United Kingdom

2010

n

n

n

n

n

 

 

n

 

Australia

2011

 

 

 

 

 

n

n

n

n

 

Hong Kong SAR

2007

n

n

 

n

 

n

n

n

n

n

Hungary

2005

n

n

 

 

n

n

n

n

n

n

Japan

2010

 

n

 

 

 

 

n

n

n

n

Morocco

2008

n

 

 

 

 

n

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

 

 

n

n

n

n

n

 

 

 

 

 

n

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

n

 

n

n

n

n

n

n

 

n

 

n

 

n

n

 

n

 

 

 

 

n

 

n

n

n

 

Knowledge Ireland
The National Broadband Plan: Enabling High
Speed Broadband Under MyICMS 886 *
Ultra-Fast Broadband Initiative + Rural Broadband
Initiative
National Strategy for Broadband Access in the
Slovak Republic
Britain’s Superfast Broadband Future
Demand-driven
plan

#AU20: The National Digital Economy Strategy
2008 Digital 21 Strategy
National Broadband Strategy
A New Strategy in Information and
Communications Technology (IT)
Digital Morocco 2013: The National Strategy for
Information Society and Digital Economy
Draft National IT Policy (Revised) 2012

Pakistan

2012

The Strategy for the Development of the

Poland

2008

Singapore

2006

Canada

2010

Chile

2007

Information Society in Poland until 2013
Realising the iN2015 Vision – Singapore: An
Intelligent Nation, A Global City
Emergent
plan

Demand-side policies

Plan for a Digital Canada
Estrategia Digital: Digital Development Strategy
2007–2012

* In 2010, Malaysia launched five initiatives as part of a National Broadband Initiative; however, we were unable to obtain an official comprehensive document to review here.
Note: The plans we reviewed consist of the most current plans with official English language versions. In a few cases, we included draft plan documents that were released to the public for review.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 51

1.3: Convergent Objectives, Divergent Strategies

Appendix B:
Examples of goals found in national broadband/ICT plans,
by economy groups

v
Goal
Economy group

Broadband coverage

Economic impacts (including

Other goals

employment)

(including sector-specific targets)

Broadband speeds

Germany

New Zealand

Singapore

United States

Advanced

By 2014, 75 percent of households

By 2020, download speeds of at

By 2015, achieve a twofold increase

By 2020, create a nationwide,

economies

to have Internet access of at least

least 100 Mb/s and upload speeds

in the value-added of the ICT

wireless, interoperable broadband

50 Mb/s

of at least 50 Mb/s (connected to 75

industry to S$26 billion, a threefold

public safety network and a clean

percent of New Zealanders)

increase in ICT export revenue to

energy economy where every

S$60 billion and create 80,000

citizen can use broadband to track

additional jobs

and manage real-time energy
consumption

Sweden

United Kingdom

Japan

Australia

By 2020, 90 percent of all

By 2015, all homes will have access

By 2020, create new related

By 2015, 495,000 telehealth

households and businesses have

to a minimum level of service of

markets worth 70 trillion yen

consultations will have been

access to broadband at a minimum

2 Mb/s

delivered, providing remote access

speed of 100 Mb/s

to specialists for patients in rural,
remote, and outer metropolitan
areas; by 2020, 25 percent of all
specialists will be participating in
delivering telehealth consultations to
remote patients

Thailand

Egypt

Pakistan

Philippines

Emerging

By 2015, develop the broadband

By 2021, 90 percent of households

In 10 years, create 5 million new

By 2016, increase the country’s

economies

network to provide access for at

will have access to 25 Mb/s

jobs across Pakistan linked to the

score on the UN e-Participation

least 80 percent of the population,

broadband availability and 90

ICT- and IT-enabled services (ITES)

Index from 24.49 in 2008 to

and access for at least 95 percent

percent of the population will have

sectors; quadruple the percentage of

above 40; at least 50 percent of

by 2020

4G/LTE coverage

women participating in the ICT and

government websites will include

ITES workforce from the current 13

interactive services (up from 31

percent; double the GDP per capita

percent in 2010); at least 20 percent

by improving agricultural yields

of government websites will include

using ICTs and ITES; leverage the

transactional services (up from 4.61

cellular phone network for education

percent in 2010)

and access to information; localize
content and broad-based growth of
the ICT and ITES sectors

South Africa

Slovak Republic

Morocco

India

By 2020, achieve target of 100

By 2020, fast broadband (greater

By 2013, establish 58,000 jobs in

Enable citizens to participate in and

percent broadband penetration

than 30 Mb/s) coverage for all;

IT (up from 32,000 in 2008); direct

contribute to e-governance in key

greater than 100 Mb/s for 50

additional GDP: 7 billion Morocco

sectors such as health, education,

percent of households’ broadband

Dirham (MAD); indirect additional

skill development, employment,

subscriptions

GDP: 20 billion MAD

governance, banking, and so on
to ensure equitable and inclusive
growth

52 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.4

The Importance of National
Policy Leadership
PHILLIPPA BIGGS
ANNA POLOMSKA

on behalf of the Broadband Commission Secretariat
ITU/UNESCO Broadband Commission for Digital
Development

With one-third of the world’s population now online,
the impact of—and need for—coordination between
government policies and commercial strategies in the
rollout and use of information and communication
technologies (ICTs) have never been greater. As crosscutting technologies, ICTs are creeping into our lives
today in many different forms—from how we exchange
news and views to how we share photos, meet up, or
locate our friends, or even ourselves.
The use—and sometimes the abuse—of ICTs are
driven by extremely fast technological evolution within
a changing policy environment (Figure 1). A growing
number of countries now recognize the importance of
policy leadership and a clear cross-sectoral vision that
can maximize the economic and social returns of ICTs.
This can be seen in the strong growth in the number
of national broadband plans (Figure 2). This chapter
provides a brief overview of the growth of such national
broadband plans and describes characteristics of a
good plan, with reference to several examples: the US,
UK, and Polish national broadband plans.
THE CHANGING POLICY CONTEXT
Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, economic arguments
of natural monopolies and economies of scale
underpinned the state’s function as investor, operator,
and (self-)regulator of telecommunication networks and
services in many countries. Beginning in the 1980s,
market liberalization saw private and competitive
operators dramatically accelerate network rollout, reduce
prices, and boost the efficiency of telecommunication
service provision; these changes continued throughout
the 1990s.1 Regulators, initially established as arbiters
overseeing the transition to a competitive market,
subsequently carved out a role for themselves in
overseeing principles of universal service provision,
competition, and consumer protection.
The late 1990s and early 2000s witnessed the
development of an equilibrium of sorts in Europe
and North America, with private operator(s) in charge
of investment, operations, and service provision;
government in charge of high-level policy; and
the regulator in charge of more specific concerns.
Consensus opinion cast the die in favor of competitive,
market-based mechanisms for the provision of
telecommunication services, with governments cast
in the role of “gap-fillers,” facilitators, and enablers,
especially in instances of market failure.

This chapter reflects the views of its authors only and in no way reflects
the views of ITU or its membership. The chapter draws on data and
analysis taken from the ITU Trends in Telecommunication Reform Report
2012, and Chapter 1 of that report, “Overview of Trends in the ICT
Market and in ICT Regulation,” authored by Nancy Sundberg and Youlia
Lozanova.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 53

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Figure 1: The institutional context and enabling environment for policy

Legislation

Regulation

Legislators
Judiciary
Law enforcement agencies
Police

ICT regulator
Data protection agency
Consumer protection agency
Competition agency

END
USERS

Ministry of internal affairs
Other ministries

CIRTs/CERTs
International &
regional organizations

Operations
Policy
Network & service providers
Vendors
Research institutes
Standardization organizations

Ministry of
ICT/communications

Source: Secretariat of the Broadband Commission for Digital Development.
Note: CIRT = computer incident response team; CERT = computer emergency response team.

More recently, however, the pendulum of opinion
may be shifting back to accord greater importance to
the role of government in the rollout and deployment of
telecommunication services. There are several forces
driving this trend:
1.	 A growing body of evidence indicates sizeable
positive externalities and strong returns to
broadband networks. Statistical cross-country
regression work generally puts broadband’s
contribution to growth in GDP at between 0.25
percent and 1.4 percent, but this contribution is
highly variable and depends on data availability,
model specifications, and the individual country’s
economic structure.2 Such externalities underline
how broadband networks are a part of national
infrastructure that is vital for a nation’s economic
competitiveness,3 and may help create a greater
exchange of information and knowledge as an
important national or international public good.4
2.	 As well as sizeable returns, the scale of network
investments needed are today so massive, and
take place over such long time horizons, that

54 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

many operators are struggling to finance network
upgrades in the move to Internet Protocol (IP)–
based networks,5 and are seeking alternative
sources of funding, including from the state.6
For example, it is estimated that €50 billion are
needed for energy and broadband network
upgrades in Europe alone.7 Meanwhile, New
Zealand’s Ultra-Fast Broadband (UFB) network
buildout is expected to result in a total savings of
$NZ 32.8 billion over 20 years across all sectors
of the economy (including healthcare, education,
the business sector, and the dairy sector)8—
savings that cannot be reflected or taken into
account by the investment plans of any single
operator.
3.	 Handset functionality, the speed of convergence,
and the use of mobiles to deliver education,
healthcare, and m-money (as well as Facebook
updates or the organization of flashmobs and
riots) means that mobile operators, vendors, and
social networking services may be asked to play
teacher, doctor, banker, and sometimes even
policeman under certain circumstances.9

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Figure 2: Growth in national broadband policies, 2005–12

120

100

No. of countries

80

60

40
20

0
2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

Source: ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Regulatory Database.

As the technical capabilities of ICTs grow,
operators—and policymakers—are taking on new roles
as they grapple with more complex issues, including
privacy and security. Alongside codified legislation, law
enforcement, and specific regulation, policy visions for
a connected nation can play a vital coordinating role
and may optimize outcomes across the institutional
context to the benefit of end users, who find themselves
impacted by diverse policy considerations (Figure 1).
THE NEED FOR NATIONAL POLICY LEADERSHIP
Policy leadership can help highlight the role of
broadband in national development, provide an
enabling environment for private investment, coordinate
dialogue, and encourage work across different sectors
and ministries. Over the last few years, policy decision
makers, communication ministries, and national
regulators have made broadband a policy priority. The
number of broadband plans and policies, as tracked by
ITU and the Broadband Commission, has more than
doubled since December 2009 (Figure 2). The explosion
in national broadband plans in 2010–11 occurred partly
in response to the financial crisis and the prioritization of
national infrastructure investments in economic stimulus
plans.10
By September 2012, some 119—or 62 percent—of
all economies had developed a national plan, strategy,
or policy to promote broadband; 12 countries—or 6
percent—are planning to introduce such measures in
the near future (see Figure 3 and Appendix A). Europe

has a marked preference for national broadband plans,
with some 88 percent of European countries having a
plan and/or universal access and service (UAS) definition
(Figure 4). Africa was well endowed with national plans
from fairly early on, with ICTs included in International
Monetary Fund/World Bank Poverty Reduction Strategy
Papers. Plans have changed focus over time, with earlier
plans produced between 2002 and 2006 generally
tending to focus on ICTs or the Information Society.
Plans between 2006 and the present have tended to
focus explicitly on broadband; more recently, plans focus
on broader, cross-sectoral considerations of the digital
agenda.
The region with the fewest national broadband plans
is the Arab States, which have generally revised universal
service objectives to include broadband. However, 62
countries—or 32 percent of all countries—still do not
have any broadband plan, strategy, or policy in place
(Figure 3). Further, for those countries with plans,
achieving progress in implementation may be more
challenging or slower than envisaged. The number of
national regulatory bodies also continues to grow. By
September 2012, 159 countries had national regulatory
bodies, up from 152 in 2008 and 124 in 2002.11
Best-practice cases for broadband plans are
by now well established. In his chapter for Trends in
Telecommunication Reform 2012,12 Horton suggests that:
•	 Plans should be cross-sectoral across a range
of different sectors (although they should also

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 55

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Figure 3: Countries with a national policy, strategy, or plan to promote broadband, mid 2012

n Have a plan (61.7 percent, or 119 economies)
n Planning to adopt (6.2 percent, or 12 economies)
n No plan (32.1 percent, or 62 economies)

Source: ITU/UNESCO Broadband Commission for Digital Development.

Figure 4: Policy instruments used to promote universal service, 2012

40
n  UAS definition (includes broadband)
n  Both a plan and a UAS definition
n  National broadband plan

Total countries surveyed (%)

35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
Africa

Americas

Arab States

Asia-Pacific

Source: ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Regulatory Database.
Note: UAS = Universal access and service.

56 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CIS

Europe

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

assign a coordinating agency to be responsible for
implementing the plan overall, in conjunction with
other involved bodies).13
•	 Plans should make the case for broadband,
specific to the needs and economic structure
of that country, based on market analysis and
benchmarking (Box 2).
•	 Plans should be developed in consultation with,
and based on consensus with, a broad range of
stakeholders.
In addition, comprehensive broadband plans can
typically be characterized in the following ways:
•	 Many plans emphasize an important role for publicprivate partnership.
•	 Plans should consider both demand- and supplyside considerations. This may mean supporting the
development of human skills, literacy, and demand
among, for example, schools and small- and
medium-sized enterprises, as well as taking into
account (in many developing countries) the role of
government in driving demand.
•	 Plans should look forward over a timescale of 5
to 10 years, as it may often be difficult to predict
technological evolution over longer time horizons.
•	 Plans should be broadly technology-neutral. Plans
can still include technology-specific measures (for
example, they can consider spectrum issues in
order to facilitate the rollout of mobile broadband).
However, there should be no major implications in
terms of favoring specific technologies over others.
•	 Plans should contain detailed, measurable goals
and strategies to allow for the evaluation of
progress. They may often also contain consideration
of special interest groups such as schools,
hospitals, universities, diverse languages, and
access by minorities or people with specific needs.
In industrialized countries with high broadband
penetrations, plans still play an important role as a clear
statement of national policy priorities, such as targets
for coverage or for a minimum speed (for example, the
United Kingdom’s digital agenda defines a national
minimum speed of 2 Mb/s; see Box 3). The example
of the National Broadband Plan of the United States
illustrates many of the above aspects (Box 1).
National broadband plans should be based on a
thorough market analysis and benchmarking in order
to best understand current market trends and optimize

Box 1: The US National Broadband Plan
In 2009, the US Congress charged the Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) with creating a
National Broadband Plan to ensure that every American
has “access to broadband capability.” Creating the plan
would entail exploring broadband deployment, adoption,
and affordability, as well as the use of broadband to
advance US national priorities, including civic participation;
public safety; entrepreneurial activity; and the delivery of
healthcare, energy, and education, among other priorities.
The FCC conducted an extensive public consultation,
with over 41,000 pages of comments reviewed and over
30 public meetings held throughout the country. On
March 16, 2010, the FCC delivered the Broadband Plan
to Congress to help Americans harness its potential.1
Since then, the FCC has emphasized the vital nature of
broadband for US economic opportunity, job creation,
innovation, and national competitiveness. Since the
release of the Broadband Plan, the FCC has launched a
number of programs that work toward its implementation.
Among these programs are the Connect America Fund,
which addresses universal service; a Mobility Fund
for funding mobile coverage in unserved areas; the
reformed Lifeline program for low-income Americans; and
Connect2Compete to connect low-income students.
To promote regulatory certainty, the FCC has set out
clear rules to protect the Internet’s openness and promote
innovation, investment, and competition, and has taken
steps to free up additional spectrum (for both licensed and
unlicensed broadband, including the use of white space).
The FCC is seeking to make 25 more MHz of spectrum
available and will launch the world’s first incentive auctions
to repurpose broadcast spectrum for mobile broadband.
Since 2010, the FCC has made substantial progress,
through over 60 initiatives, to achieve nearly 90 percent of
items on its action agenda (www.broadband.gov). Today,
the benefits of this dialogue on broadband are apparent—
more Americans than ever are aware of the importance
of broadband to their lives, investment in broadband
infrastructure has risen significantly, and broadband
speeds are increasing.
Note
1	

See http://www.broadband.gov/plan/.

Source: Contributed by the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) of the United States, 2012.

network deployment to areas of maximum demand and
usage. The US National Broadband Plan was notable for
its thorough and detailed benchmarking of the national
situation in broadband. However, even today, one-third
of all American citizens have yet to adopt broadband.14
In Poland, benchmarking and analysis have played
a significant role in helping attract and channel local
investment and foreign direct investment (Box 2).
State funding for high-speed broadband networks
may raise issues of competitive concerns and the
crowding out of private-sector investment. For example,
the European Commission recently conducted a

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 57

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Box 2: The importance of benchmarking: The case of Poland
The Polish government introduced its Strategy for the
Development of the Information Society in Poland until
2013 in 2008 and its long-term strategy, Poland 2030, in
November 2011. Poland is currently preparing its forthcoming
National Broadband Plan (the Plan) for 2013–20, under
final consultation until mid-December 2012, enshrining the
objectives of the European Union (EU)’s Digital Agenda.
This Plan assumes that geographical areas of intervention
will be determined on the basis of a nationwide coverage
and infrastructure inventory exercise, under the Information
System of Broadband Infrastructure (known by its Polish
acronym SIIS) database.
The Plan sets out clear and measurable broadband
targets:1
1.	universal access to the Internet by 2013,
2.	universal access to broadband of the speed of at least
30 Mb/s by 2020, and
3.	at least 50 percent of households with an Internet access
of at least 100 Mb/s by 2020.
In addition, a law adopted in 2010 and designed with
the participation of the Office of Electronic Communications
(UKE)—the act supporting the development of networks and
services—speeds up investment and supports broadband
Internet access in Poland by requiring duct infrastructure to
be located along new and rebuilt roads.
Accurate data on existing infrastructure is vital to
tailoring policy and regulation, and to attracting investment
to areas without broadband. UKE collects data every year
on infrastructure and broadband Internet access for both
fiber and wireless networks. An understanding of coverage
will optimize investments by operators and local government
and allow for the long-term planning of telecommunication
infrastructure development.
The Polish Telecommunication Institute, UKE, and the
Ministry of Administration and Digitization (previously the
Ministry of Infrastructure) have developed the dedicated
SIIS database, implemented and overseen by UKE. Detailed
information is presented in the form of tables, charts, and
maps at the provincial and commune levels. UKE has
collected data on the status of infrastructure and investment
projects in the following areas:
•	 fiber optic network terminations,

•	 the existence of buildings enabling colocation.
The data are used by:
•	 telecommunication operators and Internet service
providers for making business decisions about new
investment projects and market competitiveness,
•	 other investors in planning investments,
•	 local self-government and other local government units,
•	 businesses and consumers for choosing the most
attractive technologies and competitive market offers,
•	 regional operational programs and the Eastern Poland
Operational Program for notifications to the European
Union of plans for the rollout of regional broadband
networks, and
•	 local government authorities for issuing opinions with
regard to public resources expenditure on the rollout of
telecommunication networks.
UKE uses these data as a tool for analysis to determine
the direction for broadband network investment and
development, address gaps in coverage, and support local
government units—for example, through the establishment of
areas entitled to apply for state aid in the further development
of infrastructure. The database also helps big businesses and
small- and medium-sized enterprises determine where—in
which locations and which technologies—to invest.
Poland, during the preparation of guidelines for its
new financial perspective for the years 2014–20, enshrines
the objectives of the EU Digital Agenda in its forthcoming
Plan, currently in draft form. The Plan assumes that the
geographical areas of intervention will be determined on the
basis of nationwide coverage and infrastructure inventory
accumulated in the SIIS system. The system has become
a tool to determine which areas are in need of funding, to
detect and eliminate gaps in the coverage of high-speed
network bandwidth and improve offers aimed at the lessdeveloped areas, and to determine in what locations and in
what technology investment is justified.
Note

•	 telecommunications network nodes,

1	

•	 access nodes,
•	 coverage of cable and wireless networks,
•	 penetration of cable connections or wireless terminals in
buildings,

58 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

•	 occurrence of cable connections or wireless terminals
in residential buildings, and

National Broadband Plan (Draft), available from the Ministry
of Administration and Digitization (formerly the Ministry of
Infrastructure), at http://www.transport.gov.pl/files/0/1794416/
NARODOWYPLANSZEROKOPASMOWY.pdf.

Source: Contributed by the Office of Electronic Communications
(UKE) of Poland, 2012.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Box 3: Britain’s Superfast Broadband Future
Britain’s Superfast Broadband Future sets out the UK
government’s vision for broadband in the United Kingdom
and how this will be achieved, including the benchmarking
of current market deployment in the United Kingdom and
the monitoring of progress. The vision was to have the
“best superfast broadband network in Europe by 2015”—
with targets of 90 percent of the population having access
to superfast broadband (defined as 24 Mb/s) and the rest
of the population to have access to at least 2 Mb/s by
2015.
The UK government has committed to investing £530
million in public funds by 2015 to support this goal. The
three devolved administrations in Scotland, Wales, and
Northern Ireland, and over 40 English local authorities,
have developed local broadband plans and committed
funding to match the government’s contribution. These
projects are now entering the procurement phase; the
scheme received state aid approval from the European
Commission on November 20, 2012. A smaller, £20
million fund—the Rural Communities Broadband Fund—is
targeted at small-scale broadband projects in rural areas,
and has over 50 projects under consideration.
The government has also committed £150 million
to establish an Urban Broadband Fund, which will
support projects in major cities to provide high-speed
connectivity—both fixed and wireless, with a strong
emphasis on small- and medium-sized enterprises and on
stimulating demand for high-speed broadband services.
The strategy foresees “private sector investment freed
from unnecessary barriers, supported by government
funding where the market cannot reach unaided.” A
package of measures was announced on September 7,
2012, aimed at supporting and enabling private-sector
investment, including streamlining planning restrictions on
broadband infrastructure and producing new guidance to
local authorities in relation to the laying of fiber and digging
of trenches in streetworks schemes.
The strategy is technology-neutral. It recognizes
that a mix of technologies—fixed, wireless, and satellite—
are needed to deliver superfast broadband throughout
the United Kingdom: one technology choice will not be
suitable for all circumstances. However, extending highcapacity fiber optic deeper into the network will be a key
feature of the United Kingdom’s network going forward.
Progress is reported in the Ofcom Infrastructure Report,
with 65 percent of premises now able to access superfast
broadband and average download speeds having risen to
12.7 Mb/s.
Sources: UK Government, Department for Culture, Media & Sport;
BIS 2010; Ofcom 2012.
Note: The United Kingdom also supports European targets for
minimum broadband speeds of 30Mb/s to every home and
business in Europe by 2020, and 50 percent take-up of 100
Mb/s services by 2020.

consultation and sought comments on the application
of EU state aid rules to the public funding of broadband
networks over the summer of 2012, with a view to
adopting definitive broadband guidelines in December
2012.15 The revised guidelines propose the possibility of
supporting ultra-fast broadband networks under certain
conditions.
The UK government has committed to ensuring the
rapid rollout of superfast broadband across the country
and “the best superfast broadband network in Europe by
2015.”16 It has detailed in precise terms how it intends to
achieve this in the strategy document Britain’s Superfast
Broadband Future (described in Box 3), which sets out
clear arguments for greater access to broadband as well
as identifying the services enabled by broadband.
LOOKING FORWARD
Countries today are prioritizing the importance of policy
leadership, as shown by the growth in the number of
national broadband plans. International organizations
also recognize the importance of policy leadership. Every
year, ITU hosts a Global Symposium for Regulators and
Global Regulators-Industry Dialogue (GRID) to debate
the trends transforming the ICT environment and to
consider their impact on the regulatory environment,
with the outcomes published in the form of best-practice
guidelines.17 The Broadband Commission for Digital
Development meets twice annually to consider the
trends and issues specific to broadband policy and
publishes its annual State of Broadband report, providing
a snapshot of the latest broadband market trends.
At a time of rapid technological evolution and
heightened economic uncertainty, it is vital for
governments, the industry, and regulators to work
together to review and regularly update regulatory and
policy frameworks. In this way we can ensure that the
frameworks are flexible, appropriate, and regularly
updated, can achieve optimal outcomes for network
deployment and national economic competitiveness.
NOTES
	 1	 ITU 2002.
	 2	 Katz 2011.
	 3	 See, for example, comments by US Vice-President Joe Biden,
who said at Seneca High School, on July 1, 2009, “The bottom
line is, you can’t function—a nation can’t compete in the 21st
century—without immediate, high-quality access for everything
from streaming video to information overline. . . . Getting
broadband to every American is a priority for this Administration”
(Nephin 2009). See also comments by Neelie Kroes, VicePresident of the European Commission responsible for the
Digital Agenda, who asked at the European Telecom Network
Operators Connecting Europe Facility Conference in Brussels in
October 2012, “Are we going to take our place as the connected,
competitive continent? Or are we going to stay antiquated and
analogue?” (Kroes 2012).

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 59

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

	 4	 Stiglitz 1999. In his chapter in Providing Global Public Goods:
Managing Globalization, Stiglitz argues that telecommunications
and the Internet are themselves global public goods; however,
most observers agree that it is the knowledge and information
provided over the Internet that are non-rivalrous and nonexcludable, rather than the networks (which may be rivalrous and
excludable).

Horton, B. 2012. “Setting National Broadband Policies, Strategies and
Plans.” In Trends in Telecommunication Reform 2012. Geneva: ITU.
Available from www.itu.int/ITU-D/treg/publications/trends12.html.

	 5	 According to the report Telecom Operators: Let’s Face It (Exane
BNP Paribas-Arthur D. Little 2012), telecommunication companies
face the choice of becoming mega operators with a global
footprint, local heroes focusing mainly on their national market or
immediate local markets, or engaging in a play for infrastructure
only.

———. 2009. Confronting the Crisis: ICT Stimulus Plans for Economic
Growth. Geneva: ITU. Available at www.itu.int/osg/csd/emerging_
trends/crisis/confronting_the_crisis_2.pdf.

	 6	 ITU 2009.
	 7	 For example, under the Connecting Europe Facility (CEF), it is
proposed to spend €50 billion over six years, from 2014 to 2020,
with €9.2 billion earmarked for broadband and digital services
to promote growth, jobs, and competitiveness through targeted
infrastructure investment at the level of the European region. This
will support the rollout of high-performing, sustainable, and joinedup trans-European networks in the fields of transport, energy, and
broadband and digital services.
	 8	 Alcatel Lucent Bell Labs 2011. The total impact of New Zealand’s
Ultra-Fast Broadband (UFB) network of $NZ 32.8 billion over
twenty years include 5.9 $NZ billion for healthcare, 3.6 billion $NZ
for education, 14.2 $NZ billion for business, and 9.1 $NZ billion
for dairy. Estimations of the economic benefits to New Zealand
of UFB applications take into account both increased returns and
savings.
	 9	 See, for example, calls by Prime Minister David Cameron for social
media services to be monitored and/or shut down during the
riots in the United Kingdom in August 2011, available from www.
guardian.co.uk/media/2011/aug/11/david-cameron-rioters-socialmedia.
	 10	 ITU 2009.
	 11	 ITU 2012.
	 12	 Horton 2012.
	 13	 Kelly and Rossotto 2012.
	 14	 Statement by Mr Julius Genachowski, Chairman of the US Federal
Communications Commission (FCC) to the New York meeting
of the Broadband Commission for Digital Development on 23
September 2012.

ITU. 2002. World Telecommunication Development Report 2002:
Reinventing Telecoms. Geneva: ITU. Available at http://www.itu.int/
ITU-D/ict/publications/wtdr_02/.

———. 2012. Trends in Telecommunication Reform 2012. Geneva: ITU.
Available at www.itu.int/ITU-D/treg/publications/trends12.html.
Katz, R. L. 2011. “The Impact of Broadband on the Economy: Research
to Date and Policy Issues.” In Trends in Telecommunication Reform
2010–2011: Enabling Tomorrow’s Digital World. Geneva: ITU.
19–57.Available at www.itu.int/ITU-D/treg/publications/trends10.
html.
Kelly, T. and C. M. Rossotto. 2012. Broadband Strategies Handbook.
Washington, DC: World Bank. Available at https://openknowledge.
worldbank.org/handle/10986/6009.
Kroes, N. 2012. “Connecting Europe with Fast Broadband.” Speech
delivered at the Connecting Europe Facility Conference,
Brussels, October 2. European Commission Press Release,
Speech 12/68. Available at http://europa.eu/rapid/press-release_
SPEECH-12-668_en.htm#PR_metaPressRelease_bottom.
Nephin, D. 2009. “Biden Announces Program to Expand Broadband
Internet Access for Rural Areas at Pa. Stop.” StarTribune.com,
Minneapolis-St. Paul, Minnesota. July 1. Available at http://www.
startribune.com/templates/Print_This_Story?sid=49613912.
Ofcom. 2012. Infrastructure Report: 2012 Update. Available at http://
stakeholders.ofcom.org.uk/binaries/research/telecoms-research/
infrastructure-report/Infrastructure-report2012.pdf.
Stiglitz, J. 1999. “Knowledge as a Global Public Good.” In Providing
Global Public Goods: Managing Globalization. 308–25. Available at
http://cgt.columbia.edu/files/papers/1999_Knowledge_as_Global_
Public_Good_stiglitz.pdf.
United Nations Broadband Commission. 2012. The State of Broadband
2012: Achieving Digital Inclusion for All. Geneva: ITU. Available
at http://www.broadbandcommission.org/Documents/
bb-annualreport2012.pdf.

	 15	 “State Aid: Commission Consults on Draft Guidelines for
Broadband Networks.” Available at http://europa.eu/rapid/
pressReleasesAction.do?reference=IP/12/550&format=HTML&age
d=0&language=EN&guiLanguage=en.
	 16	 BIS 2010.
	 17	 See ITU’s regulatory website, www.itu.int/ITU-D/treg/index.html;
for details of the latest Global Symposium for Regulators, GSR2011, see www.itu.int/ITU-D/treg/Events/Seminars/GSR/GSR11/
index.html; and for previous GSR events, see www.itu.int/ITU-D/
treg/Events/Seminars/GSR/index.html.

REFERENCES
Alcatel Lucent Bell Labs. 2011. “Building the Benefits of Broadband:
How New Zealand Can Increase the Social & Economic Impacts
of High-Speed Broadband.” Wellington, New Zealand: AlcatelLucent. Available at http://img.scoop.co.nz/media/pdfs/1202/
Building_the_Benefits_of_Broadband_WhitePaper.pdf.
BIS (Department for Business, Innovation & Skills). 2010. Britain’s
Superfast Broadband Future. London: BIS. Available at http://
www.culture.gov.uk/publications/7829.aspx.
Exane BNP Paribas-Arthur D. Little. 2012. Telecom Operators: Let’s
Face It. London and Paris: Exane BNP Paribas and Arthur D. Little.
Available at http://www.adlittle.com/downloads/tx_adlreports/
Arthur_D_Little_Exane_Study-Synthesis-2012.pdf.

60 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Appendix A:
Selected economies with national broadband policies, 2012

Policy available?

Year policy
was adopted

Type

Afghanistan

Yes

2008

Strategy

Afghanistan National Development Strategy: 1387–1391 (2008–
2013)

Albania

Yes

2008

Strategy

E-Albania

Algeria

Yes

2008

Strategy

E-Algérie 2013

Andorra

Yes

2009

Policy

Antigua & Barbuda

Yes

2012

Strategy

Argentina

Yes

2010a

Plan

Plan Nacional de Telecomunicaciones Argentina Conectada

Australia

Yes

2009

Plan

National Broadband Network

Austria

Yes

2010

Plan

Breitband strategie 2020

Country/Economy

Azerbaijan

Planned

Title/details

Universal Access Service
GATE 2012

Pending

Bahrain

Yes

2010

Policy

National BB Network for the Kingdom of Bahrain

Bangladesh

Yes

2009

Universal
Access Service

Barbados

Yes

2010

Plan

National Information and Communication Technologies Strategic
Plan of Barbados 2010–2015

Belgium

Yes

2009

Plan

België: digitaal hart van Europa

Belize

Yes

2011

Strategy

Benin

Planned

Broadband National Policy Act 2009

ICT National Strategy

Bhutan

Yes

2008

Plan

Botswana

Yes

2004

Strategy

Brazil

Yes

2010

Plan

National Broadband Plan (Plano Nacional de Banda Larga –
PNBL); Costa's Plan

Brunei Darussalam

Yes

2008

Plan

National Broadband Blueprint

Bulgaria

Yes

2009

Strategy

Burkina Faso

Yes

2006

Policy

Lettre de politique sectorielle 2006–2010

Burundi

Yes

2011

Project

Burundi/ICT: National projects for broadband connectivity;
Burundi Community Telecentre Network (BCTN)

Canada

Yes

2010

Plan

Cape Verde

Planned

National Broadband Master Plan Implementation Project (NBMIP)
Botswana’s National ICT Policy

National Strategy of broadband development in Republic of
Bulgaria

Broadband Canada: Connecting Rural Canadians
Pending

Central African Rep.

Yes

2006

Strategy

Politique, Stratégies et plan d'actions de l'édification de la
Société de l'Information en République Centrafricaine

Chad

Yes

2007

Plan

Plan de développement des technologies de l’Information et de la
Communication au Tchad ou PLAN NICI

Chile

Yes

2010

Strategy

Strategy for Digital Development; La Agenda Digital del Gobierno
de Chile para el período 2010–2014/ICT as a part of Chile’s
Strategy for Development: Present Issues and Challenges

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 61

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Policy available?

Year policy
was adopted

Type

China

Yes

2010

Initiative

Colombia

Yes

2011

Plan

Comoros

Planned

Country/Economy

Title/details

Three Network Convergence—National Government Investment
Live Digital—Vive Digital

Congo

Yes

2009

Program

Cook Islands

Yes

2003

Policy

Costa Rica

Yes

2012

Strategy

Estrategia Nacional de Banda Acha

Côte d'Ivoire

Yes

2010

Strategy

Objectifs Strategiques du Gouvernment de Côte d’Ivoire en
Matiere de Telecommunications et de TIC

Croatia

Yes

2011

Strategy

Strategy for Broadband Development in the Republic of Croatia
for 2012–2015

Cuba

West Africa Cable System (WACS)
National ICT Policy

Planned

Cyprus

Yes

2012

Strategy

Digital Strategy for Cyprus, which includes the Broadband Plan

Czech Republic

Yes

2011

Strategy

Digital Czech Republic—State policy in electronic
communications

Denmark

Yes

2010

Plan

Digital work program by the Minister of Science, Technology and
Innovation.

Djibouti

Yes

2004

Program

Plan d’action national pour l’exploitation des TIC en République
de Djibouti pour le développement national, EASSy

Dominican Republic

Yes

2007

Program

Conectividad Rural de Banda Ancha E-Dominicana (includes rural
broadband connectivity program)

Ecuador

Yes

2011

Plan

Estrategia Ecuador Digital 2.0 and BB PLAN

Egypt

Yes

2011

Plan

National Broadband Plan: A Framework for Broadband
Development

Equatorial Guinea

Yes

2010

Estonia

Yes

2006

Strategy

Ethiopia

Yes

2005

Policy

ICT Policy

Fiji

Yes

2011

Policy

National Broadband Policy

Finland

Yes

2005

Project

Broadband 2015 Project; Kainuu Information Society Strategy
2007–2015

France

Yes

2010

Plan

Gabon

Yes

2011

Strategy

Gambia

Yes

2008

Plan

Germany

Yes

2009

Strategy

Breitbandstrategie der Bundesregierung

Ghana

Yes

2010

Strategy

Broadband Wireless Access

Greece

Yes

2006

Plan

Digital Strategy 2006–2013

Grenada

Yes

2006

Strategy

Information and Communication Technology (ICT): A Strategy and
Action Plan for Grenada: 2006–2010

Guinea

Yes

2009

Plan

Plan National de frequences/Plan de développement de
l’infrastructure nationale d’information et de communication de la
République de Guinée 2001–2004

Guyana

Yes

2011

Project

62 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Information Society Development Plan 2013

Plan national très haut débit
Digital Gabon: vaste Programme de réformes multi sectorielles
dont la finalité est de faire du Gabon un Pays Emergent, à travers
les pilliers suivants: Gabon Industriel, Gabon vert et Gabon des
Services
The Gambian ICT4D-2012 Plan

E-Guyana

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Policy available?

Year policy
was adopted

Type

Honduras

Yes

2010

Policy

Hungary

Yes

2010

Plan

Hong Kong SAR

Yes

2008

Strategy

Iceland

Yes

2005

policy

India

Yes

2011

Plan

Indonesia

Yes

2010

Strategy

Priorities of the Ministry of Communication and Information
Technology Year 2010–2014

Country/Economy

Iraq

Title/details

Resolución NR 005/10—Normativa que regulará la prestación
de servicios de telecomunicaciones con conectividad de banda
ancha
Digital Renewal Action Plan
Digital 21
Telecom Policy Statement 2005–2010; new policy statement
coming
National Optical Fibre Network

Planned

Ireland

Yes

2008

Strategy

Ireland's Broadband Strategy

Israel

Yes

2012

initiative

The Communication Initiative: fiber-based national broadband
network

Italy

Yes

2010

Plan

Jamaica

Yes

2007

Strategy

Japan

Yes

2010

Plan

Jordan

Yes

2007

Strategy

National ICT Strategy of Jordan

Kazakhstan

Yes

2010

Strategy

Programme of ICT Development

Kenya

Yes

2006

Plan

ICT MasterPlan 2012-2017

Korea, Rep.

Yes

2009

Plan

Ultra Broadband Convergence Network

Latvia

Yes

2005

Strategy

Broadband development strategy for 2006–2012

Lebanon

Yes

2008

Strategy

Lebanese Broadband Stakeholders Group (LBSG)

Liberia

Planned

Italia Digitale (Digital Italy, Plan)
National ICT Strategy
New Broadband Super Highway (Haraguchi vision II)

National fiber backbone network

Liechtenstein

Yes

2006

Universal
Access Service

Lithuania

Yes

2005

Strategy

Strategy of Broadband Infrastructure Development in Lithuania in
2005–2010

Luxembourg

Yes

2010

Strategy

Stratégie nationale pour les réseaux à “ultra-haut” debit–L’ “ultrahaut” débit pour tous

Macedonia, FYR

Yes

2005

Strategy

National Strategy for the Development of Electronic
Communications with Information Technologies

Malawi

Yes

2003

Project

An Integrated ICT-led socioeconomic development policy for
Malawi

Malaysia

Yes

2010

Plan

Malta

Yes

2012

Policy

Provision of access at a fixed location

National Broadband Policy 2012–2020 (NBP2012)

Marshall Islands

Communications Act—Law on Electronic Communication

National BB Implementation NBI

Planned

Mauritius

Yes

2012

Policy

Mexico

Yes

2011

Strategy

Digital Agenda

Micronesia

Planned

Moldova

Yes

2010

Program

Hotărâre cu privire la aprobarea Programului de dezvoltare a
accesului la Internet în bandă largă pe anii 2010-2013

Mongolia

Yes

2011

Program

National Program on Broadband Network up to 2015

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 63

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Policy available?

Year policy
was adopted

Type

Montenegro

Yes

2012

Strategy

Morocco

Yes

2012

Plan

Namibia

Yes

2009

Policy

Country/Economy

Nepal

Planned

Title/details

Strategy for the Development of Information Society 2012–
2016—Montenegro–Digital Society
Plan national pour le développement du haut et très haut débit
au Maroc
Telecommunications Policy for the Republic of Namibia
Currently a draft under consultation

Netherlands

Yes

2010

Strategy

New Zealand

Yes

2010

Plan

Digital Agenda
Ultra-fast broadband initiative, Five Point Government Action Plan
for faster broadband

Nicaragua

Planned

Nigeria

Planned

Norway

Yes

2001

Plan

Oman

Yes

2012

Strategy

National Broadband Strategy

Pakistan

Yes

2007

Program

National Broadband policy 2004, National Broadband
Programme 2007

Panama

Yes

2008

Strategy

National ICT Strategy 2008–2018—la Autoridad de Innovación
Gubernamental

Papua New Guinea

Yes

2011

Policy

Paraguay

Yes

2011

Plan

Paraguay 2013 Conectado y Plan Nacional de
Telecomunicaciones—PNT

Peru

Yes

2010

Plan

Plan Nacional Para el Desarrollo de la Banda Ancha en el Perú

Philippines

Yes

2011

Strategy

The Philippine Digital Strategy, Transformation 2.0: Digitally
Empowered Nation

Poland

Yes

2008 and 2010

Strategy
and Law

The Strategy for the Development of the Information Society
in Poland until 2013 Mega-Bill: The act on supporting the
development of telecommunications services and networks

Portugal

Yes

2010

Strategy

Digital Agenda 2015 (2010–2015),

Qatar

Yes

2011

Plan

Romania

Yes

2007

Strategy

The Regulatory Strategy for the Romanian Electronic
Communications Sector for 2007–2010

Russian Federation

Yes

2010

Strategy

Information Society Strategy Information Society Programme

Rwanda

Yes

2006

Plan

Regional Connectivity Infrastructure Program (RCIP)

Samoa

Yes

2010

Plan

Broadband Spectrum Plan

Saudi Arabia

Yes

2010

Universal
Access Service

USF strategic Plan, Kingdom's strategy for the deployment of
broadband services (waiting for official approval)

2009

Strategy

BB Strategy till 2012, Стратегију развојa широкопојасног

Senegal
Serbia

Policy

National ICT policy—draft
Action Plan on Broadband communication

National ICT Policy and PNG LNG Fibre cable project

Qatar’s National ICT Plan 2015: Advancing the Digital Agenda;
Qatar National Broadband Network (Q.NBN)

Planned
Yes

приступа у Републици Србији до 2012. Године (Strategy for
the development of broadband in the Republic of Serbia until
2012)
Singapore

Yes

2005

Strategy

Intelligent Nation 2015 (or iN2015)

Slovak Republic

Yes

2006

Program

Operačný Program Informatizácia Spoločnosti (Operational
Program- Information society)

64 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.4: The Importance of National Policy Leadership

Country/Economy

Slovenia

Solomon Islands

Policy available?

Year policy
was adopted

Type

Yes

2008

Strategy

Title/details

Strategija razvoja širokopasovnih omrežij v Republiki Sloveniji
(Broadband Network Development Strategy)

Planned

South Africa

Yes

2010

Policy

Spain

Yes

2010

Plan

Plan Avanza: Plan Avanza: 2005, Plan Avanza 2 aprobado el
16/07/2010

Sri Lanka

Yes

2012

Plan

2012 - HSBB NBP to be launched, e- Sri Lanka

St. Kitts and Nevis

Yes

2006

Plan

National Information and Communications Technology (ICT)
Strategic Plan

St. Lucia

Planned

St. Vincent
and the Grenadines

Planned

Sudan

Planned

Broadband Policy for SA

Sweden

Yes

2011

Strategy

BB Strategy for Sweden

Switzerland

Yes

2007

Universal
Access Service

Tanzania

Yes

2004

Project

National Information Communication and Technology Broadband
Backbone (NICTBB)

Thailand

Yes

2010

Policy

The National Broadband Policy

Taiwan, China

Yes

2011

Policy

Broadband for Villages and Broadband for Tribes

The universal service with regard to telecommunications

Togo

Planned

Tonga

Yes

2011

Project

Tonga-Fiji Connectivity Project : Pacific Regional Connectivity
Program (PRCP)

Trinidad and Tobago

Yes

2008

Strategy

Trinidad & Tobago’s National Information & Communication
Technology Strategy-Fastforward—Accelerating into the Digital
Future

Tunisia

Yes

2012

policy

Turkey

Yes

2006

Strategy

Information Society Strategy 2006–2010; Ninth Development Plan
2007–2013

Uganda

Yes

2009

Strategy

Uganda Broadband Infrastructure Strategy National Position
Paper

United Kingdom

Yes

2010

Strategy

Britain’s Superfast Broadband Future, Broadband Delivery UK

United States

Yes

2010

Plan

Connecting America: The National Broadband Plan

Vanuatu

Planned

Vietnam

Yes

2010

Plan

Master Plan of Viet Nam, from 2010 to 2015 and Prime Minister's
Decree 1755/QĐ-TTg on the approval of a National Strategy on
Transforming Viet Nam into an advanced ICT country

Zimbabwe

Yes

2005

Initiative

Connection to the undersea cable initiatives promotes broadband
usage

Source: ITU/UNESCO Broadband Commission for Digital Development (www.broadbandcommission.org), based on the ITU ICT Eye regulatory database, available at https://www.itu.int/ITU-D/
icteye/.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 65

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.5

Fiber Broadband: A
Foundation for Social and
Economic Growth
SEAN WILLIAMS

BT

Sustainable, long-term growth in the European Union
(EU) is vital to the overall health of the world economy.
For a developed region such as the European Union, a
significant proportion of growth is likely to come from
knowledge-based industries, underpinned by information
and communication technologies (ICTs). Indeed, the
European Commission’s Europe 2020 vision describes
such a future for the region in the Digital Agenda.1
The foundation for digital prosperity is fiber
broadband Internet access, often referred to as superfast
broadband. In describing the economic benefits of
Internet adoption, a report for the McKinsey Global
Institute says: “[broadband] infrastructure, the backbone
of the entire Internet ecosystem, is an irreplaceable
prerequisite. It creates the platforms upon which users,
and organizations experience the Internet, and upon
which entrepreneurs and businesses innovate.”2
Indeed, superfast broadband access has the
potential to transform local economies, businesses,
households, and public services. It will help improve the
performance of existing firms, enable new businesses
to emerge, and encourage flexible working patterns.
Superfast broadband is key to opening global markets
to regions previously denied access, providing new job
opportunities, and boosting productivity.
Statistical evidence of the positive economic impact
of broadband infrastructure has existed for some years.
According to the Broadband Commission, a joint
body of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization (UNESCO) and the International
Telecommunication Union (ITU), every 10 percent
increase in broadband penetration results in additional
growth of 1.3 percent in national gross domestic
product (GDP).3 Similarly, in a 2011 study across 33
countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD) by Chalmers University of
Technology, consultancy Arthur D. Little and ICT vendor
Ericsson found that doubling the broadband speed for
an economy increases GDP by 0.3 percent.4
New research now available from Regeneris
Consulting provides even greater detail about the
potential economic impact of superfast broadband in
urban and—crucially—less-developed rural areas, as
demonstrated later in this chapter.5
Investment in fiber broadband also has the potential
to deliver social goods, for example by improving
public service levels in areas such as health, education,
e-government, and democratic participation at lower
cost than would be available offline. Evidence for social
goods is anecdotal rather than statistical.
The idea that broadband infrastructure can drive
economic development has been championed for some
time. Indeed, broadband infrastructure, coupled with
a functioning and fair market for access and services,
is central to Europe 2020 and the Digital Agenda for
Europe;6 it underlies similar strategies adopted by

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 67

1.5: Fiber Broadband

Figure 1: Economic impacts of superfast broadband

Flexible
working
patterns

New business

Improved performance of existing firms

Source: Regeneris Consulting, 2012.

OECD governments, including the UK government;7
and is espoused on a global scale by the Broadband
Commission.8
However, much of the thinking behind these
strategies predates the euro crisis. We need to recognize
that the effects of the global financial crisis that began in
2007 are still being felt more than five years later—and
even now, there is no immediate end in sight.
We no longer operate in a world where “build it
and they will come” is a viable strategy for developing
national-scale infrastructure. Nor are communication
markets currently in a healthy state. Revenues are
shrinking for telecommunication providers at the same
time that operating costs are increasing because of the
rising demand for data on networks.
How can the global, international, and national
visions for universal broadband Internet access be
fulfilled? Should these visions be put on hold until more
favorable economic conditions emerge, or should they
even be abandoned?
No, the big vision still holds promise. However,
new means of execution—in terms of both technology
and market dynamics—are required for an era where
the public purse is tightly constrained and the ability of
private firms to raise capital is diminished.
This chapter advances the debate first by reviewing
recent independent research from the economic
consultancy Regeneris Consulting, detailing the
economic impact of high-speed broadband infrastructure

68 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

on environments as diverse as capital cities and
economically deprived rural regions. Second, it aims to
articulate technical and market solutions that can meet
the challenge of the current economic climate.
ECONOMIC IMPACT
BT recently commissioned Regeneris Consulting to
assess the potential economic benefits of BT’s £2.5
billion investment in fiber broadband in the UK market,9
focusing on four areas:
•	 Norfolk and Suffolk, a rural area;
•	 Caerphilly, a town in Wales;
•	 Sunderland, a city in the northeast of England; and
•	 London, the United Kingdom’s capital city.
As businesses increasingly move into the digital
realm, fast Internet access is arguably more important
than conventional physical infrastructures in supporting
vital flexibility. Where fiber broadband is prevalent,
businesses can be encouraged to remain in or
relocate to regions previously excluded from traditional
regeneration, creating jobs and bringing economic
growth to those areas.
Supplying commercial premises with fiber
broadband will help businesses grow and benefit the
local economy by facilitating flexible working patterns,
enabling new startup businesses, and helping to improve
the performance of existing businesses (see Figure 1).

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.5: Fiber Broadband

Improved performance of existing firms
Fiber broadband will allow businesses to operate more
efficiently and to develop new products and services:
•	 Small and medium-sized firms will be able to
take advantage of the latest generation of online
collaboration tools—such as file and document
sharing, shared workspaces, and high-definition
video conferencing—that, before the advent of fiber
broadband, only large enterprises could afford to
exploit.
•	 Real-time online collaboration among colleagues
and business partners can accelerate decision
making and time to market, and reduce delays and
the need for business travel. By reducing or even
eliminating the requirement to travel, it can reduce
a firm’s carbon footprint and improve employees’
work-life balance.
•	 Several people can share the same connection and
not notice any degradation in performance, even if
they are using bandwidth-hungry applications such
as video conferencing or uploading large files.
•	 In all types of business, interaction with customers
and suppliers can also be enhanced—for example,
by enabling slicker, more interactive e-commerce
sites, and by reducing the time needed to upload
product demonstrations and how-to videos to both
the business’s own site and social media sites such
as YouTube.
Regeneris expects knowledge-based industries,
and the places where they are most concentrated, to
exploit faster broadband most effectively and generate
the greatest impacts. For example, the time required for
transferring large files such as videos, graphic designs, or
software applications can be cut from hours to minutes.
New businesses
Fiber broadband is expected to help greater numbers of
new businesses emerge by reducing barriers to entry in
certain sectors. Although there are many ways in which
this can occur, cloud computing is perhaps the most
significant because it dramatically reduces the required
upfront capital and ongoing support costs of setting up
in business and allows steady, flexible growth.
Superfast connectivity will also help firms of all
sizes exploit cloud computing so they can scale their
information technology (IT) systems dynamically to fit
their business needs, obviating the requirement for
firms to invest in server hardware and software licenses.
This can further help relieve the IT burden by making
remote data storage and backup easy to operate in the

background. The burden of security and upgrade falls to
the service provider and not to the business.
The carrot of abundant fiber broadband can also
encourage firms with purely digital business models to
relocate to previously underdeveloped areas.
Flexible working patterns
Widespread availability of fiber broadband will allow more
flexible working patterns, opening up new employment
opportunities and enhancing the productivity of existing
staff. With fiber broadband, employees will be able to
access data and applications from home, on the move,
or at the premises of customers or suppliers with the
same alacrity as they can in the office.
Regeneris estimated the cumulative impact on jobs
and gross value-added (GVA) among new and existing
firms exploiting faster, next-generation broadband
services over 15 years. In conducting the analysis, it
was assumed that the uptake and exploitation of faster
services will, in time, approach those currently found for
ADSL services. Regeneris drew on research from across
Europe to inform these assumptions.
Findings in detail
For any one location—whether a rural area, a town, or a
city—Regeneris found that fiber broadband could create
between £143 million and £19.8 billion in additional GVA.
This equates to an annual increase in GVA of between
0.3 percent and 0.5 percent.
For the rural area of Norfolk and Suffolk, for example,
Regeneris found that fiber broadband could lead to:
•	 an annual increase in GVA of 0.3 percent per annum
over 15 years: every £1 a business invests in fiber
broadband in this rural area will create nearly £15 in
additional GVA for the UK economy;
•	 roughly 1,470 business startups and support for 7,780
home workers as a result of cloud computing; and
•	 around 1,810 jobs created through business startups
and increased levels of trading at existing businesses.
For the UK town of Caerphilly, Regeneris found that
fiber broadband could lead to:
•	 an annual increase in GVA of 0.5 percent per annum
over 15 years: every £1 a business invests in fiber
broadband in this town will create nearly £16 in
additional GVA for the UK economy;
•	 roughly 140 business startups and support for 1,030
home workers as a result of cloud computing; and
•	 around 225 jobs created through business startups
and increased levels of trading at existing businesses.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 69

1.5: Fiber Broadband

For the UK city of Sunderland, Regeneris found that
fiber broadband could lead to:
•	 an annual increase in GVA of 0.4 percent per annum
over 15 years: every £1 a business invests in fiber
broadband in this city will create nearly £14 in
additional GVA for the UK economy;
•	 roughly 320 business startups and support for 1,580
home workers as a result of cloud computing; and
•	 around 436 jobs created through business startups
and increased levels of trading at existing businesses.
For London, the United Kingdom’s capital city,
Regeneris found that fiber broadband could lead to:
•	 an annual increase in GVA of 0.5 percent per annum
over 15 years: every £1 a business invests in fiber
broadband will create nearly £10 in additional GVA
for the UK economy;
•	 roughly 6,600 business startups and support
for 73,000 home workers as a result of cloud
computing; and
•	 around 26,200 jobs created through business
startups and increased levels of trading at existing
businesses.
In some economically deprived areas of the United
Kingdom, these dynamics are already at work. For
example, a business in Northern Ireland called Print It
For Me saves two hours a day that was previously spent
waiting for files to download.10 It also saves £7,500 a
year by using cloud-based backup for its IT systems,
replacing onsite equipment. The business concept is
relatively simple, but it would not be possible without the
ability to handle large files quickly over fiber broadband.
These types of businesses attract creative, techsavvy people who, in turn, bring prosperity to the region.
With this in mind, Cornwall and the Isles of Scilly in the
far west of England aim to become one of the bestconnected rural areas in Europe.11
In September 2010, BT announced an investment
of £78.5 million, backed up by a further £53.5 million
from the European Regional Development Convergence
funds and investment from the local authority of Cornwall
and the Isles of Scilly. The intention was, and remains, to
boost the local economy by attracting and retaining hightech, high-growth, creative, and low-carbon businesses
that make use of high bandwidth.
According to local authority leaders, the rollout
will create an estimated 4,000 new jobs and protect a
further 2,000 jobs that are currently under threat from
the recession.

70 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

SOCIAL IMPACT
What applies to businesses in terms of increased
efficiency and effectiveness can also apply to public
services. Online delivery of services can unlock
significant cost savings and serve to increase levels of
satisfaction among citizens.
Nevertheless, the social impact of superfast
broadband is more difficult to quantify than its impact on
jobs and economic performance. Real benefits around
improved access to lifelong learning, social inclusion,
more flexible working possibilities, and enhanced social
capital may be realized through superfast broadband.12
Also evident is the blurred area where the wider
economic impacts of superfast broadband take-up
translate into social goods such as retained and created
jobs, reduced transport congestion that in turn reduces
costs, enabled virtual agglomeration, and improved
economic adaptability and resilience.13
Enough anecdotal evidence has accumulated over
the years to present a body of potential best practice,
even though it is not easy to measure social impacts
objectively. Some of this evidence is presented below.
Citizen services
In 2010, the Guldborgsund Municipality in Denmark
opened what is arguably the first video-linked citizen
services center in Europe.14 The center enables citizens
in the remote region to receive one-on-one advice from
government officials at a much lower cost than a staffed
center could provide. Without this cost savings, the
center would have had to close, depriving the citizen of
this service. Other Danish municipalities are looking to
adopt the concept.
On a more humble scale, the cost to the United
Kingdom’s Driver Vehicle Licensing Agency of issuing
vehicle excise licenses has been cut by 45 percent since
the process was transferred online, saving around £8
million a year. The new system was used by 18 million
people in 2008.15
Fiber broadband makes such systems intuitive and
fluid to use.
Healthcare
These dynamics can also be applied to health services.
For example, the US Veterans Health Administration
(VHA), which provides healthcare for approximately 6
million military veterans, makes extensive use of e-health
technologies.16 Telemedicine is used in radiology, mental
health, cardiology, pathology, dermatology, and in-home
care tele-consultations for patients with spinal cord
injuries and those with other chronic conditions.
The current and previous US administrations
have cited the VHA as a model for the rest of the US
healthcare industry for providing efficient and effective
medical care. Other health authorities are looking to
learn from the VHA’s techniques.17

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.5: Fiber Broadband

Of course, hospitals cannot be replaced by
broadband connections, but many health services lend
themselves to online delivery. Among these telemedicine
services are booking appointments; consulting with
experts; and providing information about healthy diet,
exercise, treatment, and recovery after illness or treatment.
Education
With fiber broadband, similar models can also be
applied to education. Academic establishments can offer
remote access to live lectures and self-paced tuition as
part of lifelong learning, bringing access to education
to those who—because of a disability or for economic
or social reasons—are unable to regularly attend an
academic institution.
Numerous examples of this are already in use across
academia, which has benefitted from the high-bandwidth
Joint Academic Network (JANET) for many years.
One such instance is the Blackboard virtual learning
environment running at Bradford University in the north of
England, which enables students and academic staff to
collaborate remotely on learning materials.18
Local schools can also use remote-access, sharedlearning facilities to enable parents to participate more in
their children’s education and build a sense of community
around the school. One example of this is Radio Sandaig,
run by Sandaig primary school in Scotland.19
Furthermore, fast broadband access enables
existing health and education establishments to amplify
the services they can offer in the region by tapping into
the expertise available in national and even international
centers of excellence.
AFFORDABLE FIBER
How will the vision for a sustainable, growing economy
and improved society built on fiber broadband be achieved
when the public coffers are all but empty and private
capital expenditure is laboring under severe constraint?
The answer to this lies in two places: the technology
used for fiber broadband, and the dynamics of a
competitive market for access and value-added services.
Deployment needs to be as efficient as possible, making
the best use of the resources available and minimizing
disruption associated with the transition.20
Why not mobile?
With the arrival of 4G wireless infrastructure in various
parts of Europe, the mobile phone network now offers
connection speeds that potentially match those of
fixed broadband. Tests show that early 4G networks
are typically capable of delivering 36 Mb/s download
and 16 Mb/s upload speeds.21 Economically loaded
commercial networks in the field are, realistically, likely
to be considerably below these speeds. So could
mobile, rather than fixed wire, provide a viable economic
infrastructure for superfast broadband?

The problem here is one of cost of deployment
in a capital-constrained environment: mobile requires
expensive new infrastructure and wireless spectrum is
rationed, whereas fixed wire can leverage the telephone
infrastructure already in place.
Furthermore, wireless uses a shared resource for
connection to the customer. Thus, the more bandwidth
customers consume, the more spectrum and/or base
stations are required, so costs increase rapidly with
uptake. Eventually this becomes uneconomic. Fixedwire broadband has a far more graceful capacity-uplift
roadmap, even when hybrid fiber/copper solutions, such
as fiber-to-the-cabinet (FTTC), are deployed.
Arguably, a pure fiber infrastructure—where a fiber
connection is provided to every subscribing premise
(FTTP, also known as FTTx or FTT-home/-premise/subscriber)22—is unlikely ever to be capacity-constrained
because operators can simply add wavelengths to
increase capacity if needed. However, the economic
costs of universal FTTP delivery are prohibitive.
That said, high-speed mobile data does have a role
to play in a superfast infrastructure, as an in-fill technology
to reach remote communities where fixed line is
uneconomic (see the section “Reaching the rest,” below).
Why FTTC?
Where insufficient funding for the universal deployment
of FTTP but an established copper telephone
infrastructure exists, then FTTC makes economic
sense because it leverages assets already in place,
minimizes local disruption during rollout, and avoids the
most expensive and complex replacement of individual
connections to individual premises while still delivering
very high broadband speeds.
Dogmatic attachment to FTTP as the only
technology solution appropriate for fiber networks
is actually a barrier to investing in fiber broadband
because it massively increases the cost and disruption,
undermines the business case, and thus delays
deployment.23
The criticism leveled at FTTC is that it is not futureproofed. Further expenditure will be incurred in the
future to upgrade the network to FTTP as demand for
bandwidth increases. However, experience has shown
that there is plenty of headroom in FTTC technology for
bandwidth increases.
BT’s FTTC network in the United Kingdom is
currently able to deliver up to 80 Mb/s downstream
and up to 20Mb/s upstream speeds (depending on line
lengths).24 This is double the speed obtainable from
the technology available only 18 months ago, and is
comfortably in excess of the Digital Agenda’s aim of a
minimum coverage of 30 Mb/s.25
Technology providers are developing solutions
that could deliver over 200 Mb/s on FTTC. Future

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 71

1.5: Fiber Broadband

Figure 2: Growth of superfast broadband household penetration, European Union

15
 Belgium
 Denmark
 France
 Germany
 Italy
 Netherlands
 Portugal
  Spain
 Sweden
 United Kingdom
 United States

Penetration (% all households)

12

9

6

3

2012 Q2

2011 04

2011 Q2

2010 Q4

2010 Q2

2009 Q4

2009 Q2

2008 Q4

2008 Q2

2007 Q4

2007 Q2

2006 Q4

2006 Q2

2005 Q4

2005 Q2

2004 Q4

2004 Q2

2003 Q4

2003 Q2

2002 Q4

2002 Q2

0

Source: BSG, 2012.

technologies, such as G.fast, could see speeds
measured in gigabits over the final copper connection.26
That said, local factors such as housing density and
copper line length also have a significant impact on the
economics of technology choice.
Competitive market
The other foundation for achieving an affordable and
sustainable rollout of fiber broadband is a market for
access and value-added services that serves to keep
down consumer prices while ensuring high service
levels and continued investment in the network. An
environment that supports a large number of wholesale
telecommunication providers and retail Internet service
providers (ISPs) can enable this; it is also in the interests
of consumers and the major network operators.
The UK example shows that a healthy number of
wholesale telecommunication providers and retail ISPs
is an important driver for achieving and maintaining a
high number of end-subscribers, which underpins the
business case for network investment.27
Competition drives down prices. If a retail ISP
increases its price, there are dozens of others to which
customers can turn. Competition also ensures that
service standards are kept high. If a service provider
lets standards slip, there are dozens of others waiting
to snap up their customers. If any service provider
withdraws from the market, customers have a choice of
dozens of others to take their place.

72 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

BT is making the biggest purely commercial
investment in fiber access without state aid in Europe,
and is rolling out this fiber more quickly than any other
provider. Already about 60 ISPs are testing BT’s fiber
product.28 Its fiber broadband package has the same
headline price as copper-based broadband to encourage
rapid customer uptake.
Early indications show that this strategy is working.
Plotted against similar fiber rollouts in Europe and
Japan, BT appears to be ahead of the curve in terms
of penetration and subscriber uptake (see Figures 2, 3,
and 4). The UK government has committed to a target of
having the best superfast broadband in Europe by 2015.
REACHING THE REST
If superfast broadband is to fulfill its promise of
contributing to social and economic growth in the most
impoverished areas of the globe, it needs to connect all
citizens, even those who are in the most remote regions.
The commercial business case for fiber investment
will always fall short of full national coverage. That is just
a fact of life for communication networks: as customers
become more dispersed and more remote, the costs of
reaching them become uneconomic.
Nevertheless, the Digital Agenda calls for 100
percent coverage of the population with a minimum of
30 Mb/s broadband by 2020. Public funding should
be focused on reaching those outside the range of
economically viable private investment.
In the United Kingdom, the government has pledged
to provide £530 million to reach customers in the “final

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.5: Fiber Broadband

Figure 3: Penetration of superfast broadband homes passed, United Kingdom and Japan

Penetration (% homes passed)

15
 United Kingdom
 Japan

12

9

6

3

0
Yr1 Q1

Yr1 Q2

Yr1 Q3

Yr1 Q4

Yr2 Q1

Yr2 Q2

Yr2 Q3

Yr2 Q4

Yr3 Q1

Yr3 Q2

Yr3 Q3

Yr3 Q4

Number of quarters since the service was launched

Source: BSG, 2012.

Figure 4: Superfast broadband subscriber growth, United Kingdom and Japan

Penetration (% all households with subscription)

8
7
 United Kingdom
 Japan

6
5
4
3
2
1
0
Yr1 Q1

Yr1 Q2

Yr1 Q3

Yr1 Q4

Yr2 Q1

Yr2 Q2

Yr2 Q3

Yr2 Q4

Yr3 Q1

Yr3 Q2

Yr3 Q3

Yr3 Q4

Number of quarters since the service was launched

Source: BSG, 2012.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 73

1.5: Fiber Broadband

third,”29 who fall outside the viable business case for
private network development. BT believes that public
funding and additional private investment could bring
fiber broadband delivering up to 80 Mb/s to 90 percent
of the United Kingdom by the end of 2017, as well as
ensuring that perhaps 99 percent of premises are able to
access broadband of more than 2 Mb/s.
Achieving 99 percent coverage would still leave
some 280,000 premises unconnected, but technologies
that are able to fill this gap—such as fixed copper
and fiber networks or satellite and terrestrial wireless
solutions—could be deployed to reach these premises.
For example, in the remotest parts of the west of
England, trials to use the 4G mobile network,30 along
with wireless broadband in interleaved television
spectrum for delivering broadband to the very last
premises, are under way.
CONCLUSION
The vision of social and economic growth through fiber
broadband infrastructure that underpins a growth in
knowledge- and ICT-based jobs still holds promise. The
Regeneris research adds detail to a growing body of
evidence.
Specifically, Regeneris found that, from rural areas,
such as Norfolk and Suffolk, through towns and cities to
the capital, fiber broadband could lead to a significant
annual increase in GVA and the creation of jobs through
business startups and improved business performance.
Telecommunication providers such as BT can point to
economically deprived areas, such as Cornwall and
Northern Ireland, where these findings are apparent.
As Europe and the wider developed world attempts
to emerge from the recent financial crisis and downturn,
such growth will be vital.
The potential for social growth is strongly linked to
economic growth: an increase in jobs and prosperity,
along with a shift from waning high-carbon industries
to low-carbon, knowledge-based businesses and
reductions in travel and emissions all provide a social
benefit as well as an economic one. Evidence of social
growth is more anecdotal than evidence of economic
growth that is more easily measured—how does
one measure social growth?—but there are enough
anecdotal examples to build a sound case.
The issue, then, is not whether or not fiber
broadband can help drive social and economic
growth, but instead how to achieve coverage as
close as possible to 100 percent with minimum public
expenditure. This chapter argues for market-based
strategic solutions that governments and regional
authorities are strongly urged to adopt.
First, technical neutrality is fundamental.
Governments do not have a good track record of picking
technology winners and should let the market choose
solutions likely to attract the highest degree of private

74 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

investment. These solutions are likely to be those that
leverage existing telecommunication assets.
This may mean surrendering a dogmatic attachment
to deploying a pure fiber network. However, experience
has shown that hybrid fiber/copper technologies, such
as FTTC, can provide superfast broadband speeds and
are continuously increasing their potential speeds, and
at considerably lower costs and with less disruption than
deploying pure fiber to every end point. Surely it is better
to be able to afford superfast broadband for as close as
possible to 100 percent of the population than to adhere
to a technical specification that inhibits investment and
leaves more of the population unconnected.
Second, both the infrastructure and the market for
services must be designed to encourage competition. It
is more efficient to build a common superfast broadband
infrastructure shared by many equally competing
service providers than to build multiple competing
infrastructures. However, the common infrastructure
provider must be regulated to prevent it from exploiting
a monopolistic position, and the infrastructure must
remain open to service-level competition. As shown in
this chapter, multiple competing service providers can
drive down prices and maintain high service levels for
consumers.
Whether infrastructure providers are one or many,
standardization at the system level is vital. Retail margins
are wafer thin, so retail ISP systems for order handling,
billing, repair, and so on need to be highly automated
and integrated with wholesale telecommunication
provider systems.
With the large majority of population coverage
achieved through private investment, limited public
funds can be focused on the most remote areas that are
beyond the reach of the private business case.
NOTES
	 1	 See European Commission 2010a for details about the Europe
2020 vision; see European Commission 2010b for the Digital
Agenda for Europe.
	 2	 du Rausas et al. 2011.
	 3	 Broadband Commission 2010.
	 4	 Ericsson 2011.
	 5	 Regeneris Consulting 2012.
	 6	 European Commission 2010a; 2010b.
	 7	 BIS 2009.
	 8	 Broadband Commission 2011.
	 9	 Regeneris Consulting 2012.
	 10	 See http://www.btplc.com/ngb/Casestudies/Business/Printitforme.
pdf.
	 11	 Charlesworth 2010.
	 12	 BSG 2008.
	 13	 BSG 2008.
	 14	 Cisco 2011.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.5: Fiber Broadband

	 15	 BIS 2009.
	 16	 Empirica, Work Research Centre, and the Institute of Integrated
Study 2009.
	 17	 Cruickshank 2012.
	 18	 See http://www.bradford.ac.uk/management/about-the-school/
student-resources/blackboard/ .
	 19	 See http://www.sandaigprimary.co.uk/radio_sandaig/index.php.
	 20	 See BSG 2008.
	 21	 BBC News 2012.
	 22	 See Wikipedia, “Fiber to the x” entry. Available at http://
en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fiber_to_the_x.
	 23	 The Broadband Stakeholders Group released a report that
estimated that FTTP to the entire United Kingdom would
cost £28.8 billion. The report also looks at “whether an initial
deployment of FTTC would inhibit a subsequent upgrade to FTTH.
From a pure cost perspective it is not clear that this would be
a problem. About 50% of the initial FTTC investment could be
re-used in an FTTH upgrade.” Analysys Mason for the BSG 2008,
p. 4.
	 24	 Jackson 2012; see also BT 2010, p. 17; and the BT Openreach
Fact Sheet, available at http://www.openreach.co.uk/orpg/home/
products/super-fastfibreaccess/fibretothecabinet/fttc/downloads/
GEA_FTTC_3.pdf.
	 25	 See European Commission 2010b.
	 26	 Maes 2012.

BT. 2010. BT Group plc Annual Report 2010. Available at http://www.
btplc.com/Sharesandperformance/Annualreportandreview/pdf/
BTGroupAnnualReport2010.pdf.
———. 2011a. “Everything Everywhere and BT Wholesale to Deliver
the UK’s First Live Customer Trial of 4G High Speed Broadband
Technology.” BT Press Release, May 25. Available at http://www.
btplc.com/news/Articles/ShowArticle.cfm?ArticleID=30F2E8DBDFEC-4D1F-90E8-77D089DCD576.
———. 2011b. “Everything Everywhere and BT Wholesale Kick-Off 4G
Live Trial.” BT Press Release, October 6. Available at http://www.
btplc.com/news/Articles/ShowArticle.cfm?ArticleID=0B0E2C53C4B2-4595-8BE7-B5E41C799023.
———. 2012. BT Annual Report and Form 20-F2012. Available at http://
www.btplc.com/Sharesandperformance/Annualreportandreview/
pdf/BTAnnualReport2012_smart.pdf.
Charlesworth, A. 2010. “Fibre Boosts Cornish Bid for Digital Business.”
computing.co.uk, October 1. Available at http://www.computing.
co.uk/ctg/news/1863412/fibre-boosts-cornish-bid-digitalbusiness.
Cisco. 2011. “ Guldborgsund Municipality Enhances Citizen Services via
Pervasive Video.” Cisco. Available at http://www.cisco.com/en/US/
solutions/collateral/ns813/guldborgsund_cStudy.pdf.
Cruickshank, J. 2012. Telehealth: What Can the NHS Learn from
Experience at the US Veterans Health Administration?
London: 2020health.org. Available at http://www.2020health.
org/2020health/Publication-2012/publications-2012/Telehealth.
html.
du Rausas, M. P., J. Manyika, E. Hazan, J. Bughin, M. Chui, and R.
Said. 2011. Internet Matters: The Net’s Sweeping Impact on
Growth, Jobs, and Prosperity, May. McKinsey Global Institute.
Available at http://www.mckinsey.com/insights/mgi/research/
technology_and_innovation/internet_matters.

	 27	 Ofcom 2010.
	 28	 BT 2012, p. 45.
	 29	 GOV.UK DCMS 2013.

Empirica, Work Research Centre, and the Institute of Integrated Study,
Vienna University of Technology. 2009. ICT & Ageing: European
Study on Users, Markets and Technologies. Study funded by the
European Commission. Bonn: Empirica. Available at http://www.
ict-ageing.eu/?page_id=1325.

	 30	 BT 2011a, 2011b.

REFERENCES
Analysys Mason for BSG. 2008. The Costs of Deploying Fibre-Based
Next-Generation Broadband Infrastructure: Final Report. Report
commissioned by the Broadband Stakeholder Group. Cambridge,
UK: Analysys Mason Ltd. Available at http://www.dc10plus.net/
resources/documents/http___www.broadbanduk.pdf.
BBC News. 2012. “4G Speed Put to the Test.” BBC News Technology,
October 2. Available at http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/
technology-19805535
BIS (Department for Business, Innovation & Skills). 2009. Digital Britain:
Final Report. London: Department for Culture, Media & Sport and
Department for Business, Innovation & Skills. Available at http://
webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/+/http://www.culture.gov.uk/
images/publications/digitalbritain-finalreport-jun09.pdf.
Broadband Commission. 2010. A 2010 Leadership Imperative:
The Future Built on Broadband. A report by the Broadband
Commission. ITU and UNESCO, September. Available at http://
www.broadbandcommission.org/Reports/Report_1.pdf.
———. 2011. Broadband: A Platform for Progress A report by the
Broadband Commission. ITU and UNESCO, June. Available at
http://www.broadbandcommission.org/Reports/Report_2.pdf.
BSG (Broadband Stakeholder Group). 2008. A Framework for Evaluating
the Value of Next Generation Broadband, June. London: Plum
Consulting. Available at http://broadband.cti.gr/el/download/BSG_
Value_of_next_generation_broadband_06_2008.pdf.
———. 2012. Demand for Superfast Broadband: Understanding
Demand in Europe, the US and Asia; How the UK Is Currently
Performing; and What Might Impact Take-Up in the UK in the
Future. London: Broadband Stakeholder Group. Available at
http://www.broadbanduk.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/
superfastbroadband.pdf.

Ericsson. 2011. “New Study Quantifies the Impact of Broadband Speed
on GDP.” Press Release, September 27. Available at http://www.
ericsson.com/news/1550083.
European Commission. 2010a. Europe 2020: A Strategy for Smart,
Sustainable and Inclusive Growth. Brussels: European
Commission. Available at http://ec.europa.eu/eu2020/pdf/
COMPLET%20EN%20BARROSO%20%20%20007%20-%20
Europe%202020%20-%20EN%20version.pdf/.
———. 2010b. Digital Agenda for Europe: A Europe 2020 Initiative.
Available at http://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/.
GOV.UK. DCMS (Department for Culture, Media & Sport). 2013. Policy:
Stimulating Private Sector Investment to Achieve a Transformation
in Broadband in the UK by 2015. Published February 27. Available
at http://www.culture.gov.uk/what_we_do/telecommunications_
and_online/7763.aspx.
Jackson, M. 2012. “BT Makes its 80Mbps Superfast FTTC Broadband
Upgrade Available to ISPs.” ISPreview. Posted April 10. Available
at http://www.ispreview.co.uk/index.php/2012/04/bt-makes-its80mbps-superfast-fttc-broadband-upgrade-available.html.
Maes, J. 2012. “G.fast: Shifting the Limits of Copper.” At the Speed of
Ideas, January 19. Bell Labs, Alcatel-Lucent. Available at http://
www.uknof.org.uk/uknof21/Maes-Gfast.pdf.
Ofcom. 2010. “Review of the Wholesale Local Access Market:
Statement.” Ofcom, July 10. Available at http://stakeholders.ofcom.
org.uk/consultations/wla/statement.
Regeneris Consulting. 2012. Superfast Broadband: Boosting Business
and the UK Economy. Report commissioned by BT. London:
BT. Available at http://www.btsocialstudy.co.uk/investing_in_
broadband.html.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 75

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.6

The Economic Impact
of Next-Generation
Mobile Services: How 3G
Connections and the Use
of Mobile Data Impact GDP
Growth
CHRIS WILLIAMS
DAVIDE STRUSANI
DAVID VINCENT
DAVID KOVO

Deloitte LLP

Mobile communication services have become an
essential part of how economies work and function, and
the mobile telecommunication sector continues to offer
unprecedented opportunities for economic growth in
both developing and developed markets.
A series of studies have found a link between mobile
penetration and economic growth.1 Mobile phones have
improved communication, enhanced social inclusion,
and expanded economic activity and productivity in
sectors such as agriculture, healthcare, education, and
finance.
Against this backdrop, Deloitte and the GSM
Association (GSMA) have performed a comprehensive
and up-to-date analysis of the role that basic mobile
phone services play in generating economic growth.2
The study concludes that, in developing markets,
increases in mobile penetration benefit gross domestic
product (GDP) growth per capita and boost country
productivity.
As technology develops, mobile services have the
potential of impacting a country’s economy by providing
high-value 3G and 4G data services that are accessed
via smartphones, tablets, and dongles that deliver
mobile data services to businesses and consumers. The
relationship among economic growth, 3G telephony, and
mobile data use has not yet been explicitly explored; this
chapter seeks to address this gap.
The chapter presents the first study of (1) the impact
on GDP per capita growth of consumers substituting a
3G connection for a 2G connection, and (2) the impact of
increasing the usage of mobile data per 3G connection,
based on data from Cisco Systems. The details of the
econometric analysis conducted are reported in more
detail in a 2012 report prepared by Deloitte for the
GSMA.3
THE IMPACT OF 3G PENETRATION ON GDP
GROWTH
As mobile telephony markets become more mature,
the benefits to be derived from basic mobile voice and
text services on growth and productivity are achieved.
Although the impact of 2G services is significant,
as more developed 3G technology replaces 2G, an
incremental economic impact is observed. Differential
economic growth is supported because these

Deloitte refers to Deloitte LLP, the UK member firm of Deloitte Touche
Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL). Please see www.deloitte.co.uk/about for a
detailed description of the legal structure of DTTL and its member firms.
This publication contains general information only, and none of DTTL, its
member firms, or their related entities (collectively, the Deloitte Network)
is, by means of this publication, rendering professional advice or services.
Before making any decision or taking any action that may affect your
finances or your business, you should consult a qualified professional
adviser. No entity in the Deloitte Network shall be responsible for any loss
whatsoever sustained by any person who relies on this publication.
Particular thanks are owed to Gabriel Solomon (GSMA) and Robert
Pepper (Cisco Systems) for their feedback on earlier drafts.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 77

1.6: The Economic Impact of Next-Generation Mobile Services

Figure 1: Potential impact of a 10 percentage point 3G penetration increase, selected countries

n  Average mobile penetration (2008–11)
  10 percentage point increase in 3G penetration
n  Average 3G penetration (2008–11)
108%

91%
79%

+3% GDP
per capital
growth

+0.9% GDP
per capital
growth

+1.5% GDP
per capital
growth

+10%
+10%
+10%
5%

Colombia

16%

10%

Indonesia

South Africa

Source: Deloitte analysis.
Note: The size of the circle reflects the increase in GDP per capita growth due to the 10 percentage point increase in 3G penetration.

technology changes allow consumers and businesses
to benefit from high-value wireless data and content
services. This relationship had not yet been explicitly
quantified yet.
The penetration of 3G technology—measured as
the number of 3G connections per 100 people—has
increased significantly worldwide in recent years: by
2011, 3G penetration had reached over 60 percent
of the population in Western Europe and over 90
percent in the United States. This growth is supported
by the availability of devices such as phones with 3G
capabilities, smartphones, and tablets, all of which have
recently proliferated.
In developed markets, where basic mobile
penetration has long exceeded 100 percent, as well
as in the higher-income consumer and business user
segments in developing markets, a substitution effect
has taken place in mobile telephony whereby mobile
users who previously consumed standard services
have been acquiring 3G connections. Although this
substitution does not necessarily increase total mobile
penetration, this section of the chapter quantifies the
effect on GDP growth of consumers and businesses
substituting a standard 2G mobile connection with a 3G
connection.
The econometric approach adopted to measure
this effect follows previous work on the impact of mobile
penetration on GDP growth.4 Including both total mobile
penetration and 3G penetration in the econometric
model allows us to interpret the coefficient of the
3G penetration variable as the impact of increasing

78 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

3G penetration while keeping all other factors equal,
including total mobile penetration.
The central issue of reverse causality between
mobile and 3G penetration and income growth,
whereby higher levels of mobile and 3G penetration are
expected to affect GDP but also higher income levels
affect penetration, was given explicit consideration. We
employed the generalized method of moments estimator
of Arellano and Bond (1991), whereby mobile penetration
and 3G penetration are instrumented using their own
lags.
A panel of 96 countries was constructed with
data covering 2008 through 2011.5 Years before 2008
were not included in the analysis because of the late
development of 3G networks in many countries.
The annual growth rate of real GDP per capita
was expressed as a function of the lag of real GDP per
capita, 3G penetration, mobile penetration, and a set
of four determinants of growth. These determinants
are government expenditure, trade volumes, aggregate
investment, and total labor force. All variables have been
transformed into logarithmic form.
This analysis finds that, for a given level of mobile
penetration and across the whole sample of countries
considered, those countries that had a 10 percent higher
3G penetration between 2008 and 2011 experienced an
increase in their average annual GDP per capita growth
rate of 0.15 percentage points.
These results indicate that countries with a
proportionately higher share of 3G connections enjoy
greater GDP per capita growth than countries with

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.6: The Economic Impact of Next-Generation Mobile Services

Figure 2: The effect of doubling mobile data usage per 3G connection

1.5

Increase in growth rate of GDP per capita (%)

Russian Federation

1.2
United Kingdom
Korea, Rep.

0.9
Italy
Japan
France
Brazil

Germany

0.6
Canada
Mexico

United States

0.3
China

South Africa

India

0.0
0.0

0.5

1.0

1.5

2.0

2.5

Average usage per 3G connection (GB/year)
Source: Deloitte analysis.

comparable total mobile penetration but lower 3G
penetration.
For a similar absolute increase in the number of
3G connections, those countries with lower initial 3G
penetration experienced a higher impact on GDP per
capita growth. To consider three specific countries—
Colombia, Indonesia, and South Africa: if each
country had 10 more 3G connections per 100 total
connections—that is, an increase of 10 percentage
points—Colombia would have enjoyed an additional
growth rate in GDP per capita of 3 percentage points,
Indonesia would have generated an additional growth
in GDP per capita of 1.5 percentage points, and South
Africa would have enjoyed an additional 0.9 percent GDP
per capita growth (Figure 1).
THE IMPACT OF MOBILE DATA ON GDP GROWTH
The increase in 3G connections, supported by the
proliferation of data-enabled devices that allow mobile
Internet connectivity, has led to massive growth in mobile
data usage.
The Cisco Systems Visual Networking Index shows
that, on average, total mobile data usage has more than
doubled every year from 2005 to 2010 in each country
in the sample.6 In the United States, mobile data usage
grew, on average, by 400 percent a year between 2005
and 2010, while in the Western European countries
considered, it grew by an average of 350 percent. In
countries such as Brazil, China, and India, total usage
has also more than doubled, on average, every year
since mobile data was introduced.

Mobile data usage per 3G connection also more
than doubled, on average, every year from 2005 to 2010
in each country in the sample, despite the considerable
increase in 3G connections. In the United States, mobile
data usage per 3G connection grew, on average, by
more than 300 percent a year between 2005 and 2010,
while in the Western European countries considered it
grew by 170 percent over the same period.
Growth in mobile data consumption, by transforming
the way in which consumers and businesses operate
and communicate, has had a notable impact on
economic growth through increased productivity
effects and economic activity. However, given the
limited availability of data, this impact has not been fully
investigated before.
For the first time, using detailed information provided
by Cisco Systems on mobile data usage between
2005 and 2010 in 14 countries for which historical
disaggregated data is available,7 mobile data usage for
each 3G connection in a country can be calculated.
The econometric approach introduced by Arellano
and Bond (1991) made it possible to address the
potential endogeneity of mobile penetration and mobile
data usage by instrumenting these variables using
their own lags. This technique also best exploits the
information—such as the cross-country variation in the
sample and the variation within countries across time—
contained in the dataset.
The annual growth rate of real GDP per capita
was expressed as a function of the lag of real GDP per
capita, mobile penetration, mobile data usage per 3G

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 79

1.6: The Economic Impact of Next-Generation Mobile Services

connection, and a set of determinants of growth such
as aggregate investment and labor force. Logarithms
of all variables were used, with the exception of mobile
penetration and mobile usage, to which the inverse
hyperbolic sine transformation has been applied. An
additional parameter has also been included within each
inverse hyperbolic sine transformation to accommodate
more general forms of nonlinearity.
This analysis finds a positive relationship between
the volume of mobile data used by each 3G connection
and increases in economic growth. On average, across
the sample of 14 countries considered, if countries
doubled their consumption of mobile data per 3G
connection between 2005 and 2010, they would have
experienced a growth rate of GDP 0.5 percentage points
each year.
The results indicate that mobile data usage per 3G
connection has a positive effect on the growth rate of
GDP per capita. This effect grows linearly with the initial
level of data usage per 3G connection in the country:
countries with a higher average level of mobile data
consumption per 3G connection experience a larger
impact on GDP per capita growth from increasing this
consumption (Figure 2).
Countries such as Russia, the United Kingdom,
and the Republic of Korea—which are characterized
by a higher level of data usage per 3G connection—
experience an increase in GDP per capita growth of
up to 1.4 percentage points. The effect is more limited
for countries that are still developing mobile data
usage, such as China, India, Mexico, and South Africa,
supporting scope for further growth.
CONCLUSION
This work has shown that, as more-developed 3G
technology substitutes for 2G technology, there is a
strong incremental impact on economic growth.
Although the study represents the first attempt to
quantify the impact of advanced mobile telephony on
GDP per capita growth, related studies consistently
suggest that the adoption and use of successive new
generations of mobile devices (i.e., consumers switching
from 2G to 3G technologies and from 3G to 4G) have
generated positive impacts also on employment growth.8
This economic growth is enhanced by the usage of
mobile data services, which has boomed in developed
markets in recent years and has a positive effect on an
economy’s GDP per capita growth.
To achieve the benefits highlighted in this chapter,
governments must focus on increasing 3G and
potentially 4G penetration in markets where mobile
data services are still developing by encouraging
the substitution of basic mobile services with more
advanced connections and by supporting a fast increase
of mobile data consumption.

80 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

NOTES
	 1	 Qiang and Rossotto with Kimura 2009; Waverman, Meschi, and
Fuss 2005; Deloitte 2006; Andrianaivo and Kpodar 2011; Lee,
Levendis and Gutierrez 2009.
	 2	 Deloitte 2012.
	 3	 Deloitte 2012.
	 4	 See Andrianaivo and Kpodar 2011; Lee, Levendis, and Gutierrez
2009.
	 5	 See Deloitte 2012. These are the 96 countries for which 3G
penetration data were available from 2008.
	 6	 See Cisco VNI Mobile Highlights at http://www.cisco.com/web/
solutions/sp/vni/vni_mobile_forecast_highlights/index.html; Cisco
Systems has provided disaggregate historic data on mobile data
usage for the purposes of this study.
	 7	 The 14 countries for which data were available are Brazil, Canada,
China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, the Republic of Korea,
Mexico, Russia, South Africa, the United Kingdom, and the United
States.
	 8	 For example, Shapiro and Hassett 2012.

REFERENCES
Andrianaivo, M. and K. Kpodar. 2011. “ICT, Financial Inclusion, and
Growth: Evidence from African Countries.” IMF Working Papers.
Washington, DC: IMF.
Arellano, M. and S. Bond. 1991. “Some Tests of Specification for Panel
Data: Monte Carlo Evidence and an Application to Employment
Equations.” Review of Economic Studies 58 (2): 277–97.
Cisco. VNI Mobile Forecast Highlights, 2012–2017. Available at http://
www.cisco.com/web/solutions/sp/vni/vni_mobile_forecast_
highlights/index.html.
Deloitte. 2006. Global Mobile Tax Review 2006–2007. Report prepared
for the GSM Association. Available at http://www.gsma.com/
newsroom/wp-content/uploads/2012/03/taxreport1.pdf.
———. 2012. What Is the Impact of Mobile Telephony on Economic
Growth? Report prepared for the GSM Association. Available at
http://www.gsma.com/publicpolicy/wp-content/uploads/2012/11/
gsma-deloitte-impact-mobile-telephony-economic-growth.pdf.
Lee, S. H., J. Levendis, and L. Gutierrez. 2009. “Telecommunications
and Economic Growth: An Empirical Analysis of Sub-Saharan
Africa.” Serie Documentos de Trabajo no. 64. Available from SSRN
at http://ssrn.com/abstract=1567703.
Qiang, C. Z.-W. and C. M. Rossotto (with K. Kimura). 2009. “Economic
Impacts of Broadband.” In Information and Communications
for Development: Extending Reach and Increasing Impact.
Washington, DC: World Bank. 35–50.
Shapiro, R. J. and K. A. Hassett. 2012. “The Employment Effects
of Advances in Internet and Wireless Technology: Evaluating
the Transitions from 2G to 3G and from 3G to 4G.” Report.
Washington, DC: New Policy Institute and NDN. Available at http://
www.sonecon.com/docs/studies/Wireless_Technology_and_JobsShapiro_Hassett-January_2012.pdf.
Waverman, L., M. Meschi, and M. Fuss, 2005. “The Impact of Telecoms
on Economic Growth in Developing Markets.” The Vodafone
Policy Paper Series (2): 10–23. Available at http://www.vodafone.
com/content/dam/vodafone/about/public_policy/policy_papers/
public_policy_series_2.pdf.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.7

Better Measurements
for Realizing the Full
Potential of Health
Information Technologies
ELETTRA RONCHI, Organisation for Economic

Co-operation and Development
JULIA ADLER-MILSTEIN, University of Michigan
GENNA R. COHEN, University of Michigan
LAURA P. WINN, Harvard School of Public Health
ASHISH K. JHA , Harvard School of Public Health

Understanding the challenges to the adoption and
effective use of information and communication
technologies (ICTs) in health systems, along with their
broader economic impacts, is critical to achieving their
widespread penetration and to realizing the potential
benefits to be had from their application. Today, ICT
sophistication and the range of possible uses in the
health sector are enormous. There is strong evidence
that ICT implementation, when done effectively, can
result in healthcare that is higher quality, safer, and more
responsive to patients’ needs as well as more efficient
(appropriate, available, and less wasteful). Advocates
point to the potential reduction in medication errors in
particular as a critical advantage. There is also growing
evidence that health ICTs are essential to support the
development of new, innovative models of care delivery.1
In addition to these health-related objectives,
most governments in the Organisation for Ecoomic
Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries
recognize that health ICTs represent new and significant
opportunities for economic growth. The global market for
health ICT products and services is estimated at US$96
billion and growing.2 In Europe, this sector includes a
number of large European-based companies as well as
an estimated 5,000 small- and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs) operating in various subsectors of e-health.
E-health is considered one of the six most promising
lead markets of the European Union.3 Greater adoption
of health ICTs is, therefore, projected to increase
the demand for developers and skilled workers to
implement, support, and use these technologies.
Despite their tremendous promise, incorporating
ICTs into daily use in healthcare has proven difficult.
More than two decades of effort across OECD countries
provides a picture of significant public investments,
notable successes, and also highly publicized delays and
failures.4 This outcome highlights the large gap between
what is possible and where we are now, with little known
about how to fully leverage ICTs to improve the health
and wellness of the population. Data on successful
adoption and use across countries are therefore an
essential learning tool for policy development in this
area.5
This chapter briefly reviews OECD countries’ efforts
to implement ICTs in healthcare systems and includes
current perspectives on the state of implementation
and benefits that can be realized. It then highlights
areas where countries are finding it useful to share
information and develop actionable indicators to monitor

The OECD benchmarking initiative described in this chapter is co-financed
by a grant provided by the Commonwealth Fund, which the authors gratefully acknowledge. The views presented here are those of the authors and
not necessarily those of OECD Member countries, the Commonwealth
Fund, or its directors, officers, or staff.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013 | 81

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

progress through international comparisons. The chapter
concludes with a discussion on the process the OECD
is now following to develop new measures to facilitate
international comparisons in the context of their markedly
different healthcare systems.
A GROWING IMPERATIVE: DOING MORE
WITH LESS
Policymakers in OECD countries are faced with everincreasing demands to make health systems more
responsive to the patients they serve, to improve the
quality of care, and to address disparities in health
and in access to care. There is broad consensus that
today’s healthcare systems are not able to deliver the
high-quality care that patients and providers want at
a cost that countries can afford. Therefore, there is an
urgent need to improve care and increase efficiency
simultaneously.
Health is one of the largest areas of public
expenditure in OECD countries, and forecasts show
health spending continuing to climb for the foreseeable
future.6 From 1990 through 2010, an increasing share of
the gross domestic product (GDP) of OECD countries
has been devoted to the provision of healthcare. On
average, total healthcare spending represented about
9.5 percent of GDP by 2010 (Figure 1)—up from just
over 5 percent in 1970 and around 7 percent in 1990.
In Japan, the share of spending allocated to health has
increased substantially in recent years, to 9.5 percent (up
from 7.6 percent in 2000), and is now equal to the OECD
average. While the rate of increase in health spending
has slowed in the period 2003–08, health expenditure
growth has still exceeded economic growth in almost all
OECD countries in the past 15 years.
Factors exerting upward pressure on health
spending—such as demographic change, chronic
diseases, and new technological advancements—will
continue to drive health spending higher. According to
OECD projections, public health spending could increase
by between 50 percent and 90 percent by 2050. The
message is simple yet urgent: the sustainability and
affordability of health systems is a challenge that must
be addressed.
Governments have a wide range of policy tools
available to control the escalation of costs. “Commandand-control” policies can hold expenditures down
in the short term, but they often have unintended
consequences in the long term. In addition, such policies
do little or nothing to moderate the underlying pressures
that will continue to push health spending up.7
There are other promising avenues for controlling
health spending in the longer term. For example,
improving the quality of healthcare, increasing patient
safety, and coordinating care across healthcare settings
can all assist in controlling costs. Shifting care out of
expensive, acute care settings and into the community

82 | The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013

and the home has also gained greater prominence as
the prevalence of chronic diseases (and often multiple
chronic diseases) increases with aging populations.
Recent evidence suggests that ICTs can play a critical
role in achieving this set of goals. To reap the potential
gains of ICTs, however, requires careful planning,
significant upfront investments, and collaboration across
a wide range of stakeholders. Thus many countries face
a dilemma: short-term and long-term policy priorities
may point in different directions. Without solid evidence
on which to base decisions, spending on ICTs for health
has become a matter of opinion and often a political
gamble. Policymakers therefore seek a clearer view of
the “theory of the case”—that is, better evidence on
why they should support widespread use of ICTs in
healthcare and how best to do this.
WHAT ICTs CAN (AND CANNOT) DO FOR
HEALTHCARE SYSTEMS
A more comprehensive use of ICTs can benefit
healthcare systems in numerous ways. This section
examines how expanded and better use of ICTs can
contribute to job creation; help reduce healthcare
spending; improve the safety of healthcare; and make
shared, intelligible data a foundation for healthcare
delivery innovation.
Promote new sources of growth and job creation
The health and social sectors employ a large and
growing number of people in OECD countries and are
projected to be one of the largest sources of job growth
in the coming years. Employment in these sectors grew
by 2.8 percent per year in nearly all OECD countries
between 1995 and 2009—twice as fast as the total
civilian employment growth rate of 1.3 percent (Figure 2).
Across OECD countries, the recent economic crisis
has impacted the health and social sectors much less
than other parts of the economy. Employment in these
sectors continued to increase in 2008 and 2009, at a
time when total civilian employment remained flat or
even declined as economies entered into recession. In
Ireland, for instance, employment in the health and social
sectors grew by 3 percent from 2008 to 2009, while total
employment fell by 8 percent.8
This trend is expected to continue and will probably
accelerate in the next few years. The increased demand
for workers in this area will stem largely from an aging
population that requires care at home, at nursing care
facilities, and in inpatient and outpatient settings.
The field of health information technology (IT) is
set to contribute to this growth in several ways. First,
greater adoption will stimulate demand for jobs that
directly support the development of the new platforms
and applications, their implementation, and their
upkeep. It will also change the way physicians and
nurses work, potentially creating new jobs for healthcare

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

Figure 1: Health expenditure as a share of GDP, OECD countries (2010)

20

n Private
n Residual
n Public

Percent GDP

15

10

5

United States
Netherlands1
France
Germany
Canada
Switzerland
Denmark
Austria
Portugal
Belgium2
Greece
New Zealand
United Kingdom
Spain (2009)
Sweden
OECD
Japan (2009)
Norway
Italy
Iceland
Ireland
Australia (2009)
Slovenia
Slovak Republic
Finland
Chile
Luxembourg (2009)
Israel (2009) 3
Hungary
Czech Republic
Korea
Poland
Estonia
Mexico
Turkey (2008)

0

Source: OECD, 2012.
Notes: Data are for 2010 for all countries except Spain, Japan, Australia, Luxembourg, and Israel, which are for 2009.
1. In the Netherlands, it is not possible to distinguish clearly the public and private share for the part of health expenditures related to investments.
2. Total expenditure excluding investments.
3. Information on data for Israel is available at http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/888932315602/.

Figure 2. Employment growth rate in the health and social sectors compared with all sectors in the economy,
1995–2009 or nearest year

Average annual growth rate (%)

9

n Health and social
n Total civilian 

6

3

0

Poland*

Hungary

Sweden*

Slovak Republic

Czech Republic

France

Denmark

Iceland

Finland

Italy

United States*

Germany

United Kingdom

Austria

Canada

Norway

Turkey*

OECD

Switzerland

Netherlands

Greece

Portugal

Belgium

Japan*

Australia

New Zealand

Spain

Mexico

Ireland

Luxembourg

Korea

–3

Source: OECD Health at a Glance, 2011.
* Data are the average of 1995–2009 or nearest year, with the following exceptions: Japan (2003–09), Turkey (2000–09), the United States (2003–08), Sweden (2003–08), and Poland
(2000–07).

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013 | 83

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

Figure 3: Online health IT job postings per month in the United States, 2007–12

n Health IT clinical user jobs 
n Health IT implementation and support jobs 
14,512

12,000
HITECH Act
February 2009

Number of health IT job postings per month

15,000

9,000

6,000

4,850

3,000

Jan 12

Nov 11

Jul 11

Sep 11

May 11

Jan 11

Mar 11

Nov 10

Jul 10

Sep 10

May 10

Jan 10

Mar 10

Nov 09

Jul 09

Sep 09

May 09

Jan 09

Mar 09

Nov 08

Jul 08

Sep 08

May 08

Jan 08

Mar 08

Nov 07

Jul 07

Sep 07

May 07

Jan 07

Mar 07

0

Source: Furukawa et al., 2012.
Note: Data are based on the three-month moving average.

personnel who can use newly available data to identify
opportunities to improve performance. The movement
toward accountable care and larger, integrated delivery
systems—a movement facilitated by a greater use of
ICTs—is spurring investment in data, analytics, and care
management platforms in many OECD countries.
In the United States, the Healthcare Information
Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act
(HITECH) provisions of the 2009 American Recovery and
Reinvestment Act (ARRA)—which promoted “meaningful
use” criteria and increased investments in health ICTs—
have set the conditions for employment growth in this
sector.9 The number of online health IT job postings per
month in the United States has increased by 199 percent
since the passage of HITECH, growing from 4,850 in
February 2009 to 14,512 health IT jobs in February 2012
(Figure 3). A study of actual employment found that more
than 50,000 health IT jobs have been created between
2007 and 2011.10 According to the US Bureau of Labor
Statistics, employment of medical records and health
information technicians is expected to increase by 21
percent from 2010 to 2020, faster than the average for all
other occupations.11
Efficiency gains and cost reduction
In addition to its impact on economic growth, the
introduction of ICTs could improve the value created in
the health sector.12 Specifically, ICT use is expected to
lead to efficiency gains and cost reduction. The most
frequently cited positive effects are generally attributed

84 | The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013

to a reduced utilization of unnecessary healthcare
services. More effective information sharing, such as the
rapid electronic delivery of hospital discharge reports
to general practitioners and the use of computerized
provider order entry (CPOE) systems, can reduce the use
of redundant laboratory and radiology tests—sometimes
by as much as 24 percent.13 Clinical decision support
features can influence prescribing behavior and can
save money by informing physicians of the comparative
effectiveness of alternative medical treatments. The
use of picture archiving and communications systems
(PACS) to acquire, store, retrieve, present, and distribute
digital medical images can lead to a lower total number
of x-rays, improved turnaround time, and some cost
savings. In British Columbia, where PACS have been
widely adopted, 87 percent of radiologists reported
improvements in their reporting and consultation
efficiency, and 93.6 percent indicated it had reduced
the time spent locating radiological examinations for
reviews.14
Other positive effects are expected to derive
from greater efficiency in administrative processes,
such as billing. A 2010 OECD report highlights the
substantial administrative cost savings that can be
found by introducing electronic claims processing
through the New England Healthcare Electronic Data
Interchange Network (NEHEN). Claims that cost US$5.00
to submit in labor costs per paper transaction were
processed electronically at 15 cents per transaction after
the introduction of NEHEN. In the Republic of Korea, all

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

Figure 4: Telehealth sessions in Canada, 2010

n Clinical
 Educational
n Administrative

Source: Based on Canada Health Infoway et al., 2011.

hospital bill requests are completed through an
electronic data interchange system implemented in
2003.15 Each year, the Health Insurance Review and
Assessment Service (HIRA) manages a flow of nearly
1.2 billion cases of hospital bill requests. In 2010, the
number of claims was 1.3 billion. All the data are
transferred and stored in HIRA’s medical information
system, which boasts the world’s largest capacity
and can store up to 210 terabytes of information. With
1,751 staff assigned to the review process, HIRA is able
to process over 40 percent of these bills electronically.
HIRA is planning to increase electronic review in the
next four years to 65 percent in order to maximize
efficiency and simplify the process.
The 2007 Commonwealth Fund report, Bending
the Curve,16 put the potential of aggregate systemwide savings of promoting health IT in the United
States at US$88 billion over 10 years. The authors
estimated that the cost reductions would result from
a lower rate of medical errors, more efficient use of
diagnostic testing, more effective drug utilization, and
decreased provider costs, among other improvements.
Additional savings would likely flow from better care
coordination among multiple providers—and improved
chronic care management—that would lead to both
a decrease in provider time utilization and better
health outcomes.

Improved healthcare delivery
Electronic health records (EHRs) can improve the quality
and responsiveness of care by enabling timely access
and better transmission of patient medical information
across the healthcare continuum. The effective use of
EHRs can also facilitate the evaluation of healthcare
interventions and their quality at the practice level, clinical
research and effective public health planning, and can
be used to provide the information needed for incentive
programs, such as pay-for-performance programs.
The potential of ICT applications to improve
healthcare delivery extends, however, well beyond
EHRs. Telehealth, for example, is increasingly viewed
as an important tool for optimizing continuity in care
and improving access to health services, particularly
in rural and remote areas where healthcare resources
and expertise are often scarce or even nonexistent.
The introduction of telehealth in Canada has enabled
assessments of patients in rural areas closer to home.
A recent study commissioned by Canada Health
Infoway showed that, as of the end of the 2009–10 fiscal
year, Canada had 5,710 telehealth systems in place in
at least 1,175 communities.17 Many of these systems
serviced the 21 percent of the Canadian population who
live in rural or remote areas. There were nearly 260,000
instances of telehealth use in Canada in 2010, of which
over 70 percent were for clinical consultations (Figure 4).
Mobile health applications increasingly provide
unique and unprecedented opportunities for empowering
patients and for meeting the growing needs of aging
populations. Advocates of patient-centered healthcare
have long argued that individuals should be able to
take responsibility for their own health. The argument
today applies widely to the management of chronic
diseases such as diabetes and obesity, where health
systems increasingly see their roles mainly as agents
of support. To the extent that individuals are the best
judges of their own welfare, the chances of the success
of any care or prevention program will depend on
patient engagement and meaningful co-ownership
and co-production of healthy behaviors. Health ICTs to
support self-management (such as personally controlled
health records, mobile health applications, and social
networks) have an important (and growing) role to play
in addressing the “information asymmetry” between
healthcare providers and consumers/patients, thus
allowing individuals to participate more actively in making
better-informed decisions about their own healthcare.
Reduced medical errors and improved patient safety
Under the right conditions, health ICTs can reduce
medical errors.18 Medication errors, in particular,
account for a significant number of additional hospital
admissions and consultations in primary care. Three
types of medical errors are common: errors caused by
forgetfulness or inattention on the part of both doctor

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013 | 85

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

Box 1: Impact of Computerized Physician Order
Entry (CPOE) on medication error prevention

Box 2: Chronic disease management toolkit in
British Columbia, Canada

The Brigham and Women’s Hospital, an academic tertiarycare hospital with approximately 700 beds in Boston,
conducted a study in 1999 of the impact of CPOE on
medication errors. All patients admitted to three medical
units were studied for seven- to ten-week periods in four
different years. The baseline period of the first year was
before implementation of CPOE, and the remaining three
periods occurred after the implementation of increasingly
sophisticated CPOE. The study found that:

In 2002, the Health Department of British Columbia
identified problems with the management of chronic
diseases. A study of 20,000 patients with diabetes between
1996 and 2001 showed that no more than 50 percent
of diabetes patients received all of the series of services
and tests recommended in clinical practice guidelines
(for example, having their blood sugar monitored through
HbA1c), no matter how many times they saw their doctor.
British Columbia developed a chronic disease
management (CDM) toolkit, a web-based information
system for diabetes and congestive heart failure. CDM
incorporates clinical practice guidelines into flow sheets
and includes other features that allow health professionals
to monitor care for chronic disease. Between 2002 and
2005—that is, within the first three years of implementation
of the CDM toolkit—the proportion of people with diabetes
who were receiving care that complied with the Canadian
Diabetes Association guidelines had more than doubled,
while the annual cost of diabetes care dropped over the
same period from an average of CAD 4,400 (Canadian
dollars) to CAD 3,966 per patient.

•	 Non-missed-dose medication error rate fell 81 percent,
from 142 per 1,000 patient days in the baseline period
to 26.6 per 1,000 patient days in the final period.
•	 Non-intercepted serious medication errors (those with
the potential to cause injury) fell 86 percent from the
baseline to period 3, the final period.
•	 Large differences were seen for all main types of
medication errors: dose errors, frequency errors, route
errors, substitution errors, and allergies.

Source: 1 Bates et al. 1999.
Sources: Krueger 2006; OECD 2010a.

and patient, errors of judgment or planning (rule-based
errors), and errors resulting from a lack of knowledge.
These errors can lead to adverse drug reactions, which
is one of the leading causes of death in the United
States (it is estimated to be between the 4th and the 6th
highest cause).19 ICTs can prevent medication errors by
making it easier for healthcare professionals to acquire
and share information. With electronic drug prescriptions
(e-prescribing), an expert system can be integrated to
check for adverse drug reactions (ADRs). Such a system
flags possible ADRs for patients taking multiple drugs.
It also generally contains patient-specific information on
the history of reactions—such as allergies to penicillin
or sulfa drugs—and provides a warning if these drugs
are being prescribed. Studies have shown that ICT
systems (including e-prescribing) reduce medication
errors and decrease adverse drug reactions.20 The
Cochrane Review has shown that electronic prescribing
improves quality (Box 1), but is equivocal on its
cost-effectiveness.21
Improved management of chronic diseases
The use of ICTs to improve the management of chronic
diseases has also gained significant attention. First,
ICTs can improve care coordination.22 The treatment of
complex chronic diseases requires input across many
different healthcare professions and multiple healthcare
settings, thereby creating a complex set of data that the
various people in the care process need to understand
and use. Sharing patient information across providers

86 | The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013

is essential to improve clinical outcomes and also to
prevent unnecessary duplications. EHRs can greatly
facilitate this task.
ICTs can also play an important role in increasing
compliance with clinical care guidelines or protocolbased care, which is particularly valuable in the
management of chronic diseases such as asthma,
diabetes, and heart failure. These are conditions with a
broad evidence base for how best to manage patients;
ICTs can help ensure that providers adhere to this
evidence. A study conducted by the Rand Corporation
in 1998–2000 in the United States showed that patients
received only 54.9 percent of recommended care out
of a set of 439 quality indicators defined for 30 acute
and chronic conditions. Quality-care indicators were
based on recommendations pertaining to screening,
diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up for each condition.
Although more than 75 percent of the recommended
care was provided for senile cataracts or breast cancer,
recommendations for care did not exceed 50 percent for
10 conditions. Only 22.8 percent of recommended care
was provided for hip fractures and only 10.5 percent
for alcohol dependency. In many but not all cases,
nonadherence with recommended care corresponded to
an underuse of healthcare services.23
Other studies have produced similar evidence
of nonadherence to recommended care in medical
practice. ICT systems are important for increasing the
uptake of preventive services such as screening tests for
diabetes and cancer (Box 2).

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

Figure 5: Use of electronic medical records by physicians in seven OECD countries, 2006 and 2009

100

n 2006
n 2009

80

Percent

60

40

20

0
Netherlands

New Zealand

United Kingdom

Australia

Germany

United States

Canada

Source: Schoen et al., 2009.
Notes: Survey question for 2006: “Do you currently use electronic patient medical records in your practice?” Survey question for 2009: “Do you use electronic patient medical records in your
practice (not including billing systems)?”

UNEVEN ICT ADOPTION ACROSS OECD
COUNTRIES
Making sure that ICTs are in place is only the first step
on a long and challenging journey toward taking full
advantage of these technologies. Indeed, it is fair to
say that, although the potential gains from greater ICT
use have been apparent for years, most countries still
face major implementation challenges and adoption has
remained remarkably uneven.
In 2009, the Commonwealth Fund reported that
only 46 percent of US doctors used electronic medical
records, compared with over 90 percent of doctors in
Australia and the United Kingdom (Figure 5).24 According
to a recent survey of European Union countries,25 on
average, only 6 percent of general practitioners reported
using e-prescribing, the exceptions being Denmark (97
percent), Sweden (81 percent), and the Netherlands (71
percent).
ACCELERATING ADOPTION AND THE
DEVELOPMENT OF BENEFITS FROM ICTs:
OVERCOMING THE CHALLENGES
Effective system-wide adoption of ICTs and the
exchange of medical information continues to be
logistically difficult for a variety of reasons. First, the
way healthcare is financed and organized can create
disincentives for providers (physicians, hospitals, others)
to pursue ICTs.26 In particular, fee-for-service payment
schemes do not create incentives to improve quality and
reduce redundant utilization—two of the primary benefits
of health ICTs. Providers therefore have little motivation
to go through a costly and disruptive implementation,

particularly when they can benefit more directly from
investing in biomedical technologies that will increase
their own revenue.
This challenge can be addressed by designing
payment systems that encourage the uptake of ICTs.
This has been a central aspect of many recent programs
to encourage the use of ICTs—examples include the
Practice Incentive Programme (PIP) in Australia and the
Quality Outcomes Framework (QOF) for primary care
in the United Kingdom. It is important to note that the
investments in ICTs are often part of a wider strategy
to improve primary care and hospital performance and
are linked with broader incentive regimes that pay for
better performance, as well as reforms—such as disease
management programs to improve chronic care. Often
pay-for-performance schemes begin with paying for
reporting that, in turn, provides financial incentives for
ICT adoption and providing data on the quality of care in
regular electronic form. Pay-for-reporting programs are
often a necessary prelude to a more full-scale pay-forperformance scheme.27
A second barrier to ICT adoption and effective
use is the broader issue of governance or stewardship.
Too often, projects start without the systems that are
needed to make progress—for instance, objectives need
to be set in terms of the health gains expected, and
appropriate workflow redesign, change management,
education, and training need to be introduced.28 This
lack of governance is also reflected in the absence
of commonly defined and consistently implemented
interoperability standards. Although healthcare
organizations have access to an ever-increasing number

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013 | 87

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

Table 1: Overview of main data collections reported by countries
Data collections	

Relevance	

National statistics surveys of ICT use 	

Feasibility	

Prevalence	

Comparability

Low	

Low	

Low	

High

Use of administrative data	

Medium	

High	

Low	

Low

Surveys of the population	

Medium	

Low	

Low	

Low

High	

Medium	

High	

Low

Standalone surveys of healthcare providers (businesses or personnel)	
Source: OECD, 2010a.

of ICT products, their systems often cannot speak to
each other, thus preventing the potential gains from
sharing information. Linkages and health information
exchange remain a serious problem. This market failure
is widely recognized and governments are taking varying
approaches to address it.
A third challenge relates to decisions on how
healthcare organizations handle their digital information
environment. This process profoundly affects the
uptake of health ICTs and the transition to an e-health
environment. The main challenge is integrating privacy
policy, security, and technological requirements for
access and the exchange of healthcare information.
This is an area where public perception issues must be
addressed. Keeping control over personal electronic
medical information and privacy assurance remain the
two top concerns for consumers. In particular, there is
concern that information could have detrimental effects
on employment, be used by health insurance companies
to deny coverage or increase premiums, and harm social
integration in the community.
Appropriate privacy protection should be incorporated
into the design of new ICT systems and policies from the
outset. However, such protection must be balanced with
the value from broad information sharing.
BETTER MEASUREMENTS TO REALIZE THE FULL
POTENTIAL OF HEALTH ICTs
The challenges to achieving widespread ICT adoption
and meaningfully leveraging these tools to improve
care are complex. Many countries are looking to learn
from others’ successes and failures to inform their own
policy development. This, however, requires a shared
understanding of ICT definitions as well as approach to
measuring adoption and impact.
In 2008, the OECD undertook a study of how
member countries were monitoring progress in ICT
implementation under their respective national e-health
strategies. The study showed a rising interest in
monitoring ICT adoption that had led to a proliferation of
surveys of varying quality and utility. These surveys were
sometimes conducted by official government statistical
agencies, and more often by academic entities and
private-sector collection agencies funded by government
health departments.29 Most surveys were conducted as
standalone surveys, on an ad hoc basis. In most cases,
they focused on ICT adoption in the primary care sector.

88 | The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013

The scope of the surveys and the methodologies
used varied significantly and included sample surveys of
medical practitioners and medical practices, inventories
of the use of ICTs for administrative/clinical purposes
in hospitals, self-administered surveys, censuses or
large samples of service providers in public and private
sectors, and population surveys.
Table 1 presents a simplified comparative analysis of
the different data sources in terms of (1) relevance—that
is, how well the data reflected the information priorities
of policymakers; (2) feasibility—that is, how easily data
can be gathered (cost and time to collect the data); (3)
prevalence—that is, whether the type of data collection
is frequently used or not; and (4) the extent of data
comparability
The OECD study also reviewed how countries
define ICTs in their surveys. With the exception of the
terms electronic health record (EHR) and electronic
medical record, there was very little or no overlap in the
lists provided by countries. Notably, none included any
general definition for either ICTs or healthcare. Even for
the term EHR, the definitions used in questionnaires
varied widely across countries (and often across surveys
within the same country).
The variety in the way countries defined and
measured ICTs inevitably made it difficult to compare
data within and across countries, or to link survey data
to other data sources. It was similarly challenging for
countries to compare practices and policies from which
they could learn.
Prompted by the 2008 study, OECD countries
agreed to undertake the following actions:
•	 establish a measurement framework for ICTs in
health systems,
•	 establish internationally agreed definitions of ICTs,
and
•	 develop a model survey for the measurement of the
availability and use of ICTs in the health sector.
The establishment of an international measurement
framework
Metrics and indicators have to be relevant to
policymakers. In the early 1990s, the OECD developed
a conceptual framework for the diffusion of ICTs. This
framework recognizes that measuring ICTs is a moving

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

Level of activity

Figure 6: The diffusion curve of ICTs

Time

Source: Adapted from Figure 1.2 in OECD, 2011b.

target. Countries follow an S-shaped curve that begins
with increasing interest in availability and access (Figure 6).
Once ICTs reach a critical stage of diffusion, policy interest
shifts to the purpose and level of ICT use (intensity) and to
its impact (and less on its access).30 There is likely to be
some demand for all three types of indicator, but priorities
will differ over time for different countries.
Measures need, therefore, to reflect this continuum,
starting from ICT availability and adoption, moving next
toward effective use and the extent of health information
exchange, and ending with measuring outcomes and
impact on health and the performance of the health
system.
The establishment of internationally agreed
definitions of ICTs
To avoid confusion over concepts and definitions, the
OECD began by proposing to define ICTs with reference
to the functions they offer. This approach was first
tested in the United States in a 2008 national survey of
physicians.31 An expert panel defined the key functions
that constitute a “basic” and “fully functional” EHR,
and then applied these definitions to the survey data to
develop nationally comparable estimates.
Development of a model survey
One of the key challenges in developing international
measures is finding an approach that can be applied to
all countries while taking into account the difference in
their pace of ICT deployment. Previous work to improve

international comparability of surveys that measure the
use of ICTs in households, businesses, and government
indicated that developing and implementing a model
survey composed of separate, self-contained modules
can ensure flexibility and adaptability to a rapidly
changing environment.32
The use of core modules (either as an add-on to
existing country surveys or as a standalone survey)
allows measurement on an internationally comparable
basis. Additional modules and new indicators can be
added to respond to evolving or country-specific policy
needs in this area.
The framework underlying the elaboration of the
model survey includes three main features that are of
general applicability. These features are reviewed below.
1.	 Linking indicators to user needs: The model
survey reflects common elements of national ICT
use that, in turn, are guided by national policy
priorities.
2.	 Flexibility and adaptability: The model survey
is a flexible tool composed of separate, selfcontained modules to ensure flexibility and
adaptability to a rapidly changing environment.
Although the use of core modules allows
measurement on an internationally comparable
basis, additional modules and new indicators
within existing modules can be added to respond
to evolving or country-specific policy needs in this
area.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013 | 89

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

3.	 Minimized burden: The model survey is
designed to reduce respondent burden and
enhance international comparability by being
short, by making use of filter questions, and using
a very limited number of quantitative questions.
MOVING FORWARD: THE OECD BENCHMARKING
INITIATIVE
Given the rapid pace of developments, a narrow window
of opportunity currently exists for countries to achieve
international agreement on indicators and terminology.
Recent work undertaken by the OECD in collaboration
with Harvard School of Public Health, the World Health
Organization, and the European Commission indicates
that a nucleus of a few indicators may represent a
reasonable starting point for the development of a
common understanding about what should be included
in the core module of a model survey on the adoption
and use of ICTs in the health sector. These indicators
are being organized into four broadly defined domains in
which the measurement of availability and use represent
today’s policy priorities for OECD countries:
1.	 Provider-centric electronic records systems:
These systems are used by healthcare
professionals to store and manage patient health
information and data, and include functionalities
that support the care delivery process. Examples
include electronic medical records, EHRs, and
electronic patient records.
2.	 Patient-centric electronic records systems:
These systems are typically used by patients
and their families to access and manage their
health information and organize their healthcare.
Examples are personal health records, patient
portals, and other patient-centric electronic
records.
3.	 Health information exchange: This area entails
the process of electronically transferring (or
aggregating and enabling access to) patient
health information and data across provider
organizations. Examples include the e-transfer of
patient data between ambulatory care providers
or the transmission of prescriptions from the
provider to a pharmacy.
4.	 Telehealth: This program encompasses the
broad set of technologies that support care
between patients and providers, or among
providers, who are not co-located. Examples
include video-mediated consultations between
physicians and patients, remote home monitoring
of patients, and teleradiology.

CONCLUSIONS
This review has summarized evidence suggesting
that the widespread adoption and use of health
ICTs can enable an array of benefits. Among these
are reducing medical errors, improving clinical care
through adherence to evidence-based guidelines, and
preventing duplication and inefficiency for complex care
pathways. These technologies hold substantial value
for the management of chronic diseases by enabling
better coordination of care as well as greater patient
involvement in their care.
Smooth, evidence-based implementation of health
ICTs is, however, still a distant prospect. There is much
work still to be done to gather relevant information
for improving the quality of existing measurements
as well as improving the linkages between policy and
measurement.
Understanding the barriers and incentives to ICT use
is critical to achieving more widespread penetration and
realizing the far-reaching economic and social benefits
to be reaped from their application. OECD countries
have much to gain by joining their efforts and sharing
the burden of developing measurements and testing
indicators in this sector. Risk, delay, and cost can be
minimized by learning from good international practices,
but this will be possible only if we have a common set
of indicators that are collected on a comparable basis.
The OECD work to develop internationally comparable
measures about ICT use in healthcare and the widebased support it has received is a reflection of the critical
need for such data today in both OECD and non-OECD
countries.
NOTES
	 1	 OECD 2010a, 2010b.
	 2	 Boston Consulting Group 2008.
	3	Lead markets are defined by the European Commission as
markets with high growth potential in which EU industry can
develop a global competitive advantage if it gets support from the
public sector; http://www.euractiv.com/innovation-enterprise/leadmarkets-gateway-growth-linksdossier-188437. See Commission of
the European Communities 2007.
	 4	 OECD 2010a.
	 5	 OECD 2010a.
	 6	 OECD 2012.
	 7	 OECD 2010a.
	 8	 OECD 2011a.
	 9	 Executive Office of the President, Council of Economic Advisers
2009.
	 10	 Furukawa 2012.
	 11	 US Bureau of Labor Statistics 2012.
	 12	 OECD 2010b.
	 13	 Chaudry et al. 2006.
	 14	 OECD 2010.
	 15	 HIRA 2010.

90 | The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.7: Better Measurements for Realizing the Full Potential of Health Information Technologies

	 16	 Schoen et al. 2007.
	 17	 Praxia/Gartner 2001.
	 18	 Scott et al. 2005; Chaudry et al. 2006; Shekelle and Goldzweig
2009; OECD 2010a.
	 19	 Committee on Quality of Health Care in America: Institute of
Medicine 2000; Lazarou, Pomeranz, and Corey 1998.
	 20	 Chaudry et al. 2006.
	 21	 Durieux et al. 2008.

Furukawa, M. F., D.Vibbert, and M. Swain. 2012. “HITECH and Health
IT Jobs: Evidence from Online Job Postings.” Office of the
National Coordinator for Health IT Data Brief #2. Washington, DC:
ONC. Available at http://www.irsc.edu/uploadedFiles/Programs/
HealthScience/HealthInformationTechnologyGrant/HITECHHealth-IT-Jobs.pdf.
Gerber, T., V. Olazabal, K. Brown, and A. Pablos-Mendez. 2010. “An
Agenda for Action on Global E-Health.” Health Affairs 29 (2):
235–38.
HIRA (Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service). 2010. Going
Together Toward Better Health, Better Life: HIRA Sustainability
Report. Korea: HIRA.

	 22	 OECD 2010b.
	 23	 McGlynn et al. 2003.

Krueger H. 2006. “The Relationship between Long-Term Adherence to
Recommended Clinical Procedures and Health Care Utilization
for Adults with Diagnosed Type 2 Diabetes.” PhD dissertation,
University of British Columbia, Department of Health Care and
Epidemiology.

	 24	 Schoen et al. 2009.
	 25	 EC 2008.
	 26	 Ash and Bates 2005.

OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development).
2005. Guide to Measuring the Information Sector. Paris: OECD
Publishing.

	 27	 OECD 2010b.
	 28	 OECD 2010a.

———. 2010a. “Improving Health Sector Efficiency: The Role of
Information and Communication Technologies.” OECD Health
Policy Studies. Paris: OECD Publishing.

	 29	 OECD 2010a.
	 30	 OECD 2005.
	 31	 DesRoches et al. 2008.

———. 2010b. “Value for Money in Health Spending.” OECD Health
Policy Studies. Paris: OECD Publishing.

	 32	 OECD 2011b.

———. 2011a. Health at a Glance 2011: OECD Indicators. Paris: OECD
Publishing.

REFERENCES
Ash, J. S. and D. W. Bates. 2005. “Factors and Forces Affecting EHR
System Adoption: Report of a 2004 ACMI Discussion.” Journal of
the American Medical Informatics Association 12 (1): 8–12.

———. 2011b. OECD Guide to Measuring the Information Society
2011. Paris: OECD Publishing. Available at http://dx.doi.
org/10.1787/10.1787/9789264113541-en.
———. 2012. OECD Health Data 2012. Paris: OECD Publishing.

Bates, D. W., J. M. Teich, J. Lee, D. Seger, G. J. Kuperman, N. Ma’Luf,
D. Boyle, and L. Leape. 1999. “The Impact of Computerized
Physician Order Entry on Medication Error Prevention.” Journal of
the American Medical Informatics Association 6 (4): 313–21.

Lazarou, J., B. Pomeranz, and P. N. Corey. 1998. “Incidence of Adverse
Drug Reactions in Hospitalized Patients: A Meta-Analysis of
Prospective Studies.” JAMA 279: 1200–05.

Boston Consulting Group. 2008. “Understanding the eHealth Market.”
Paper presented at “Making the eHealth Connection: Global
Partners, Local Solutions.” 2008, Bellagio, Italy.

McGlynn, E. A., S. M. Asch, J. Adams, J. Keesey, J. Hicks, A.
DeCristofaro, and E. A. Kerr. 2003. “The Quality of Health Care
Delivered to Adults in the United States.” New England Journal of
Medicine 348 (26): 2635–45.

Commission of the European Communities. 2007. Communication from
the Commission to the Council, the European Parliament, the
European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of
the Regions: A Lead Market Initiative for Europe. Brussels: COM
(2007) 860 (final 21.12 2007). Available at http://eur-lex.europa.eu/
LexUriServ/LexUriServ.do?uri=COM:2007:0860:FIN:en:PDF.
Committee on Quality of Health Care in America: Institute of Medicine.
2000. To Err Is Human: Building a Safer Health System.
Washington, DC: National Academy Press.
Chaudhry, B., J. Wang, S. Wu, M. Maglione, W. Mojica, E. Roth, S. C.
Morton, and P. G. Shekelle. 2006. “Systematic Review: Impact of
Health Information Technology on Quality, Efficiency and Costs of
Medical Care.” Annals of Internal Medicine 144 (10): 742–52.
DesRoches, C. M., E.G. Campbell, R. Sowmya, K. Donelan, T. G. Ferris,
A. Jha, R. Kaushal, D. E. Levy, S. Rosenbaum, A. E. Shields, and
D. Blumenthal. 2008. “Electronic Health Records in Ambulatory
Care: A National Survey of Physicians.” New England Journal of
Medicine 359 (1): 50–60.
Durieux, P., L. Trinquart, I. Colombet, J. Niès, R. T. Wlaton, A.
Rajeswaran, M. Rège-Walther, E. Harvey, and B. Burnand. 2012.
Computerized Advice on Drug Dosage to Improve Prescribing
Practice (Review): The Cochrane Collaboration. JohnWiley & Sons,
Ltd. Available at http://www.update-software.com/BCP/WileyPDF/
EN/CD002894.pdf.
EC (European Commission). 2008. Benchmarking ICT Use among
General Practitioners in Europe: Final Report. Brussels: European
Commission Information Society and Media Directorate General.

Praxia Information Intelligence and Gartner, Inc. 2011. Telehealth
Benefits and Adoption: Connecting People and Providers Across
Canada. A study commissioned by Canada Health Infoway.
Toronto, Canada, and Stamford, CT: Praxia Information Intelligence
and Gartner, Inc. Available at https://www2.infoway-inforoute.ca/
Documents/telehealth_report_2010_en.pdf.
Schoen, C., S. Guterman, A. Shih, J. Lau, S. Kasimow, A. Gauthier, and
K. Davis. 2007. Bending the Curve: Options for Achieving Savings
and Value in U.S. Health Spending. A report prepared for the
Commonwealth Fund Commission on High Performance Health
System. The Commonwealth Fund, December.
Schoen, C., R. Osborn, M. M. Doty, D. Squires, J. Peugh, and S.
Applebaum. 2009. “A Survey of Primary Care Physicians in Eleven
Countries, 2009: Perspectives on Care, Costs, and Experiences.”
Health Affairs 28 (6): w1171–w1183.
Scott, J. T., T. J. Rundall, T. M. Vogt, and J. Hsu. 2005. “Kaiser
Permanente’s Experience of Implementing an Electronic Medical
Record: A Qualitative Study.” BMJ 331: 1313–15.
Shekelle, P. and C. L. Goldzweig. 2009. Costs and Benefits of Health
Information Technology: An Updated Systematic Review. London:
The Health Foundation.
US Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics. Occupational
Outlook Handbook, 2012–13 Edition. http://bls.gov/ooh/home.htm,
accessed October 20, 2012.

Executive Office of the President, Council of Economic Advisers. 2009.
“Preparing the Workers of Today for the Jobs of Tomorrow.”
July. Available at http://www.whitehouse.gov/assets/documents/
Jobs_of_the_Future.pdf.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Innovation Technology Report 2013 | 91

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.8

Re-Establishing the
European Union’s
Competitiveness with the
Next Wave of Investment in
Telecommunications
SCOTT BEARDSLEY
LUIS ENRIQUEZ
WIM TORFS
FERRY GRIJPINK
STAGG NEWMAN
SERGIO SANDOVAL
MALIN STRANDELL-JANSSON

McKinsey & Company

The liberalization of telecommunication markets that
started in Europe in the 1990s allowed competitors into
Europe’s markets and brought European consumers
better service, lower prices, and a wealth of innovative
services. It also enabled economic growth and
established Europe as one of the world’s leaders in
the production of telecommunication equipment and
services. Liberalization unlocked a wave of investment
that served to increase the capacity of fixed and
mobile networks. This modernization added digital
communications capabilities to the existing copper
network infrastructure, but did not replace the “last mile
to the home.”
Today, telecommunication networks worldwide face
growing pressure to increase their capacity, driven by
an explosion in consumer demand for newly available
Internet services such as online or over-the-top video.
To meet this demand, telecommunication players in
the United States and Asia have already made massive
investments to upgrade network technologies, focusing
particularly on replacing the last mile of copper with fiber
networks, which are much better for carrying big data.
This has not happened in Europe, where the last mile still
needs to be upgraded. At the same time, revenue and
profitability growth in the European industry are falling.
Europe’s telecommunication industry now lags the rest of
the developed world in many measures, and the region
may soon fall behind the many developing countries that
are rapidly leapfrogging older technologies.
Low investment in telecommunications puts at risk
not only future consumer benefits but also the region’s
overall competitiveness. This chapter suggests that
restoring both benefits and competitiveness will depend
primarily on revising the European Union (EU) regulatory
framework to allow revenues, profits, and thus rates of
investment to recover. Although some Member States
and the European Union as a whole have taken some
encouraging policy steps, only bolder regulatory reform
can release the scale of modernizing investment in
telecommunications that Europe needs today if it is to reestablish its competiveness and enable future economic
growth and consumer benefits.
EARLY COMPETITION: BENEFITS FOR EU
TELECOMMUNICATION MARKETS AND
CONSUMERS
In 1998, the European Union introduced a regulatory
framework giving competing telecommunication
operators the right to access existing copper and mobile
networks at regulated wholesale rates. This policy
innovation launched 15 years of intensified competition,
producing substantial benefits for consumers:
•	 Lower prices. The price of a 10-minute fixed-tofixed national call fell from €2.11 in 1998 to €0.72
in 2010—a reduction of 66 percent in 12 years.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 93

1.8: Re-Establishing the European Union’s Competitiveness

Similarly, the price of a medium-usage basket of
mobile telecommunication services fell from €42.05
in 2002 to €19.99 in 2010, a decrease of 52 percent
in 8 years. Much lower prices mean that consumers
are enjoying many more minutes of voice services:
in the United Kingdom, the volume of outgoing voice
traffic grew by more than 900 percent between
1998 and 2009.
•	 Higher service levels. Competition forced
providers to try harder to retain their customers
by providing higher levels of service. Before 1998,
consumers had to wait several weeks to get a fixed
line installed at home, but they can now get one in a
matter of days. On the mobile service side, network
coverage has greatly improved, the percentage of
dropped calls has fallen, and customers can port
their number in one day for free instead of having to
wait several weeks and pay for the privilege.
•	 Innovative services. Competition also spurred
operators to develop innovative consumer services.
For example, mobile virtual network operators
in Europe have tailored services to the particular
needs of specific segments of the population. These
customized services include cheaper international
calls for migrant workers and web communities, ring
tones, icons, applications, and discounts specially
designed for youth markets. Alternative fixed
operators have similarly introduced innovations,
including cheap Internet protocol (IP) telephony
representing 24 percent of all outgoing fixed voice
minutes in the European Union in 2010, fiber Internet
access, and bundled offers.
INVESTMENT RELEASE: THE NEED FOR A NEW
REVENUE MODEL
The consumer benefits resulting from liberalization have
been delivered by an infrastructure reaching the limits
of its capability in terms of both its overall capacity and
the performance provided to the end-user. Increased
investment in both fixed and mobile will be required
to re-establish Europe’s competitiveness, thus both
satisfying consumer and business demand and reaping
the economic and productivity benefits that high-speed
broadband technologies can deliver.
However, the old funding model for financing
infrastructure will no longer work. In today’s world,
competition has reduced margins and operators are
afraid to invest because they cannot be sure of making
a return until the industry rules change. Stakeholders
across the European telecommunication industry
are debating the best way to reinvent the industry’s
revenue model to release the next wave of infrastructure
investment that Europe needs. Speed is critical because,

94 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

without more region-wide investment, Europe risks falling
behind other regions.
New consumer demand requires major infrastructure
investment
Fixed infrastructure investment in the early days of
market liberalization focused largely on upgrading
existing networks by adding fiber to the core, highspeed Internet-based switching, and digital electronics
(DSL modems)—all of which allowed faster data
communications. But the “last mile” connections
between the modern core and the home remained
copper based, ultimately limiting transmission speeds
and volumes. Meanwhile, mobile investments focused
primarily on introducing digital cellular technology to
improve voice services. This technology could carry
data at low speeds, as long as traffic grew modestly.
These “old” network configurations will not be enough
to support the next wave of services that customers are
demanding.
Worldwide, growing numbers of consumers want
constant, high-quality wireless Internet access, along
with higher traffic allowances and higher connection
speeds, so they can enjoy newly available Internet
services—such as over-the-top video—wherever they
are. Greater technical and service expectations from
customers have created an explosion in fixed and
mobile Internet data traffic. As Figure 1 shows, the
global volume of demand for fixed and mobile traffic
is expected to grow by 34 percent and 84 percent,
respectively, each year to 2015. In the United States,
which leads the world in deploying 4G long-term
evolution (LTE) mobile, today operators are experiencing
year-on-year growth in demand of more than 100
percent.
The telecommunication industry everywhere
needs to make huge investments in fixed and mobile
infrastructure to cope with this new situation. But
Europe’s investment need is particularly large. According
to our estimates, upgrading the fixed telecommunication
infrastructure in the EU15 countries to achieve fiberto-the-home (FTTH) household coverage of around
50 percent and vector-based very high bit-rate digital
subscriber line (VDSL) for all other households will
require €200 to €250 billion.1 Similarly, revamping
Europe’s mobile infrastructure to create a mobile network
using LTE technology and covering 95 percent of the
EU15 population will take another €50 to €70 billion.
Europe’s competitiveness lags in high-speed
networks
Other regions are getting ahead in deploying
next-generation high-speed fixed and mobile
telecommunication infrastructures. For instance, more
than 90 percent of homes in the United States are
already passed by cable operators using hybrid fiber

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.8: Re-Establishing the European Union’s Competitiveness

Figure 1: Over-the-top video: A driver of massive increase in Internet data traffic

1a: Fixed traffic
800

n  Total worldwide
n  European Union
582.1

600

Exabytes/month

34%

400
167.0
200

244.8
178.7

0

50.3

70.5

2011

2012

2015

1b: Mobile traffic
10

8

Exabytes/month

84%
6
6.9

4

2

0

0.6

2.1

1.3

0.2

2011

0.4

2012

2015

Sources: Cisco 2009–11 Visual Networking Index; McKinsey team analysis.
Notes: CAGR = Compound annual growth rate. (1a) Fixed traffic excludes traffic from managed IP telephony and business consumers. (1b) The trajectory line assumes that CAGR slows from its
current rate of more than 100 percent.

coaxial technologies. These can easily be upgraded to
offer 100 Mb/s downlink and 50 Mb/s uplink speeds
at much lower capital expenditure per subscriber than
the kind of vector-based VDSL or fiber infrastructure
currently under discussion in Europe. The United States
gained this advantage partly by giving operators a fixedterm holiday from regulations obliging them to allow
other operators to share their fiber links over the last mile

and thus creating “loop unbundling.” This encouraged
operators to invest in fiber links. For instance, Verizon
has now deployed FTTH to most of its subscribers.
Developed economies in Asia (Korea, Japan, Hong Kong
SAR, and Taiwan) have achieved, on average, more
than 40 percent FTTH coverage, partly because the
large number of people living in high-rise apartments
in densely populated Asian cities makes households

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 95

1.8: Re-Establishing the European Union’s Competitiveness

Figure 2: Trends in the telecommunication sector, 1992–2010

Total telecommunication revenues to GDP,
EU countries (100 = 1992)

500

  Telecommunication sector revenues
  Nominal GDP
+2% p.a.

400

+4% p.a.
+9% p.a.

300

+4% p.a.

200

100

0

1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009

Source: OECD, 2011.

easier to connect, but also because government support
lowers the cost of deploying FTTH to network owners.
Both regions are also rapidly strengthening their
mobile networks. In Q1 2012, around 64 percent of the
worldwide 4G LTE subscriptions were in North America,
33 percent were in Asia Pacific, and only 3 percent were
in Europe.
Technology leadership requires investment
Without further investments, Europe will continue to lose
technology leadership across the telecommunication
value chain to other regions. In the network infrastructure
and equipment industry, European-based companies
lost 21 percent of the total industry profit pool between
2006 and 2011 to companies from other regions. In
the handset market, European manufacturers lost 22
percent of their worldwide market share to Asian and
North American companies between 2007 and the first
half of 2012.
Today’s industry leaders on the services and
applications side are mostly from outside the European
Union. Most of the leading Internet companies—including
Google, Facebook, eBay, Yahoo, Baidu, and Tencent—
are based in either the United States or Asia; none of the
10 most visited Internet sites hails from Europe. Europe
also has a low level of innovation. Five times more
telecommunications-related patent applications are filed
in the United States than in Europe.
Not surprisingly, Europe’s growing infrastructure and
Internet service and application disadvantage is showing
up in comparative Internet usage. With an Internet

96 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

protocol (IP) traffic of 4,818 petabytes (PB) per month,
Europe lags the top traffic-generating regions of North
America and Asia, which produce 7,091 PB/month and
6,906 PB/month, respectively.
The telecommunication sector’s impact on the
economy at large
The low impact of Europe’s telecommunication sector
is evidenced by the fact that, for the first time since the
1990s, the industry in Europe is growing at a slower
pace than the region’s gross domestic product (GDP)
(Figure 2). This development is mirrored in the numbers
reported by the European Union on the value-added
by the entire ICT sector. In the United States, the valueadded at current prices increased by 8 percent between
2007 and 2010, whereas it decreased in the European
Union by 5 percent. In real terms, the value-added
increased by 18 percent in the United States and by
7 percent in the European Union. The decrease in the
European Union is the result of the price pressure on
both retail and wholesale levels.
This decline in value-added has taken a toll in
the number of full-time employees working in the
industry, which—for a sample of 10 European markets
(Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Ireland,
Luxembourg, Portugal, Spain, and Sweden)—has
dropped from 497,000 in 2000 to 357,000 in 2009.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.8: Re-Establishing the European Union’s Competitiveness

Figure 3: Operator revenue per subscriber, Europe vs. United States

3a: Fixed operators

3b: Mobile operators

–3% p.a.

–8% p.a.

51
46

US$/month per line

45

US$/month per subscriber

47

2008

2009

2010

2011

37
31

2008

2009

2008

2009

2010

2011

50

52

52
49

49

49

2009

2010

2011

US$/month per line

US$/month per subscriber

48

29

–2% p.a.

+3% p.a.

48

29

2010

2011

2008
n European Union  n  United States

Sources: Pyramid Research, 2011a, 2011b.

EUROPE’S OPERATOR REVENUES: MEETING THE
INVESTMENT CHALLENGE
Europe’s telecommunication sector needs a revitalizing
injection of investment. But relatively low growth and
profitability are hindering the region’s operators from
meeting this new investment challenge.
Revenues for both fixed and mobile operators in
Europe are falling. Average revenues from fixed-line

subscribers have dropped from US$51 a month per
subscriber in 2008 to US$46 a month in 2011, a fall of
3 percent a year. This represents an annual revenue
loss of around US$15 billion for the fixed industry since
2008.2 In the mobile sector, prices in Europe over the
same period have decreased at around 8 percent a year.
In contrast, US fixed-line prices increased by 3 percent

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 97

1.8: Re-Establishing the European Union’s Competitiveness

Figure 4: Annual capital expenditure, Western European operators (2005–09)

50

–4% p.a.
47

40

45

44

Euros, billion

40
30

20

10

0
2005

2007

2008

2009

Sources: OECD, 2007, 2009, 2011.
Notes: Western Europe comprises the EU15 (Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and the United
Kingdom) plus Norway and Switzerland. Capital expenditure is calculated over five years; data for 2009 are the latest reported by the OECD; data for 2006 are not reported by the OECD.

a year and mobile prices fell by only 2 percent a year
between 2008 and 2011 (Figure 3).
Lower revenues in recent years have affected the
European industry’s profitability. Between 2004 and
2011, the earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation,
and amortization (EBITDA) margins for the fixed market
contracted by 4 percent a year, representing €5 billion to
€7 billion a year of profits foregone.
Declining revenues and thinning EBITDA margins
mean the telecommunication industry in Europe
is investing less (Figure 4). From 2005 to 2009,
Europe invested, on average, US$141 per head in
telecommunications, while the United States and
Canada, in contrast, invested US$212 and US$230
per head, respectively, implying a telecommunications
investment gap between Europe and the United States
of around US$100 billion over those five years. Moreover,
McKinsey analysis shows that up to 80 percent of the
telecommunication investments in Europe’s 10 largest
telecommunication markets are made by the two or
three leading players in those markets.
Adding to their financial woes, large
telecommunication operators have started to pay
dividends to their shareholders reaching up to almost
half of their cash flow in an effort to keep stock prices
high despite all the indicators showing that the industry
is past its initial peak. This understandable reaction only
further diminishes the industry’s capacity to invest and
recover its dynamism.

98 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

REGULATING FOR INVESTMENT
Low investment in the telecommunication industry is
hurting Europe’s competiveness and denying consumer
benefits. Revenue growth and profitability in the
industry need to increase in order to unlock the scale
of investment required to restore them both. Bringing
revenue growth back to 4 percent a year could generate
€450–500 billion of additional revenue over the next 10
years, according to McKinsey estimates. This would, in
turn, generate an additional €150–200 billion of profit
at current EBITDA margins—enough to get started on
the essential investments in fixed and mobile networks
outlined above. Public funds might fill the rest of the
investment gap.
Restoring the industry’s revenues to unlock
investment requires a “New Deal”—that is, an industry
framework that will not only allow pricing flexibility and
promote consolidation among operators in both the fixed
and mobile markets, but will also give operators the
regulatory clarity needed to commit to larger, long-term
investments in the industry.
Several policy steps in the right direction have
been taken by EU Member States and by the European
Union region as a whole. For instance, to encourage the
construction of next-generation networks, the European
Union has allocated some funding, initiated a public
consultation on how to promote investment in these
networks, and indicated in its policy statement in May

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.8: Re-Establishing the European Union’s Competitiveness

2012 that a more investment-friendly wholesale pricing
regime is on its way (for more details, see Box 1).
INCENTIVES FOR INVESTMENT
As industry stakeholders shape the region-wide policy
framework that Europe needs to underpin the rollout of
next-generation fixed and mobile networks, McKinsey
offers four additional ideas that relate specifically to
market structure, pricing, wholesale access regulation,
and spectrum.
•	 Allow a reduction in the number of fixed and
mobile operators. As noted earlier, the fixed market
in Europe is characterized by a large number of
small players that compete on price; the few much
larger players make little or no investment. Europe’s
consumers might be better served by a fixed
industry with fewer, stronger players able to make
larger investments but sufficiently numerous to
ensure competition remains vibrant.
Europe’s mobile market also needs considerably
fewer operators. The EU15 has 56 mobile operators,
while the United States has only four to cover a
similar size territory and population. Authorities
should consider allowing operators in Europe to
consolidate so they can operate networks and use
resources such as spectrum in a more efficient
manner.
•	 Allow more pricing flexibility. Operators need
the flexibility to adjust prices to customers so they
reflect the bandwidth and volume of data traffic that
the customers require. With that flexibility, operators
could consider charging more to the customers who
are raising operating costs by demanding higher
speeds, more services, and greater capacity over
the Internet.
•	 Restrict wholesale access regulation to a
few basic services; for example, unused fiber
and ducts. Combined with allowing operators
“regulatory holidays” for a reasonable period on any
investments in new generation networks, restricting
in this way would give operators a better chance of
recouping their investments.
•	 Give operators more spectrum in which to
operate. Such an increase in spectrum could
contribute to this positive investment outcome. For
example, allocating the second wave of the digital
dividend spectrum (700 Mz) to wireless broadband
use; enabling operators to acquire enough low
and high frequency to give them the coverage and
capacity they need to meet both exploding data
demand and the “need for speed”; and ensuring

Box 1: Policy moves in the right direction
Some specific EU Member States and the European Union
as a whole have made some recent regulatory changes
that will help to unlock investment. These include:
•	 Supporting co-investment initiatives. Recently
several operators in countries—including the
Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, and Switzerland—have
started to consider co-investment initiatives in which
two or more operators would join forces to deploy
expensive fiber networks. The operators will share the
network, but will not be subject to wholesale access
obligations that allow other operators access to the
new network for a given period of time, usually the first
five years.
•	 Allowing geographic differentiation. A forerunner
in taking regional differences into account is the
Portuguese decision not to regulate wholesale access
in geographic areas where competition exists. In
rural areas, operators can get support from public
funding, which in turn will not be offered to companies
operating in competitive areas.
•	 Providing public funding. In Sweden, government
support for extensive municipal high-speed networks
has stimulated the construction of next-generation
fixed networks in rural areas, while mobile network
sharing agreements have lowered the capital required
to build new long-term evolution (LTE) infrastructure.
At a regional level, the European Commission also
recently created the Connecting Europe Facility to help
fund the rollout of next-generation networks and panEuropean digital services.
•	 Maintaining the current wholesale price for access
to “unbundled” copper connections. The European
Commission recently released guidelines indicating
that wholesale prices for access to unbundled copper
connections should be kept at their current levels so
network operators can earn enough to fund the rollout
of next-generation networks.
•	 Modernizing spectrum policy. The EU commission
recently launched its Radio Spectrum Policy Program,
which sets out general principles for managing
spectrum in the European Union and defines key
policy objectives. It has started to foster spectrum
trading among operators to make more efficient use of
available spectrum.

Source: McKinsey and Company.

that high-speed backhaul from cell sites is available
by allocating appropriate frequencies for backhaul
can all lift the investment value proposition.

A combination of the ideas mentioned above, along
with the current measures implemented by the European
Commission, could open the doors for the industry to

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 99

1.8: Re-Establishing the European Union’s Competitiveness

invest and revitalize the European economy and reestablish its competitiveness on the global scene.

Pyramid Research. 2011a. “Fixed Communications Forecast.” Products:
Growth Strategy Experts, September. Available at http://www.
pyramidresearch.com.

NOTES

———. 2011b. “Mobile Data Forecast.” Products: Growth Strategy
Experts, September. Available at www.pyramidresearch.com.

	 1	 EU15 countries are Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, and the United Kingdom.
	 2	 Incumbent operators of Austria, Belgium, France, Germany, the
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and
the United Kingdom.

REFERENCES
Cisco. 2009–11. Visual Networking Index. Available at http://www.cisco.
com/en/US/netsol/ns827/networking_solutions_sub_solution.html.
ComScore. 2012. Media Matrix subscription service, September 21.
Available at www.comscore.com.

Shah, N. 2012. “Vendor Share: Global Handset Market by Region:
Q2 2012.” Strategy Analytics. Available at http://www.
strategyanalytics.com/default.aspx?mod=reportabstractviewer
&a0=7647.
Telecompaper. 2012. ”France Telecom Preparing to Cut Dividend:
Report.” Telecompaper News: General, September 19. Available at
http://www.telecompaper.com/news/france-telecom-preparing-tocut-dividend-report.
Teligen Strategy Analytics. 2010. Report on Telecoms Price
Developments from 1998 to 2010. Report produced for the
European Commission Directorate General for Information Society.
Available at https://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/downloadscoreboard-reports.

European Commission. 1998. Communication from the Commission to
the Council, the European Parliament, the Economic and Social
Committee, and the Committee of the Regions. Fourth Report
on the Implementation of the Telecommunications Regulatory
Package. Available at http://ec.europa.eu/information_society/
policy/ecomm/doc/library/annualreports/4threport/4finalen.pdf.
———. 2011. Telecommunication Market and Regulatory Developments.
Available at http://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/sites/digitalagenda/files/Telecom_Horizontal_Chapter.pdf.
———. 2012a. “Connecting Europe Facility: Member States Reach an
Agreement on Building our Future Iinfrastructure.” Press Release,
June 7. Available at http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.
do?reference=IP/12/583.
———. 2012b. Digital Agenda for Europe: Scoreboard 2012.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union. Available
at https://ec.europa.eu/digital-agenda/sites/digital-agenda/files/
KKAH12001ENN-PDFWEB_1.pdf.
———. 2012c. “Fast and Ultra-Fast Internet.” In Digital Agenda for
Europe: Scoreboard 2012. Luxembourg: Publications Office of
the European Union. Chapter 2. Available at http://ec.europa.eu/
digital-agenda/sites/digital-agenda/files/KKAH12001ENN-chap3PDFWEB-3.pdf.
———. 2012d. “ICT R&D, Innovation and Growth.” In Digital Agenda for
Europe: Scoreboard 2012. Luxembourg: Publications Office of
the European Union. Chapter 3. Available at http://ec.europa.eu/
digital-agenda/sites/digital-agenda/files/KKAH12001ENN-chap4PDFWEB-4_0.pdf.
———. 2012e. Neelie Kroes, Vice-President of the European Commission
responsible for the Digital Agenda. “Enhancing the Broadband
Investment Environment.” Statement at Midday Briefing, Brussels,
July 12. Available at http://europa.eu/rapid/pressReleasesAction.
do?reference=SPEECH/12/552&format=HTML&aged=0&language
=en&guiLanguage=en.
European Union. 2012. Decision No. 43/2012/EU of the European
Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012, establishing
a multiannual radio spectrum policy programme Text with EEA
relevance. Available at http://eur-lex.europa.eu/LexUriServ/
LexUriServ.do?uri=CELEX:32012D0243:EN:NOT.
OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development).
2007. OECD Communications Outlook 2007. Available at http://
www.oecd.org/sti/ieconomy/oecdcommunicationsoutlook2007.
htm.
———. 2009. OECD Communications Outlook 2009. Available at http://
www.oecd.org/sti/ieconomy/oecdcommunicationsoutlook2009.
htm.
———. 2011. OECD Communications Outlook 2011. Paris:
OECD. Available at http://www.oecd.org/sti/broadband/
oecdcommunicationsoutlook2011.htm.

100 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 1.9

The Big Opportunity
for Inclusive Growth
MIKAEL HAGSTRÖM
IAN MANOCHA

SAS Institute Inc.

How to use, exploit, and contextualize big data, and how
to avoid its misuse, have become societal issues. These
issues matter to everyone because big data will play
a key role in overcoming the current economic inertia
and achieving the objective of inclusive growth—the
involvement of the broadest possible spectrum of people
in wealth creation.
Many doubt the wisdom of direct government
intervention and increased spending to create jobs.
Huge sovereign debt makes this approach problematic
in any case. Traditional policy levers to address structural
unemployment—such as retraining, increased labor
mobility, deregulation, and investment in research—are
having a diminished impact, while fiscal consolidation
and austerity measures appear to be slowing the return
to economic growth.
BIG DATA AS A DRIVER OF BUSINESS
OPPORTUNITIES
Huge untapped opportunities exist in big data, but
most commercial organizations in most sectors just
do not know how to handle, identify, and exploit these
opportunities. The management mindset must change.
This is also true of government, which can and
must play a central role at the head of a broad coalition
embracing business, academia, workers, and students
to unlock the potential of big data.
If we can recognize big data as the new asset class
that it is, the economic upswing could well match that
of the second industrial revolution brought about by
the mass production methods of Henry Ford and the
scientific management techniques of Frederick Winslow
Taylor.1
What is big data?
Big data is a popular term used to describe the
exponential growth in the volume, variety, and velocity of
data. At the same time that volumes of data are growing,
the data used by organizations large and small are
becoming increasingly variable, complex, and difficult to
manage using established data management tools. An
example is the highs and lows in data volumes created
by web traffic originating in multiple sources, both
external and internal to an organization. In 2011 alone,
1.8 zettabytes (or 1.8 trillion gigabytes) of data were
created2—the equivalent of every person on the planet
writing three tweets per minute for 1,210 years.
The term big data is therefore relative. It applies—
per the assessment of leading information technology
(IT) analyst the Gartner Group—when extreme
information management and processing issues “exceed
the capability of traditional information technology along
one or multiple dimensions to support the use of the
information assets.”3 This problem presents a huge
opportunity: Gartner estimates that, by 2015, big data
will directly create 4.4 million IT jobs globally, of which

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 101

1.9: The Big Opportunity for Inclusive Growth

Table 1: UK industry benefits of big data, £ million, 2011–17

Box 1: What does big data mean for the retail
industry?

(2011 prices)
Industry	

In its 2011 report, Big Data: The Next Frontier for
Innovation, Competition and Productivity, McKinsey
estimates that retailers who successfully harness big data
could increase their operating margins by more than 60
percent.1
Retail is one of the most time-sensitive industries.
Scott Zucker is Vice President of Business Services at
Family Dollar, a grocery mega-chain with 7,100 stores in 45
states. Family Dollar relies on high-performance analytics
to shrink data-processing windows from days to less than
an hour.
“Big data allows us to look at product, time and
location—our critical analytical levers—at a much lower
level than we ever did before,” Zucker says. “We might
have looked at class or subclass, at total company, and
then at month and sometimes at week. Now we’re looking
at SKU, store and day. As we start going down to that
level, the amount of information that we need to manage
and analyze goes up exponentially.”
Big data has helped make Family Dollar more agile.
“High-performance analytics lets you bring to market
ideas, services, products and marketing plans much faster
than you would ever think possible. No one ever does just
one iteration of an analysis, right? There’s always the first
iteration that goes to management, and then they want to
look at it another way. We go back and forth for multiple
iterations.
“Before high-performance analytics, that could take
weeks or even a month. Now you can get data back in
front of management the next day.”2
Notes
1	

McKinsey Global Institute 2011, p. 2.

2	

Bolen 2012a.

1.9 million will be in the United States. With the multiplier
effect, each of these additional IT jobs will create
employment for three more people outside the tech
industry in the United States, adding 6 million jobs to the
economy.4
Likewise, a recent Centre for Economics and
Business Research (CEBR) study has identified £216
billion worth of potential benefits to the United Kingdom
alone through gains in efficiency, innovation, and creation
driven by insights unlocked from big data (see Table 1).5
Moreover, according to research by Andrew McAfee
and Erik Brynjolfsson of MIT, companies that inject big
data and analytics into their operations show productivity
rates and profitability that are 5 percent to 6 percent
higher than those of their peers.6
This, however, could be just the tip of the iceberg.
The overall impact may be far more difficult to quantify
because, as was the case with Fordism and Taylorism,
big data could be a “game-changer” with long-term
effects that go way beyond improving the efficiency or
creativity of how we do things today—in other words, big

102 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Manufacturing	
Retail	
Other activities	
Professional services	
Central government	
Healthcare	
Telecommunications	
Transport and logistics	
Retail banking	
Energy and utilities	
Investment banking	
Insurance	
UK economy (total)	

2011	2012–17

5,965	45,252
3,406	32,478
3,446	
27,929
3,039	
27,649
2,517	
20,405
1,450	14,384
1,465	13,740
1,360	
12,417
708	
6,408
660	
5,430
554	
5,275
517	4,595
25,087	
215,964

Source: CBER, 2012.

data could change the very nature of economic activity
itself. Our work in the field with hundreds of SAS highperformance analytics clients indicates that big data will
stimulate entirely new ways of doing things.
To tap into this opportunity, business, government,
and society as a whole all need to adjust the way
they think and act. Without new thinking, the current
excitement surrounding big data could easily lead to
disillusionment. The hardware and software technology
needed to solve the volume aspect of the problem is
now in place. Today, you can buy a disk drive that can
store all the music in the world for just US$600.7 The
know-how exists as well. Companies that were “born
digital”—such as Amazon and Google—have built their
success on big data. We now need to extend their datadriven mindsets to more traditional businesses and the
public sector. If this happens, big data can get the global
economy back on track.
Boxes 1 through 4 provide some examples of the
impact big data can have in the retail, utilities, healthcare,
and public sectors.
Data-driven decisions
Dynamic pricing in the airlines industry is an excellent
example of the potential impact of big data on economic
activity. Dynamic pricing, based on the analysis of
millions of transactions to calculate the best current price
point, broadens the market and maximizes revenue.
Online shopping is another good example. Online
retailers not only track what customers buy, but also
what they look at and do not buy, their navigation paths
(clickstreams), their propensity to respond to promotions
and reviews, their own reviews and recommendations,
and so on. By capturing and analyzing these data, online
retailers can build models and algorithms to predict
what other products the individual customer will buy,
as well as the next big consumer trends. Moreover,
these algorithms constantly learn from every customer
interaction.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.9: The Big Opportunity for Inclusive Growth

`

Box 2: What does big data mean for utilities?

Box 3: What does big data mean for healthcare?

Most organizations never saw the era of big data coming.
But U.S. Gas & Electric, a major energy retailer in 12 US
states, has been watching closely.
“Our industry is on the cusp of smart meters,” says
Greg Taffet, CIO of U.S. Gas & Electric. Taffet is referring
to the digital devices that will deliver a steady stream of
real-time demand and usage information from customer
homes to utility providers. Electricity providers manually
read meters once a month, feed the data into complex
algorithms that take into account historical weather and
demand patterns, and make purchasing and pricing
decisions based on the results. “There is still a lot of
interpretation of the data involved,” says Taffet.
Within the next five to ten years, smart meters will
begin streaming usage data to both U.S. Gas & Electric
and its customers, significantly affecting the company’s
business model. Customers are likely to be more energyconscious with usage data at their disposal. U.S. Gas
& Electric will have an opportunity to offer new services
and may even begin expanding into ancillary businesses,
such as selling high-efficiency air conditioners or offering
insulation services.
“We think this has the opportunity to benefit both our
customers and our own business model,” says Taffet. He
estimates that smart meters will result in 1,000 times the
data coming through his systems. In preparation, Taffet is
investing heavily in infrastructure, especially storage and
processing capacity. “It is going to be a game changer,” he
says.1

In its 2011 report, Big Data: The Next Frontier for
Innovation, Competition and Productivity, McKinsey
estimates that the potential value from data in US
healthcare could be more than US$300 billion per year.1
“In healthcare, it’s a tidal wave of data. And our ability
to restructure and change our culture is almost entirely
informed by these data,” says Dr Jim LaBelle, corporate
vice president of quality, medical management, and
physician co-management at Scripps Health, the San
Diego–based company that includes five hospitals.
For several years, Dr LaBelle has been overseeing
an effort to change the culture at Scripps, from measuring
quality almost entirely by the performance of physicians
to measuring quality by the performance of processes,
systems, and teams. “We are looking at monitoring
variation around processes and driving out waste and
supporting better care by developing a management
system and partnership with the medical staff,” LaBelle
says.
To inform its approach to these changes, Scripps
collects and analyzes variation data. For example,
in anticipation of re-engineering its emergency room
procedures, Scripps looked at masses of data on wait
times (such as the door-to-doctor metric) and crossreferenced the information against the type of injury, tests
that were ordered, and how long it took to discharge
the patient. “Then we did extensive simulation of our
processes using real-life data, modeling how new and
different processes might work,” LaBelle says.
Scripps found that the triage process added an
unnecessary and wasteful step in getting patients from
the door to a doctor. It was adding time and cost to the
system, and not adding significant value. The company
eliminated it. “We were able to reduce door-to-doctor time,
add capacity to our emergency rooms, and improve the
quality of our service.”2

Note
1	

Economist Intelligence Unit 2011, p. 22.

Other examples of how we have seen big data
analytics boosting our clients’ businesses include the
ability to:

Notes
1	

McKinsey Global Institute 2011, p. 2.

2	

Economist Intelligence Unit 2011, p. 11.

•	 recalculate entire risk portfolios in minutes
and understand future possibilities to mitigate risk;8
•	 analyze millions of SKUs to determine optimal prices
that maximize profit and clear inventory;9
•	 better understand customers to optimize product
assortments;10
•	 send tailored recommendations to mobile devices
at just the right time, while customers are in the right
location to take advantage of offers;11
•	 analyze data from social media to detect new
market trends and changes in demand;12 and
•	 use data mining to detect fraudulent behavior.13
In each case, success is determined by how
effectively the organization (1) harnesses data and uses
them creatively, (2) builds models that enable it to predict
better and to optimize outcomes, and (3) transforms itself
so that it is more agile in acting on insight. It is this last

requirement that poses the greatest challenge and it is
here that government can play an active supporting role,
as discussed below.
GOVERNMENT BIG DATA INITIATIVES TO TACKLE
UNEMPLOYMENT
Government is one of the largest users of data. It must
now take the lead both as an exemplar and as an
enabler of big data best practices. McKinsey estimates
that the governments of developed European Union
countries could save more than €100 billion (US$149
billion) in operational efficiency improvements alone by
using big data.14 Our work with government agencies
demonstrates that far more can be saved by using big
data to reduce fraud and tax evasion.
Big data can also help government to make the
leap from “fail and fix” to “predict to prevent.” A recent

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 103

1.9: The Big Opportunity for Inclusive Growth

Figure 1: Social media and unemployment project workflow

Public data:
Blogs, forums, news
United States and Ireland

Unemployment-related
conversations

Sentiments

Topics

Official
unemployment statistics

Source: Global Pulse and SAS Institute Inc. 2011, p. 3.
Note: Black boxes: Online job-related conversations from blogs, forums, and news were automatically retrieved. Gray boxes: Each document was assigned a quantitative mood score based on the
tone or mood of the conversations—for example, happiness, depression, anxiety—it contained. The number of unemployment-related documents that also dealt with other topics, such as
housing and transportation, was quantified and categorized into pre-defined lists of document topics representing potential coping mechanisms. White box: These measures—aggregated mood
scores and the volume of conversations around different topics—were compared with official unemployment statistics over time in search of interesting correlations.

study conducted by Global Pulse, in partnership with
SAS Institute, using linguistic analytics, demonstrated
how government agencies could harness big data
from social media to help formulate policies to address
unemployment.15 The primary goal of the research was
to compare the qualitative information offered by social
media with unemployment figures. We first selected
related conversations from blogs, forums, and news from
the United States and Ireland between June 2009 and
June 2011.
Figure 1 illustrates the project workflow of the study.
For all documents (blog posts, tweets, etc. in the
public domain), we assigned a quantitative score for
mood state,16 based on the tone of the conversations.
We also quantified unemployment-related documents
that dealt with other topics, such as housing and
transportation, in order to gain insight into populations’
coping mechanisms.
We analyzed these data in two primary ways. First,
we correlated mood scores with the unemployment
rate to discover leading indicators that forecast rises
and falls in the unemployment rate. For example, the
social media conversations in Ireland categorized as
showing a confused mood preceded variations in the
unemployment rate with a lead time of three months.17
Second, the volume of documents related to coping

104 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

mechanisms also showed a significant relationship with
the unemployment rate, which may give insight into the
reactions that can be expected from a population dealing
with unemployment. For example, the conversations in
the United States around the loss of housing increased
two months after unemployment spikes.
Overall, in this initial research, Global Pulse
underlined the potential of online conversations to
complement official statistics by providing a qualitative
picture demonstrating how people are feeling and coping
with respect to their employment status.
The conversations that provided insight ranged
from the banal, such as “my beer budget will obviously
be cut” to the heartbreaking, “a few more months and
we’ll have to seriously consider a bankruptcy” and “sorry
water bill, this month I will have to pay the electric, next
month the student loan.” Taken together, and tagged
by mood score, the conversations revealed strong
correlations with the unemployment rate, providing
leading indicators that unemployment will rise or fall.
Thus, the study showed how linguistic analytics
could provide government with the predict-to-prevent
capabilities needed to take action before a problem
manifests itself. At the level of the individual, this could
mean that retraining is made available months before a
job loss is experienced, thereby reducing dependence

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.9: The Big Opportunity for Inclusive Growth

on benefits. The high market penetration of social media
among young people makes this especially relevant for
youth unemployment programs.
While this was a proof-of-concept project, it
shows the potential of using social data to influence
policy. Building larger databases over time and using
richer geographical information related to the inputs
would allow more detailed analysis and more nuanced
approaches at the regional level.
PROPOSALS FOR LABOR MARKET
TRANSFORMATION
In the first two sections of this chapter, we discussed
how big data can impact the economy in the private and
public sectors, both by spurring innovation and growth
and by giving government deeper insight into the needs
of citizens. For big data to influence the economy further,
we suggest several measures that are needed to create
the right labor market conditions for big data–driven
growth.

`

Box 4: The public sector can use big data to
match skills to jobs
Singapore’s Ministry of Manpower has developed an SAS
analytics solution that draws information from a variety of
departmental sources to support its operations planning,
case management, and the early detection of potential
workplace and employment issues. This has enabled
it to put resources in place in a timely manner to give
employers greater visibility into skills availability, to identify
and close skills gaps, and to offer a more targeted service
to both employees and employers.1
Analytics can also be applied to anticipate
employment needs effectively within a public-sector
organization. Recruitment has traditionally been very slow
in the US public sector (it currently takes an average of 105
days to fill a post at a federal agency).2 However, the state
of North Carolina is using an SAS analytics application
called NC WORKS that enables the state government to
proactively manage and forecast talent needs. It provides
the workforce with the intelligence needed to respond to
the changing workforce demographics, including an aging
and retiring staff.3
Notes

Needed now: A big data skills-for-growth program
Talent shortage is the greatest obstacle to realizing value
from big data. Based on current trends, by 2020 the
world will generate 50 times the amount of information
and 75 times the number of “information containers” it
uses now, while IT staff to manage it will grow less than
1.5 times.18
Today’s youth is digitally literate to a degree older
generations could never have imagined, yet the world
is not producing anywhere near enough data scientists.
Investigating big data to answer a business question
typically involves a “mashup” of several analytical efforts,
and this requires a new breed of professional.19 We
need data scientists who are also domain specialists
in all sectors, from chief digital officer down to entrylevel workers. Our current educational institutions are
behind the curve. There are few university programs that
address big data analytics, let alone that provide degrees
in data science, and there are virtually no schemes to
retrain people in big data skills. We need more—far
more—workers who are trained in using information to
identify and execute business opportunities.
Putting the tools and methods of analytics into
the hands of the workforce would industrialize the
information-based service economy, much as Frederick
Winslow Taylor’s and Henry Ford’s innovations
industrialized factory management. In Singapore, the
Infocomm Development Agency (IDA) has established
a High-Performance Analytics Centre of Innovation, the
first of its kind in Asia. Its role is to train professionals
in data management and analytics, and to generate
intellectual property through co-development with
institutes of higher learning.

1	

SAS Institute Inc. 2012b.

2	

US OPM 2012.

3	

SAS Institute Inc. 2011.

Big data to match people to jobs more effectively
Despite high levels of unemployment, companies
continue to experience significant skills shortages.
In a recent survey of European decision makers, 43
percent reported that they are currently facing at least a
moderate shortage of required skills.20 Often, the skills
and location of unemployed workers do not correspond
to the skills and location of positions available. Big data
can help predict these gaps and mismatches before
they become critical, and can put plans and programs in
place to address those gaps.
Government requires better analytics to profile
its data about the unemployed to identify specific
characteristics, plan appropriate interventions, and then
track the impact of measures taken over time. Better
analytics can simplify job searches, automatically provide
jobseekers with options, identify the capabilities they
lack to qualify for certain jobs, and direct them to the
necessary programs for retraining.
If “industrialized,” such an approach can enable
unemployment agencies to be more proactive in
matching people to jobs and jobs to people. From a big
data perspective, the process is not that different from
what many large companies are already doing to identify
trends and match future supply and demand.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 105

1.9: The Big Opportunity for Inclusive Growth

Information and communication technologies to
match jobs to people more effectively
The old Catch 22 is at work: workers cannot acquire
skills and experience because employers only want
workers with skills and experience. Deskilling has been
a feature of employment booms and may provide part
of the answer.21 The second industrial revolution was
possible because companies such as Ford introduced
production techniques that overcame the shortage of
skilled engineers—opening up employment opportunities
for unskilled and semiskilled workers. More recently, the
media industry—once dependent on skilled typesetters,
graphic artists, and other craft workers—has entered
a new age largely as a result of deskilling, facilitated by
digital technology.
The public sector can take the lead here.
Policymakers should ask how they can redesign
workplaces to reduce reliance on scarce managerial
talent. Deskilling in public-sector organizations is likely
to mean less top-heavy bureaucracy, flatter hierarchies,
and greater workplace democracy, supported by big
data to provide objective insight.
There is no reason why such an approach could not
succeed in the private-sector corporate environment as
well. In fact, this approach is highly likely to result in more
agile and competitive enterprises as decisions are made
more swiftly, but based on scientific analytics rather than
executive fiat or company politics.
Restructure labor markets to optimize skills creation
In the era of big data, how do we optimize the labor
value creation and delivery chain for a world where
business must adapt and transform itself more and more
rapidly? We must question our very perception of what
constitutes a “job” and what constitutes a “profession.”
In an information-led economy, knowledge process
outsourcing organizations (KPOs) will assume a more
prominent position in the employment landscape. KPOs
provide sources of technical talent, with the knowledge
workers often located remotely from the customer.
Although the KPO model has been most closely
associated with information and communication
technology companies, it can be extended to other
areas such as legal processes and research, intellectual
property and patent-related services, engineering
services, web development applications, CAD/CAM
applications, clinical research, publishing, and marketing
services. The advantage of KPOs is their flexibility.
They do away with the traditional recruitment process,
overcome barriers to labor mobility, and are low risk for
the employer while offering high rewards and variety for
the employee. The fast-changing nature of the digital
economy means there will be increasing demand for
people who want new challenges rather than routine.
KPOs provide domain knowledge (such as expertise
in IT, legal, marketing, or accountancy) to organizations

106 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

that do not want to move such knowledge in-house,
enabling these organizations to focus on corecompetency areas that generate business growth. For
example, KPOs might enable an electronics company
to focus more on its core competence—developing
innovative electronic circuitry—instead of employing
people who file patents or run internal IT systems.
CONCLUSION
As we have shown here, forward-thinking governments
in economies from Singapore to Ireland are already
taking positive steps toward inclusive growth through
the creative use of big data and analytics. Others must
follow.
The opportunity is very easy to grasp. Big data can
deliver insight. With the application of high-performance
analytics to big data, public and private organizations
can get the intelligence they need to support decisions
in hours or even minutes instead of days and weeks. In
simple terms, this will enable businesses to move away
from the traditional intuitive management approach,
which we would characterize as “fail and fix” or “fail fast”
to one we would characterize as “predict to prevent” and
“predict to perfect.”
Fail and fix, though always wasteful, can work
in boom years when there is margin for error. It does
not work in the “new normal” of economic inertia. The
fear of failure is too great. The crisis of 2008 should
have spelled the end of the fail-and-fix approach.
SAS High-Performance Analytics, which uses parallel
processing and advanced statistical techniques, can
reveal previously unseen patterns and relationships
in big data. It can enable governments and financial
institutions and regulators to avoid the meltdowns that
have characterized the financial landscape in recent
years—and it can support business creation, business
efficiency, and business innovation. For that to happen,
mindsets must change to put more trust in analytics and
the people who can interpret data.
NOTES
	 1	 Henry Ford (1863–1947) was the American industrialist and
sponsor of the development of the assembly line technique of
mass production. Fordism is a concept used in various social
theories and management studies about mass production and
related socioeconomic phenomena. The term was introduced by
Antonio Gramsci in 1934 in his essay “Americanism and Fordism,”
in his Prison Notebooks. Frederick Winslow Taylor (1856–1915)
was an American mechanical engineer who sought to improve
industrial efficiency. Taylorism is a theory of management that
analyzes and synthesizes workflows. Its main objective was
improving economic efficiency, especially labor productivity.
	 2	 Gantz and Reinsel 2011.
	 3	 Gartner Group IT Glossary. “Big Data” definition: http://www.
gartner.com/it-glossary/big-data/.
	 4	 Thibodeau 2012.
	 5	 CEBR 2012.
	 6	 McAfee and Brynjolfsson 2012.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1.9: The Big Opportunity for Inclusive Growth

	 7	 McKinsey Global Institute 2011, p. 2.

Gramsci, A. 1934 (2011). “Americanism and Fordism.” Notebook 22,
Antonia Gramsci’s Prison Notebooks 1920–1935. New York:
Columbia University Press.

	 8	 SAS 2010.
	 9	 Bolen 2012a.

McAfee, A. and E. Brynjolfsson. 2012. “Big Data: The Management
Revolution.” Harvard Business Review, October 2012. Available at
http://hbr.org/2012/10/big-data-the-management-revolution/ar/1.

	 10	 Bolen 2012b.
	 11	 Bolen 2012c.

McKinsey Global Institute. 2011. Big Data: The Next Frontier for
Innovation, Competition and Productivity, May. Available at http://
www.mckinsey.com/insights/mgi/research/technology_and_
innovation/big_data_the_next_frontier_for_innovation.

	 12	 Stodder 2012.
	 13	 SAS Institute Inc. 2012a.
	 14	 McKinsey Global Institute 2011, p. 2
	 15	 Global Pulse and SAS Institute Inc. 2011.
	16	 Mood State is a method by which SAS measures the overall mood
and specific moods of a data corpus. Unlike sentiment analysis,
which is a simple positive/negative/neutral decision, mood state
analysis offers a more refined measure by which to judge social
media. Documents are scored to provide mood scores for Anxiety,
Confidence, Hostility, Confusion, Energy, and Happiness.

SAS Institute Inc. 2010. “Positive Creativity Solves Complex Risk Puzzle:
United Overseas Bank CRO Discusses Interplay between Risk
Classes and Developing Better Risk Controls for Banking in NearReal Time.” Available at http://www.sas.com/success/uob_risk.
html.
———. 2011. “NC Office of State Personnel Uses SAS to Support
Workforce Planning.” SAS Institute. Available at http://www.sas.
com/success/ncosp.html.
———. 2012a. Intelligence Quarterly: Fraud Prevention. Third quarter
2012. This publication cites many examples of how organizations
are using data to detect and prevent fraud. Available at http://
www.sas.com/news/intelligence_quarterly/q312.pdf.

	 17	 Global Pulse and SAS Institute Inc. 2011, p. 11.
	 18	 Gantz and Reinsel 2011.
	 19	 Davenport and Patil 2012.
	 20	 Accenture 2012, p. 12.
	21	 Deskilling is the process by which skilled labor is eliminated
within an industry or economy by the introduction of technologies
operated by semiskilled or unskilled workers. This lowers the
barriers to entry into the labor market.

REFERENCES
Accenture. 2012. Turning the Tide: How Europe Can Rebuild Skills and
Generate Growth. Accenture, with the Federation of Enterprises
in Belgium. April. Available at http://www.accenture.com/us-en/
Pages/insight-turning-tide-how-europe-rebuild-skills-generategrowth.aspx.
Bolen, A. 2012a. “Will Big Data and High-Performance Analytics
Flatten the World?” SAS Voices, April 11. Available at http://blogs.
sas.com/content/sascom/2012/04/11/will-big-data-and-highperformance-analytics-flatten-the-world/.

———. 2012b. “SAS helps Singapore Ministry of Manpower Improve Its
Planning and Operations.” Customer Success. Available at http://
www.sas.com/success/mom.html.
Stodder, D. 2012. “Customer Analytics in the Age of Social Media.”
The Knowledge Exchange, October 3. Available at http://www.
sas.com/knowledge-exchange/customer-intelligence/featured/
customer-analytics-in-the-age-of-social-media/index.html.
Thibodeau, P. 2012. “Big Data to Create 1.9M IT Jobs in U.S. by 2015,
says Gartner.” Computerworld, October 22. Available at http://
www.computerworld.com/s/article/9232721/Big_data_to_
create_1.9M_IT_jobs_in_U.S._by_2015_says_Gartner.
US OPM (United States Office of Personnel Management). 2012. United
States Office of Personnel Management Annual Performance
Report, Fiscal Year 2011. February. Available at http://www.opm.
gov/gpra/opmgpra/performance_report2011.pdf.

———. 2012b. “Optimizing Assortments with Big Data and HighPerformance Analytics.” SAS Voices, March 16. Available at
http://blogs.sas.com/content/sascom/2012/03/16/optimizingassortments-with-big-data-and-high-performance-analytics/.
———. 2012c. “High-Performance Analytics for Big Customer Data.”
SAS Voices, February 22. Available at http://blogs.sas.com/
content/sascom/2012/02/22/high-performance-analytics-for-bigcustomer-data/.
CEBR (Centre for Economics and Business Research). 2012. Data
Equity: Unlocking the Value of Big Data. London: Centre for
Economics and Business Research. Available at http://www.sas.
com/offices/europe/uk/downloads/data-equity-cebr.pdf.
Davenport, T. H. and D. J. Patil. 2012. “Data Scientist: The Sexiest Job
of the 21st Century.” Harvard Business Review, October 2012.
Available at http://hbr.org/2012/10/data-scientist-the-sexiest-jobof-the-21st-century/ar/1.
Economist Intelligence Unit. 2011. 2011. “Big Data: Harnessing a GameChanging Asset.” September. Available at http://www.sas.com/
resources/asset/105404_0911.pdf.
Gantz, J. and D. Reinsel. 2011. “Extracting Value from Chaos.” IDC
IVIEW, June. Available at http://www.emc.com/collateral/analystreports/idc-extracting-value-from-chaos-ar.pdf.
Gartner Group. IT Glossary. “Big Data” definition. Available at http://
www.gartner.com/it-glossary/big-data.
Global Pulse and SAS Institute Inc. 2011.“Using Social Media and
Online Conversations to Add Depth to Unemployment Statistics.”
Methodological White Paper, December 8. Available at http://
www.unglobalpulse.org/projects/can-social-media-mining-adddepth-unemployment-statistics.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 107

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Part 2
Case Studies of
Leveraging ICTs for
Competitiveness
and Well-Being

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 2.1

Colombia’s Digital Agenda:
Successes and the
Challenges Ahead
DIEGO MOLANO VEGA

Ministry of Information and Communication
Technologies of Colombia

In recent years, the information and communication
technologies (ICT) sector has come to play a vital role
and has gained in significance in the area of public policy
in Colombia. The Colombian government considers the
ICT sector to be a priority, acknowledging its importance
and its potential impact on the national economy. It
has taken critical steps toward increasing the country’s
interconnectedness and fully developing a national digital
ecosystem, which it recognizes as having great potential
for generating wealth and socioeconomic development.
International studies suggest that a direct correlation
exists between Internet penetration levels, ICT adoption,
the generation of employment, and the reduction of
poverty.1
A growing ICT industry creates new jobs in multiple
industries and sectors. These jobs—unlike jobs in the
primary and secondary sectors of the economy, such
as agriculture and manufacturing—are focused on new
activities of the third sector of the economy: services.
ICT jobs are more competitive internationally and often
have better salaries than jobs in the primary sectors.
Furthermore, there is evidence that each job created
by the ICT industry is a catalyst for the generation of
employment in other sectors. In the Latin American
context, the multiplier effect of employment in the ICT
sector is estimated to be 2.42—that is, each job in the
ICT industry generates more than 2 new jobs in other
areas of the economy.2
At the same time, the development of the ICT
industry increases the competitiveness of countries by
allowing them to take advantage of opportunities in a
market that is increasingly interconnected and that also
facilitates the generation of local and global business
opportunities.
A strong, more developed ICT industry makes a
country more globally competitive, as demonstrated
by the correlation between the Networked Readiness
Index, which measures a country’s preparedness to
leverage ICTs, and the Global Competitiveness Index,
which measures a country’s overall capacity to boost
competitiveness.3 It is clear that ICTs have great
development potential, and also that those countries that
are best prepared to take advantage of ICTs are those
that obtain the most benefit from them.
In recent years, Colombia has made important
progress: it has improved its ranking in the Networked
Readiness Index more quickly than the global average,
and it has established itself as the leader in Latin
America in terms of e-government tools.
BARRIERS TO WIDESPREAD INTERNET USE IN
COLOMBIA
Colombia has been addressing multiple barriers to
achieve widespread Internet use. Obstacles arise in all
parts of the digital ecosystem: infrastructure, services,
applications, and users.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 111

2.1: Colombia’s Digital Agenda

Since President Juan Manuel Santos took office
in 2010, four main obstacles to the goal of achieving
widespread Internet use in the country have been
identified:
1.

2.

3.

4.

The Internet is not perceived as useful. Surveys
have revealed that one of the reasons why the
general public and micro-enterprises do not use
the Internet is that they do not see it as useful or
necessary.4 The lack of specialized and useful
applications and content for the general public
and micro-enterprises would explain this view.
The costs of installing the infrastructure are too
high. In 2010, just 200 municipalities out of the
country’s 1,102 had access to the fiber-optic
network. The use of communication networks has
been restricted by geographical features and the
scattered distribution of urban areas, as well as
administrative problems that hinder the use of the
infrastructure that is already present.
The resources available to the state for investing
in infrastructure are limited. This adds to the
previous problem.
The purchasing power of Colombians is limited.
The costs of hardware and subscribing to the
service to get Internet access are relatively high
for the majority of the population, and many
citizens simply do not have the opportunity, from
an economic perspective, to use the Internet.

The lack of relevant content in local languages and
the similar lack of interfaces that are accessible to the
general public and that give people important information
for their everyday lives and businesses largely explain
why they perceive the Internet to be of limited use.
Penetration is low because there is little demand in light
of the perceived limited usefulness of the service.
On the other hand, although it has been shown
that Colombia has relative advantages in terms of
costs, infrastructure, business environment, and risk,
the sector’s development is limited by a lack of human
resources and its industry’s lack of experience.
AN AMBITIOUS PLAN TO WIDELY EXPAND THE USE
OF THE INTERNET IN COLOMBIA
In order to grow the ICT sector in Colombia, the Plan
Vive Digital—the most ambitious public policy strategy
ever implemented by the Colombian government for
the ICT sector—was established. This plan, to be
implemented during the presidential period 2010–14,
aims to give the country a technological leap through
wide dissemination of the Internet and the development
of its national digital ecosystem (its users, infrastructure,
applications, and services). The plan responds to the
challenge identified by the government of achieving

112 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

democratic prosperity through the appropriation and
use of technology. Vive Digital is betting on making the
Internet ubiquitous. As seen above, a direct correlation
between Internet penetration and the adoption of ICTs
with employment generation and poverty reduction has
been demonstrated. Vive Digital uses this correlation
to yield an impact with significant social and economic
benefits.
Plan Vive Digital: Strategy and objectives
To achieve widespread Internet use, Plan Vive Digital has
established three specific objectives for 2014:
1.

Triple the number of municipalities connected to
the information highway. The aim is to extend the
infrastructure to connect 1,053 of the country’s
municipalities to the national fiber-optic network.

2.

Connect 50 percent of micro-enterprises and
small- and medium-sized enterprises (known
as MIPYMEs) and 50 percent of homes to the
Internet.

3.

Increase the number of Internet connections
fourfold. By 2014, we want to reach 8.8 million
Internet connections.5

Strengthening the digital ecosystem
Vive Digital envisages the development of the country’s
digital ecosystem based on four components:
1.
2.
3.
4.

expanding the infrastructure,
creating services at lower prices,
developing applications and digital content, and
fostering ICT adoption and use.

The foregoing has the purpose of establishing a
virtuous cycle, where a better infrastructure will allow
more and better services at lower prices, which in turn
stimulates the development of content and applications,
and thus the growth of demand.
Expanding the infrastructure
Vive Digital has already achieved a great deal. Colombia
has gone from 2.2 million Internet connections to 6.2
million in the last 2.5 years. In 2013, Colombia will reach
7.8 million Internet connections; in 2014, 8.8 million
connections. During this period, significant progress has
been made in infrastructure as the tender of the National
Fiber Optics project was assigned: in 2010, only 200
municipalities were connected with optical fiber, and now
there are 553 municipalities with optical fiber access. In
2013, Vive Digital will connect 226 municipalities more;
and in 2014, it has the goal of connecting a total of
1,078 municipalities, reaching 96 percent of the national
territory. Currently, the project has installed more than
15,000 kilometers of optical fiber.6

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.1: Colombia’s Digital Agenda

One of the fundamental tools for providing
nationwide Internet access is mobile Internet connection,
for which the fourth-generation (4G) spectrum auction is
currently underway (although it is important to note that
Colombia was the first country in the region to launch
4G mobile services). The auction process for Advanced
Wireless Services (AWS) and 2.6 GHz bands, which has
been under discussion since 2012, has gone through a
series of steps that result in granting participation to the
different interested parties and organizations. All these
assignment procedures are carried out by the Ministry
of Information and Communication Technologies (ICT
Ministry) based on the technology neutrality principle
stated in article 2 of Law 1341 of 2009. Regarding
access to spectrum, that law also establishes that
spectrum permits must always observe this principle
and be adjusted to the ministry’s policies, guaranteeing
that the usage of assigned spectrum does not generate
interference with other services, is compatible with
international spectrum usage trends, does not affect
national security, and contributes to national sustained
growth.
As part of the country’s infrastructure development
activities, content distribution network infrastructure will
be acquired and content companies will be encouraged
to deploy this infrastructure. Infrastructure protocols
for home telecommunications will be created that are
confirmed to be both feasible for the industry and
favorable for users; the coverage of communications
in the country will be expanded through the
universalization of access to public television and the
launch of digital radio with the purpose of determining
its implementation feasibility at the national level. Finally,
improvements to the Disaster Prevention and Assistance
Telecommunication Network are being implemented
in order to allow for faster, more efficient, and more
effective responses when facing emergencies and
disasters in Colombia.
Creating services at lower prices
Services are a vital component of the development of
digital connectivity. The infrastructure allows operators
to expand their service offerings, increasing coverage as
well as technological engagement on the part of users.
Some examples of services are Internet service, mobile
phone service, and text messaging services.
To ensure that by 2014 the country will have
competitive offerings of new-generation technology,
Vive Digital envisages doubling the number of Internet
access terminals and updating regulations with the
purpose of promoting new services, the wider use of
ICT infrastructures, and ensuring massive citizen access
to IT. Colombia has implemented measures that have
allowed, through public-private actions, the widespread
use of the Internet; these measures include subsidies for
Internet access aimed at lower-income inhabitants. As

a consequence, broadband connections grew by 180
percent in the country in 2.5 years.7
The penetration of personal computers (PCs)
has also increased recently, thanks to the policy that
eliminated the sales taxes and duties on computers.
The result is that Colombia is now the place where the
cheapest computers in the region can be found.8
In addition, according to the latest study, the
penetration rate in mobile telephony is 105.3 percent.9
Household connections grew from 17 percent in
2010 up to 33.8 percent in 2012.10 By 2013, Colombia
expects that 43 percent of households will be
connected; the target for 2014 is to connect 50 percent
of households. In addition, Vive Digital has given 82,000
computers to children and youth in more than 3,500
educational sites through the Computadores para
Educar (the Computers to Educate Program, or CPE).
Approximately 7 million children have benefited from
the purchase of 577,000 computers, which are being
delivered to more than 13,500 educational centers. This
is the largest purchase of computers ever made by the
Colombian government.
In another instance of Colombia’s progress, on
August 28, 2008, Colombia adopted the European digital
terrestrial television standard, DVB-T, using MPEG4
H.264, with a channel bandwidth of 6 MHz. Following the
recommendation of the Comisión Nacional de Televisión
(National Television Commission, or its acronym in
Spanish, CNTV) to migrate from the DVB-T standard for
digital terrestrial television delivery to the more advanced
DVB-T2 standard, the Colombian government officially
adopted DVB-T2 on December 20, 2011. Regulations
for the adoption of this more advanced standard for
digital terrestrial television in Colombia are established
in Acuerdo CNTV 002/2012 (a regulation issued by the
CNTV—Hoy en Liquidación).11
Developing applications and digital content
The expansion of applications and digital content
offerings, focused on local needs, will yield greater
productivity on the part of consumers as well as an
increase in development opportunities.
Applications are computing tools that allow users
to communicate, execute procedures, and learn
and work from different types of terminals, such as
computers, tablets, or mobile phones. Digital content
offerings refers to the content that can be accessed by
the applications. Together, advances in these two areas
are essential for a healthy digital ecosystem and are
already well under way.
Since 2010, the ICT Ministry’s e-government
program, Gobierno en Línea, has framed its activities in
the National Development Plan 2010–2014 and in the
Plan Vive Digital, especially in the applications, content,
and users components defined by the digital ecosystem
of Vive Digital.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 113

2.1: Colombia’s Digital Agenda

The e-government department promotes the
implementation and use of the e-government strategy by
means of two initiatives: (1) encourage good government
through the use of ICTs, and (2) give citizens the power
to interact with the state through the use of ICTs.
• Encourage good government through the use
of ICTs. This initiative is intended to strengthen
e-government in public administration institutions
and to promote the implementation of the strategy
in the legislative and judicial branches of the public
power, in the autonomous public organizations, and
in the rest of public sector. The initiative is supported
by three processes in order to fulfill its objective:
(1) design and innovate to collect and create the
directives, products, and services of the strategy;
(2) provide technical services and solutions; and (3)
appropriate e-government in the state to promote
knowledge, implementation, and use of online
government tools by public officials and employees.
• Give citizens the power to interact with the
state through the use of ICTs. This initiative is
intended to strengthen the capacities of citizens and
businesses to relate to public organizations and to
create opportunities for collaboration, participation,
and information for social development. This
process is called Adoption of e-Government in
Society.
In 2012, the national government online website,
Gobierno en Línea, had the following results:
• An increase in the offerings and quality of online
procedures and services to approximately 1,024
partial and total online procedures and services
throughout the country.
• The promotion of e-government culture through
electronic channels: 50 percent of citizens and 78
percent of businesses interacted with the state
through electronic channels in 2012.
• A total of 19,222 public officials and contractors
were taught and made familiar with ICTs.
• Policies and directives to promote e-government
development: directives were implemented in
security, usage, interoperability, data access, and
zero paper.
• Improvements in the information exchange between
public organizations: 56 public organizations
released information exchange services in the
interoperability platform.

114 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

• Promotion of mechanisms to optimize the
technological infrastructure of the organizations:
the Government Intranet Data Center has 77
applications from 12 organizations that have
on-demand computing services, generating savings
of US$3.3 million on infrastructure services.
• Now 137 organizations use the state’s high-speed
network.
• The launch of the Urna de Cristal (Crystal Ballot Box)
has made the government more open to oversight
and has elevated the level of accountability of
government officials.12 Meanwhile, hiring processes
at both the national and regional levels are
monitored by the Electronic Hiring System.13
Strengthening the digital content industry is of
paramount importance to a successful digital ecosystem.
Colombia is currently implementing a digital content
policy to address this need. One of the main goals of this
policy is that, by the end of 2014, there will be 17 digital
centers all across the country (called Vive Labs). These
centers will provide a place in which anyone can learn
digital content skills and will empower new entrepreneurs
with high-quality equipment and licensed software.
In another example, Fortalecimiento de la Industria
TI (FITI) is a program that aims to contribute to the
transformation of the IT industry in a world-class sector.14
In order to fulfill this aim, the program works through
different action lines that integrate a systemic model.
In addition, the MIPYME Vive Digital program
seeks to boost competitiveness, productivity, and
employment in the country by widely expanding the use
of the Internet among micro-, small- and medium-sized
enterprises in Colombia. Vive Digital’s objective is to
increase Internet penetration among micro-enterprises
to 50 percent. When President Santo took office, only 7
percent of micro-enterprises were connected and used
the Internet, mainly because they were not aware of
how the Internet could be helpful to them. The initiative
has centered its efforts on deploying applications for
micro-enterprises through medium-sized and large
enterprises that can improve their business relationship
and processes using these applications with hundreds or
thousands of micro-enterprises, which are their providers
or distributors. In this way, micro-enterprises see the
real business value of the Internet and appropriate its
use in their daily operations. The government is also
working with ICT providers (such as telecommunication
operators, PC vendors, and software developers) to
change and complement their products so that they
include business applications specifically for microenterprise sectors. Internet penetration among microenterprises had increased almost threefold by December
2012, and is now at 20 percent.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.1: Colombia’s Digital Agenda

The Apps.co program seeks to have a strong digital
entrepreneurship ecosystem in Colombia. The results
are very impressive: more than 21,000 Colombians are
learning how to code, and more than 480 projects are
looking for business opportunities. All these projects
are being supported by accelerators and institutions
that have been trained by Bob Dolf and Steve Blank,
two of the most successful entrepreneurs in the world.
Currently the ICT Ministry is supporting 70 companies
looking for venture capital investment. In that way, the
ministry aims to foster both ICT entrepreneurship and
private investment within the country.
Fostering ICT adoption and use
The model is based on the premise that it is necessary
to encourage the offering of and demand for digital
services at the same time. The objective is to create a
virtuous cycle: expanding the infrastructure promotes
the offer of low-cost services, which encourage the
development of digital applications and content, which
in turn stimulate demand for these two products on
the part of users, who will then have more incentives to
acquire and use these services—thus increasing the size
of the market.
The CPE program is responsible for bridging the
social and regional gap of Colombia by bringing ICTs
to children in rural and remote zones and by training
teachers to be better acquainted with technology. The
aim is to improve the quality of education in public
schools. This program also helps the environment by
recycling obsolete computers. According to an impact
evaluation, the CPE reduces dropout rates, raises
standardized test scores, and increases the probability
that a child will enroll in higher education.
When President Santos took office in August
2010, there was a ratio of 20 students per computer.
On December 2012, this ratio was reduced to 15 to 1,
thanks to the delivery of more than 250,000 terminals
(including laptops, PCs, and tablets). The program
has also trained 14,000 public school teachers in the
use of ICTs. Aligned with environmental initiatives, the
program has refurbished 753 tons of obsolete computers
(approximately 36,600 computers) in order to reduce the
impact that ICTs have on the environment.
In 2013, the CPE program plans to deliver
266,147 terminals to 12,100 public schools, libraries,
and community centers (which includes 4,500 new
establishments that had not received this benefit earlier).
It also plans to provide 150 hours of teacher training in
ICTs (at least one teacher in each establishment), and to
train 180,000 parents for 12 hours in order to develop
their ICT skills. Finally, in 2013, CPE expects to set a
record in terms of environmental strategy by refurbishing
more than 29,800 obsolete computers (612 tons) taken
from public schools.

Another initiative from the ICT Ministry, En TIC
Confío is a nationwide program that seeks to promote
confidence and security in the use of the Internet
and other ICTs in Colombia, as well as divulging and
appropriating content concerned with the productive,
creative, safe, respectful, and responsible use of ICTs in
order to help improve the quality of life for all Colombian
people.
Through this ICT Ministry program, we seek to
recognize and prevent behaviors that occur every
day and are present in the virtual world as sexting,
cyberbullying, phishing, Internet addiction, and child
pornography. En TIC Confío is focused on guardians,
teachers, parents, and children in the educational
community. To date, it has reached 78,915 people
through interactive conferences. Since 2011, it has
produced over 700 pieces of related content that aims to
empower the fight against these unwanted behaviors.
In 2012, 1,476 URLs to sites containing child
pornography were published by the ICT Ministry platform
so they could be blocked by Colombian ISPs.
By the end of 2014, it is expected that 150,000
people will have been effectively reached by the
conference for the responsible use of ICTs. Furthermore,
300 new pieces of content for the program will have
been generated, and outreach campaigns such as
Ciberpapaya, Cibercuidado, and Monstruos en Red will
allow us to achieve at least 20 million impacts in media
(print, radio, television, and the web).
Another project, the Digital Citizenship Program,
seeks to promote access, use, dissemination, and
adoption of ICTs among public servants and in the
public education sector. The initiative aims to increase
levels of incorporation, adaptation, and integration of
technologies as required for achievement of sustainable
growth in Colombia, ensuring increased productivity and
competitiveness while consolidating the quality of the
Colombian educational system. Every public servant and
teacher in Colombia is to be trained and certified under
the program by 2014.
To date, there have been 300,000 people registered
for the Digital Citizenship Program; by 2014, 700,000
are expected to have completed their digital citizenship
training.15
Redvolucion is another interesting social project
aimed at encouraging and inspiring a significantly
heightened use of the Internet by community members
through stimulating education and training. It also aims
to promote the use of ICTs to meet various everyday
needs, thereby creating an emotional engagement with
technology.16 The online portal is equipped with a variety
of learning activities related to ICTs on an interactive
multimedia web platform. Training is targeted at the
lower strata of society and is carried out by high school
students.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 115

2.1: Colombia’s Digital Agenda

To date, over 110 educational institutions are
included in Redvolution´s project. The goal for 2014 is to
reach 3,000 educational institutions.
REGIONAL IMPACT
The goal of the ICT Ministry is to impact all 32
departments in Colombia through three strategies:17
1.

Promotion of the ICTs offered in each of the
departments of Colombia through:
— promoting the creation of regional ICT
institutions,
— providing support for the integration of the
different ICT issues into the development
plans of both departments and towns, and
— representing ICTs in the regions via ICT
regional advisers.

2.

Joint financing of regional projects through the
Vive Digital Regional initiative, which would entail:
— providing technical support in the
development of projects to be presented in
official announcements,
— developing nationwide announcements for
joint financing of regional projects, and
— supporting the execution of regional projects
through a local supervision support scheme.

3.

Regional research development, which would
include:
— developing regional research studies as a tool
for the decision-making process, and
— developing best-practices studies in the
execution of regional agreements.

To date, the ICT Ministry is working in 26 of the
country’s 32 regions on the joint financing of projects
to strengthen regional digital ecosystems. The budget
for the joint financing of ICT regional projects to support
Colombian regions grew nearly sevenfold, from US$26
million (47 billion pesos) in the previous quarter to
US$180 million (323.5 billion pesos) in the current one.
Additionally, a public policy for the regionalization
of ICTs, which considers the equity in available
opportunities for the regions and the elimination of
boundaries, the encouragement of innovation, and good
governance as basic performance principles, has been
structured.
The ICT Ministry motivated the departmental and
town governments to include ICTs as part of their
development plans, with the destination of services
resources for more than US$44 million (78 billion pesos)
for the joint financing of regional projects.
GENERAL ACHIEVEMENTS
• On February 28, 2012, Colombia won the award
for the government with the most innovative
telecommunication policies in the world. It won

116 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

the Government Leadership Award 2012 for the
Plan Vive Digital at the Global Telecommunications
Conference in Barcelona, based on “the
management and strategies established by solid
telecommunication regulators, based on clear
principles that encourage private investment and
healthy competition in the last twelve months.”
Winning this award highlights Vive Digital as an
innovative telecommunication policy with a high
economic and social impact. The CPE program
of the ICT Ministry was designated as a world
model for exemplary performance in access to
technologies and knowledge at the opening of the
World Summit on the Information Society that is
held in Geneva, Switzerland. In addition, the CPE
program was chosen as a project that generates
lessons that can be replicated elsewhere in the
world. For CPE, the fundamental principle is to
reach the teachers with training in their own context,
so that they get the most out of technology. That is
the added value of this social program, as well as
the care and maintenance that allows educational
venues in Colombia to have technical support.
• Colombia is the second highest ranked country in
Latin America and the Caribbean for e-government,
according to the Survey of the Economic and Social
Department of the United Nations.
• Colombia is the sixth highest ranked country
worldwide for electronic participation, according to
the Survey of the Economic and Social Department
of the United Nations.
• Colombia is the tenth best ranked country
worldwide on electronic services, according to the
Survey of the Economic and Social Department of
the United Nations.
The technological challenges that face the country
are significant. However, we have identified these
challenges and we have the desire and willingness to
do what it takes to overcome them. To that end, we
rely on a highly qualified technical team and on the
support of the national government. The goals have
been established and we are on track. Little by little,
we have witnessed how the investments we have made
in infrastructure have improved the development of the
digital ecosystem in Colombia.
These investments are an indispensable stepping
stone in moving forward with the adoption and
ownership of IT as an important tool for decreasing
unemployment and poverty, while increasing the
country’s competitiveness. The impact of the Plan Vive

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.1: Colombia’s Digital Agenda

Digital can also be seen in the latest study of digital
consumption in Colombia, released in February 2013.18
NOTES
1 See http://www.mintic.gov.co/index.php/english-life-digital and
studies from Raul Katz (Columbia University). For more information
regarding Katz’s work, visit http://www.udesa.edu.ar/files/
UAAdministracion/CV%20profesores/RAUL%20KATZ.PDF.
2 See studies by Raul Katz, Columbia University, 2010; http://www.
mintic.gov.co/index.php/english-life-digital; UNCTAD 2010.
3 World Bank 2010; World Economic Forum 2011.
4 For the attitude of the general public, see the ICT Ministry’s 2010
survey of 2,300 low-income inhabitants in 43 municipalities;
Ipsos Media IT’s 2012 survey of 1,005 inhabitants in major
cities of Colombia. For the attitude of small and medium-sized
businesses, see the ICT Ministry’s 2010 survey of 1,500 small
and medium-sized enterprises in 43 municipalities. These surveys
were conducted by McKinsey & Company while assessing the ICT
diagnosis for the Plan Vive Digital in October 2010.
5 The definition of Internet connections in Plan Vive Digital includes
wired connections of speeds of more than 1,024 kb/s and 3G/4G
wireless connections.
6 ICT Ministry data.
7 ICT Min 2013.
8 Intel, 2012 notebook price comparison study, Colombia-USA,
November 22; IDC, 2012 notebook and PC price comparison
study, Latin American countries.
9 ICT Ministry 2013.
10 ICT Ministry 2013.
11 CNTV 2012. Acuerdo No. 002 of 2012 is published on the
Authority’s Internet site at http://www.antv.gov.co/normatividad/
acuerdos/2012/acuerdo_002.pdf.
12 More information about the Crystal Ballot Box is available at http://
www.urnadecristal.gov.co/.
13 For more information, visit http://www.colombiacompra.gov.co/.
14 For information about FITI, see http://www.fiti.gov.co/.
15 For information about the Digital Citizenship Program, see http://
web.unad.edu.co/ciudadaniadigital/.
16 Details about Redvolucion can be found at http://redvolucion.gov.
co/s/inicio.
17 Colombia is divided into 32 departments. These in turn are divided
into municipalities.
18 See the presentation of the survey (in Spanish) at http://www.
slideshare.net/DiegoMolanoVega/encuesta-de-consumo-digital.

REFERENCES
CNT (Comisión Nacional de Television). 2012. Acuerdo No. 002, 6 April.
Available at http://www.antv.gov.co/normatividad/acuerdos/2012/
acuerdo_002.pdf.
ICT Ministry (Ministry of Information and Communication Technologies).
2013. ICT Report 4T of 2012. March. ICT Ministry. Available at
http://www.mintic.gov.co/images/documentos/cifras_del_sector/
boletin_4t_banda_ancha_vive_digital_2012.pdf.
UNCTAD (United Nations Conference on Trade and Development). 2010.
Information Economy Report 2010: ICTs, Enterprises and Poverty
Alleviation. New York and Geneva: United Nations. Available at
http://unctad.org/en/docs/ier2010_embargo2010_en.pdf.
World Economic Forum. 2011. The Global Information Technology
Report 2010–2011: Transformations 2.0. Geneva: World Economic
Forum.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 117

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 2.2

The Metamorphosis
to a Knowledge-Based
Society: Rwanda
ALEX NTALE, Rwanda ICT Chamber, Private

Sector Federation
ATSUSHI YAMANAKA , Rwanda Development

Board-ICT/Japan International Cooperation Agency
DIDIER NKURIKIYIMFURA , Ministry of Youth and

ICT of Rwanda

Rwanda’s economy has continued to grow at
comparably good rates, averaging 8 percent per annum,
despite the global recessionary period that started in
2008. The country’s continuing growth in the midst
of the global downturn can be attributed to its good
governance and sound fiscal discipline, as well as to the
commitment from both its public and private sectors to
build a more equitable country.
In the World Bank’s Doing Business 2012 report,1
Rwanda is ranked number one in East Africa with
respect to starting up a business, registering property,
protecting investors’ interests, enforcing contracts,
and obtaining access to credit. The 2012 Global
Competitiveness Report, published by the World
Economic Forum,2 ranked Rwanda the most competitive
economy among the East Africa Community countries
and third in sub-Saharan Africa. Rwanda also received
the top ranking in East Africa, and 7th in the continent,
among countries with active mobile broadband
subscriptions per 100 inhabitants in 2011 in the United
Nations Broadband Commission report.3
Unlike most African nations, Rwanda has limited
natural resources. This limitation presents an opportunity
for Rwanda to take an approach to development that
differs from that of its neighbors—an approach where
information and communication technologies (ICTs)
form the linchpin of its plans to fundamentally transform
its economy. At the beginning of the decade, Rwanda
drew up a blueprint—dubbed Vision 2020—for how
to achieve this goal. Adopted in 2000, Vision 2020
outlines several initiatives, programs, and strategies for
transforming Rwanda into a middle-income country and
transitioning its agrarian economy into an informationrich, knowledge-based one by 2020.
Over the past decade, the government and the
private sector have invested massively in building the
right infrastructure, skills, and institutional frameworks
to provide an environment that is conducive to meeting
this target: from the establishment of higher institutions
of learning to the laying of fiber-optic cable nationwide,
this landlocked country is overcoming all obstacles and
moving forward.
The fact that the country is landlocked alone
poses challenges for a nation with big ambitions. But
the distance from Rwanda to the coast—both from
Mombasa in neighboring Kenya and from Dar es
Salaam in Tanzania—was circumvented by connecting
to two submarine cables (the Eastern Africa Submarine
Cable System, or EASSY, through Uganda to Kenya
in Mombasa and The East African Marine System, or
TEAMS, submarine cable through Tanzania at the Dar
es Salaam coast). This is crucial because it creates
the redundancies that ensure high-quality, reliable
connections with no, or minimum, interruptions even
when a fiber-optic cable has been inadvertently cut by
road construction or farming activities. The advantages

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 119

2.2: The Metamorphosis to a Knowledge-Based Society: Rwanda

of this approach have been witnessed most recently
when the Mombasa submarine landing site experienced
fiber-optic cable cuts that tampered with Internet usage
in Kenya and neighboring Uganda, but Internet usage
was maintained in Rwanda because of the redundancy
from the Tanzanian coast. Besides laying the national
fiber backbone, which is underground, Rwanda has also
rolled out fiber on its electricity national grid network.
This creates extra coverage above ground and reduces
the risk of cut cables that tends to haunt underground
cable networks.
In addition, Rwanda has differentiated itself by
adopting an approach that translates into putting forth
a framework that goes beyond merely utilizing ICTs as
enablers for socioeconomic development. The country
also strongly emphasizes the need to explore how to
become the ICT service provider for the region and
the continent at large. Naturally this requires strong,
harmonious policy and regulatory frameworks to
supplement the infrastructure already in place.
POLICY FRAMEWORKS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
In order to transform Rwanda into a knowledge-based
economy, the government integrated ICTs into its
Vision 2020 to enable it to leapfrog the key stages of
industrialization. The aim was to transform the agrobased economy into a service-oriented, informationrich, and knowledge-based one that is globally
competitive. Rwanda’s unique experience is driven by
the strong partnership among the regulatory, policy, and
implementing bodies, which are all under the charge of
the Ministry of Youth and ICT.
The national ICT strategy and plan—commonly
known as the National Information Communication
Infrastructure Plan (the NICI Plan)—was adopted by
Rwanda in 2000, under the auspices of the United
Nations Economic Commission for Africa, as a holistic
approach to using ICTs for development. Each of
four five-year phases (NICI spans 20 years in total)
characterizes this strategy and is aligned with the
country’s overall development goals and vision.
NICI I: The creation of an enabling environment
The first phase, NICI I, effectively focused on creating
an environment conducive to using ICTs as tools for
development in Rwanda by putting in place effective
implementation and coordination mechanisms. These
included, but were not limited to, the appropriate
institutional, legal, and regulatory frameworks that would
support rapid development of Rwanda’s ICT sector,
liberalize the telecommunications industry, and reduce
entry barriers to the telecommunications market.
NICI II: The development of ICT infrastructure
The second phase of the plan, NICI II, concentrated on
establishing critical national ICT infrastructure. Huge

120 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

investments have been made in developing world-class
ICT infrastructure. The results are highlighted below:
• A high-speed fiber-optic backbone network now
interconnects all districts and border points of the
country. This network interconnects all government
institutions and other private enterprises located in
Kigali as part of the Kigali Metropolitan Network. In
addition, Rwanda acquired international capacity
equivalent to 2.5 gigabytes (GB), connecting to two
international routes through submarine fiber-optic
cables.
• Mobile phone/data coverage for Rwanda’s
population reached 96 percent in 2011 both through
the efforts of aggressive public investment and
the introduction of transparent competition among
private-sector telecommunications operators.
• A state-of-the-art Tier 3 Data Center, the first of its
kind in the region, offers 99.98 percent reliability and
cloud services.
• The Karisimbi ICT infrastructure project is equipped
with a communications, navigation surveillance,
and automated traffic management system to ease
the flow of air traffic and reduce the risk of flight
delays and cancellations in the busy airspace of the
Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa/
East African Community region.
• The establishment of a digital terrestrial television
(DTT) transmission system boosts television,
radio, and telecommunication coverage and the
deployment of digital television transmitters have
improved nationwide television coverage—to 95
percent coverage of the nation’s physical territory—
hence satisfying citizens’ rights to access to
information.
• Multipurpose community telecenters, public
information kiosks, and ICT buses have been
deployed across the country to increase access
to ICTs, provide ICT literacy training, and raise
ICT awareness, among other services. The
establishment of an innovation center provides an
ecosystem in which startups combine innovation
and entrepreneurship to produce homegrown
solutions for local challenges along with globally
scalable knowledge.
Enhanced service-delivery programs
Owing to the robust ICT infrastructure that has been
put in place, the government has been able to improve
operational efficiency in the public sector. ICT initiatives
that foster development in key economic sectors and

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.2: The Metamorphosis to a Knowledge-Based Society: Rwanda

that greatly improve Rwanda’s service-delivery system
have been established. These initiatives fall into three
main categories:
• In business:
– business incubators and career development
support services;
– online trade information portals;
– online tax calculators;
– a credit reference bureau;
– a land administration and management
information system;
– an electronic case management system for legal
cases;
– online business registration;
– a smart national identification system; and
– improvements in online banking and the
e-transaction regulatory system.
• In agriculture:
– E-Soko—a mobile market information solution that
allows farmers and consumers to access market
information for agricultural products; and
– the agricultural management information system.
• In healthcare:
– Open MRS—an open-source medical records
system that facilitates nationwide tracking of
patient data;
– TRACnet—a system that allows the central
collection and storage of clinical health
information;
– Mobile e-Health—a system used by community
health workers to collect data for Open MRS and
TRACnet systems; and
– telemedicine facilities connecting hospitals in rural
areas to referral hospitals in urban areas.
The impact of ICTs on foreign direct investment
in Rwanda
With the huge investments in ICT infrastructure, over
US$540 million in foreign direct investment (FDI) has
been attracted to the ICT sector. This has led to an influx
of foreign institutions setting up operations in Rwanda.
Among these are VISA, Inc., the multinational financial
services and global payment systems giant that set up
its Rwandan offices in late 2011; and Airtel, the fourthlargest telecommunications company in the world, which
began operations in March 2012.
NICI III: Service development
The third phase of the plan, NICI III (also known as the
NICI-2015 Plan), is focusing on the development of
services by leveraging ICTs to improve service delivery
to Rwandan citizens. NICI III’s overarching goal focuses
on accelerating service development through ICTs,

thereby facilitating sustainable economic competitiveness
and increasing ICTs’ contribution to GDP. In this phase,
emphasis is placed on five focus areas that will accelerate
service development and fuel economic growth:
• Skills development: developing high-quality skills
and a competent knowledge base for workers;
• Private-sector development: developing a vibrant,
competitive, and innovative ICT sector and ICTenabled private sector;
• Community development: empowering and
transforming communities through improved access
to information and services;
• E-government: improving government operational
efficiency and service delivery; and
• Cyber security: securing Rwanda’s cyberspace
and information assets.
With the establishment of the Kigali Free Trade
Zone, Rwanda again looks at moving forward and fasttracking development in all sectors. The zone will be
home to various industries, including an ICT park. It will
provide tax incentives for businesses situated there,
especially those targeting the export market—these
incentives include a 0 percent corporate tax valueadded tax exemption, a 0 percent import duty, and a
100 percent research and development costs write-off,
among other advantages. At the core of the technology
park will be Carnegie Mellon University, a world-class
university with which the government of Rwanda has
partnered to establish a center of excellence that will
develop much-needed, highly skilled ICT professionals.
The technology park, which will be heavily oriented
toward research and development, is envisioned to
foster key clusters in ICTs, including business process
outsourcing, cloud computing, ICT education and
training, e-government, cyber security, and mobile
solutions.
The composition of the ICT industry
Rwanda’s ICT private sector is classified into eight
categories under the ICT Chamber in the Private Sector
Federation. Although the industry is still young, it is
growing quickly, both domestically, with new business
registrations from fresh ICT graduates, and with foreign
multinationals. The composition of the industry can
be categorized according to different business lines:
software developers, telecommunication and Internet
service providers, broadcasters, information technology
equipment resellers, ICT capacity-building businesses,
system integrators under ICT solutions providers, and, of
course, cyber café operators. These different business

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 121

2.2: The Metamorphosis to a Knowledge-Based Society: Rwanda

Figure 1: Telecommunications market share, incumbent Internet service providers

1a: Market share, March 2012

1b: Market share, June 2012

n MTN Rwanda
n Tigo Rwanda
n Airtel Rwanda

Source: ITU World Telecommunications/ICT Indicators Database 2012; Ookla Net Index 2012.

lines are organized as associations, with forums to
share experiences and challenges that may face them
all. Cross-cutting ICT issues within the associations
are represented by the ICT Chamber; for matters that
pertain to the general business environment and are not
unique to ICTs, the Private Sector Federation is engaged.
Although the most vibrant of these business lines or
associations are the telecommunications and Internet
service providers groups, the industry continues to
evolve.

competitive. The coverage for each network is depicted
in Table 1.
Table 1: Coverage of operators, June 2012
Operator

MTN Rwanda
Tigo Rwanda
Airtel Rwanda

Geographical
coverage (%)

97.9
78.7
3.0

Population
coverage (%)

97.7
97.1
9.0

Source: PMO, 2012.

The development of the telecommunication industry
The telecommunication industry is dominated by three
mobile phone operators: MTN Rwanda, Tigo Rwanda,
and Airtel, with a combined mobile phone penetration
rate of 47.5 percent as of August 2012, and over 10
licensed Internet service providers.
Total investment in the telecommunications sector in
2011 was over US$46 million; it exceeded US$36 million
for the first six months of 2012.

Trend of fixed and mobile subscribers
In a clear indicator of the success of the adoption of
ICTs, the mobile phone penetration rate of Rwanda
rose meteorically between 2002 and 2012. Figure 2
shows the trend in the numbers of both fixed line and
mobile subscribers from the year 2002 to June 2012,
and illustrates how phone penetration took off in 2007.
Between June 2012 and October 2012 alone, mobile
teledensity has risen from 44.4 percent to 47.5 percent.

Telecommunication market share
MTN Rwanda is leading in terms of mobile subscribers,
with 63.7 percent of the market share, followed by Tigo,
which has 33.9 percent. Airtel Rwanda, which began
operating in March 2012, has the lowest market share—
2.4 percent, as illustrated in Figure 1.

Internet penetration rate
From 2008 to 2010, there was an exponential increase
of Internet penetration, made possible by the increase
of competition in the telecommunication sector. In 2011,
we observed a slight decrease in Internet penetration
because of the revocation of the mobile license of one of
the operators, Rwandatel.

Network performance and coverage
All three operators are making the investments
necessary to upgrade their respective networks and be

122 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.2: The Metamorphosis to a Knowledge-Based Society: Rwanda

Figure 2: Trends of fixed and mobile subscribers, 2002–12

6

No. of subscribers, millions

5

4

3

2

1

0
2002

2003

2004

2005

2006

2007

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

Source: Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority (RURA).

HUMAN CAPACITY BUILDING
In line with Vision 2020, the government of Rwanda is
committed to investing in human capital. This translates
into nurturing a strong skills base and fostering an
environment that promotes knowledge and skills transfer
between academia and industry.
Carnegie Mellon University-Rwanda
One of the approaches to knowledge creation and
transfer can be seen in the induction of Carnegie Mellon
University (CMU) in Rwanda as a means to transform
graduate education. With a history of excellence in higher
education, and as a global thought leader in technology
innovation, Carnegie Mellon is the first US research
institution offering degrees in Africa with an in-country
presence and resident faculty—transporting first-class
education to the Rwandan education scene. CMU’s
presence will dramatically transform the knowledge base
in the country and incorporate capacity building.
ICTs in education
The government of Rwanda has implemented numerous
ICT initiatives in education that are transforming the field.
These initiatives include training in ICTs for primary and
secondary school teachers; scholarships in science
and technology; the ICT Training & Research Institute
at Kigali Institute of Science and Technology (KIST); the
Educational Management Information System, and the
Rwanda Development Gateway—an information portal
that includes education information.

The One Laptop per Child initiative is aimed at
familiarizing Rwandan schoolchildren with computers
and preparing them to gain quality skills through ICTbased innovative education content. This ongoing
program has already distributed more than 110,000
laptops in primary schools across the country.
At tertiary-level institutions, the National Electronic
Distance Education and Training Programme
complements campus-based education by deploying
electronic message technologies, in addition to the teleeducation program at the Kigali Institute of Education
and African Virtual University at KIST.
ICT innovation center: The Knowledge Lab (kLab)
In tandem with Rwanda’s journey to becoming a
knowledge-based economy, the government—in
partnership with the private sector and the Japan
International Cooperation Agency—have put in place
kLab, an ICT innovation center with the mission of
promoting and supporting the development of innovative
ICT solutions by nurturing a community of entrepreneurs
facilitated by experienced mentors.
KLab brings like-minded innovators together and
provides the resources needed to explore and exchange
their ideas—resulting in innovative solutions to local
problems. KLab hosts coding competitions, seminars,
classes, and other community-led events. Similar
initiatives across the world have shown that the synergy
created through such an environment is a critical aspect
in the growth of a healthy ICT sector.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 123

2.2: The Metamorphosis to a Knowledge-Based Society: Rwanda

CHALLENGES AND THE WAY FORWARD
Despite the tremendous progress that has been made,
the ICT sector continues to encounter challenges that
hinder its development. Among these challenges are:
• The limited availability and high costs of energy:
The nation is known as the “land of a thousand
hills.” This geographical configuration has posed
challenges to the penetration of the national grid
network and has led to limited electricity availability
in those places that are not easily accessible.
The high costs of electricity have stemmed from
its limited generation, which has—in the past—
depended on hydro generation. Coupled with high
transmission costs and legacy power management
systems, these factors have led to the high costs of
energy in Rwanda.
The challenge has been understood and
measures are being taken to address it, beginning
with a huge campaign for alternative energy sources
such as solar and biomass fuels, among others.
The potential of employing new mechanisms of
transmission and distribution management through
a SMART electricity grid and energy market design
are also being considered.
• A shortage of highly skilled ICT personnel: The
shortage of highly skilled ICT personnel has resulted
in key investment opportunities being missed.
As early 1997, three years after the country’s
devastating genocide, Rwanda recognized the
need for technology as a driver of growth. The
government thus established KIST with the sole
purpose of producing highly skilled engineers to
serve the nation’s development goals. However, the
demand kept growing, with the result that more and
more universities have been introducing ICT-focused
courses. But even with all these efforts, there is
still a skills gap. This gap has been identified as a
consequence of the late adoption of ICTs by the
students.
This obstacle is now being solved by early ICT
adoption. ICT courses are now introduced at very
early stages through initiatives such as One Laptop
per Child. It was also in response to this challenge
that Rwanda invited CMU to set up a campus in
Rwanda to provide training in highly specialized ICT
courses.
• Low broadband Internet penetration: Although
Rwanda ranks above many African countries in
Internet penetration, the penetration rates by which
it leads are still very low by its own standards; it is
actively working to address this situation. In the end,
Rwanda considers that providing affordable and
stable broadband access throughout all parts of the

124 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

country is essential to its development. Rwanda’s
telecommunications market is still dominated by
voice-centric mobile services.
With nationwide fiber-optic coverage, the
country is embarking on ensuring that last-mile
access is provided to fully maximize the opportunity
at hand. A study has been commissioned with
the aim of mapping out Rwanda’s broadband
needs across the entire country in order to bridge
the digital divide through last mile broadband
connectivity. The plan is to install fiber to some
premises and wireless broadband for the rest.
• Limited access to finance: There is still a void in
Rwanda’s technology sector with regard to funding,
especially for early-stage companies that need angel
and venture capital. The ecosystem that attracts
FDI flow is nonexistent at the moment. Coupled
with high lending rates, the lack of finance makes it
difficult for would-be entrepreneurs to see ICTs as
an avenue for establishing business. Unlike other
sectors—such as financial services and real estate,
which have seen a boom in venture capital flow—
technology has not yet benefitted from its potential.
The lending regime in Rwanda is also such that
loans are given against collateral; in most cases,
this is the company’s assets. This model does not
fit well with ICT companies, since the assets are
usually in software, which banks consider to be
highly risky and do not fit well in their risk analysis
models.
Working with local banks, initiatives are being
launched to help financial institutions develop risk
analysis models that can address the industry’s
needs—particularly those that are into software
development. Campaigns are also being carried out
to attract venture capital firms from the region and
beyond to look at the opportunities in Rwanda. One
such initiative—the Rwanda Innovation Endowment
Fund—seeks to facilitate startup companies in three
major areas: ICTs, agriculture, and manufacturing.
The initiative, which will provide funding up to
US$50,000 to qualifying projects, aims at promoting
the most promising innovations with seed capital.
CONCLUSION
Rwanda is making the remarkable journey from an
agrarian economy to a knowledge-based economy with
a strong focus on providing services and information.
The Rwandan experience can serve as an illustration of
how a nation with limited natural resources can invest
in human capital and make use of ICTs to transcend
economic shortcomings and emerge as a leader in its
region.
The aligned vision of all stakeholders in the ICT
sector, along with the partnerships with all other sectors

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.2: The Metamorphosis to a Knowledge-Based Society: Rwanda

at the national level, will translate into ICTs acting to
enable all tiers of socioeconomic development in
Rwanda. The unified efforts of all sectors to adopt ICTs
in their operations have made all the difference.
The country’s experience has not been without
challenges: bridging the knowledge and skills gap
to create an information-rich, skilled society base
and bridging the digital divide are two focal points of
interest addressed in the ICT and education policies
of Rwanda. The induction of CMU in Rwanda, along
with the concerted efforts made at the tertiary level to
produce quality technopreneurs, will pay off by creating
a strong, highly skilled workforce. In addition, by laying
a backbone of optical fiber around the country and at all
border points, Rwanda has invested heavily in laying the
groundwork to make sure every Rwandan has access to
communication technologies. This intricate groundwork
will also serve to attract more FDI to Rwanda as a means
to further stimulate ICT growth in the region.
Rwanda’s ambitions permeate its borders: it intends
to capitalize on its central location in Africa and act as
a hub for banking and financial services, as well as
business process outsourcing services, leveraging on
the strength of its ICT sector. With seven years to meet
Vision 2020 and counting, Rwanda is already emerging
as a regional ICT leader. The country confidently looks to
heralding ICT growth not only in the region, but also on
the continent as a whole.
NOTES
1 World Bank 2011.
2 World Economic Forum 2012.
3 United Nations Broadband Commission 2012.

REFERENCES
PMO (Prime Minister’s Office). 2012. Brief Report on Telecom
Operations. Rwanda Utilities Regulatory Authority, December.
United Nations Broadband Commission. 2012. The State of Broadband
2012: Achieving Digital Inclusion for All. 2012. Geneva: ITU and
UNESCO. Available at http://www.broadbandcommission.org/
Documents/bb-annualreport2012.pdf.
World Bank. 2011. Doing Business 2012. Washington, DC: World Bank.
World Economic Forum. 2012. The Global Competitiveness Report
2012–2013. Geneva: World Economic Forum.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 125

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

CHAPTER 2.3

E-Government in Latin
America: A Review of the
Success in Colombia,
Uruguay, and Panama
MIGUEL A. PORRÚA

Organization of American States

Most Latin American countries entered the 21st century
with a gloomy economic outlook. Although the 1990s
did not acquire the “lost decade” stamp of the 1980s,
Latin American economies were not able to leap forward
and catch up to the level of socioeconomic development
of the most advanced nations. The dawn of the 1990s
witnessed shock to the financial markets with the real
currency crisis in Brazil; the 2000s began with the
financial crisis in Argentina, with its decision—made in
2001—to suspend payments to international creditors on
its sovereign debt. The consequences of this decision
are still fishtailing around the tables of international
courts, as can be seen clearly in a report issued by the
Congressional Research Service in February 2013 under
the title Argentina´s Defaulted Sovereign Debt: Dealing
with the “Holdouts.”1
The first decade of the new century ended up
presenting a remarkable socioeconomic advancement
in the majority of Latin American countries. Part of
that general progress runs parallel to a conscious and
valued effort to bring the countries of the region into
the knowledge-based society. This conscious effort is
emphasized in the cases of Colombia, Uruguay, and
Panama, which will be analyzed in this chapter.
THE ARRIVAL OF E-GOVERNMENT IN LATIN
AMERICA
In the crisis context described above, governments in the
region live under constant pressure to meet the needs
of their citizens with the fewest resources possible. This
call for efficient management of public finances has
been answered in most countries by state modernization
programs that are in their second or third generation and
are thereby becoming a stable institutional framework
for any public administration transformation. Most of
these programs rely on significant financial and technical
support from the American Development Bank and, to a
lesser extent, the World Bank.
While maintaining a primary focus on the
efficiency and effectiveness of public administration,
these state modernization programs are actually a
widespread call for transparency in the public sector.
The Latinobarómetro annual report continues to
express concern about the future sustainability of
some democracies in the region for two main reasons.2
First, a large proportion of citizens wait eternally for the
economic benefits of democracy to arrive. Second, high
levels of corruption permanently call into question the
credibility of public institutions and those in command of
them.
At the beginning of the century, information and
communication technologies (ICTs) began to make a
serious breakthrough in all areas of Latin American
society. That magical combination of telecommunications
and computing, manifested in the Internet, began to
demonstrate its huge potential—not only by enriching

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 127

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

the more creative entrepreneurs but also by touching on
every area of daily life, transforming it forever.
Al Gore, the former vice president of the United
States, deserves credit for making a big push to
introduce ICTs in the US government, showing countries
throughout the world how this can be done.
In the 1990s, when the Washington Consensus
preached trade liberalization, financial market openness,
market-driven currency exchange rates, tax reforms,
and other well-known economic policy prescriptions to
Latin America, ideas about the new public management
(NPM) methods also appeared in the region. Although
the countries that followed the NPM creed were left with
a network of autonomous institutions responsible for
certain government services and some successful public
service outsourcing processes, the public management
system in the region remained largely over-regulated and
process-focused. As a consequence, the importance of
results and efficiency never were recognized. Several of
the government-controlled autonomous institutions that
provide water, electricity, or telephony services still in
operation in the region illustrate this trend of the 1990s.
The described context in Latin American countries
presents a scenario in which one of the theories
developed by Douglas Holmes on the “Internet effect”
in the public sector is particularly relevant.3 According to
this theory, the Internet comes to public administration
as a tool that invites people to re-think and, above all,
one that creates excitement in a sector characterized by
conservatism and boredom.
Quite soon the term e-government, popularized
by the Clinton administration in the mid-1990s, found
its Spanish version as e-gobierno in Latin America.
The term and what it represents was widely adopted
and began to impact the functioning of government.
However, adopting is far from embracing. During the
second half of the 1990s, we see mere flirtations with
e-government in Latin America through isolated actions,
but no evidence of generalized use.
Analyzing these early forays into e-government by
Latin American countries with the privileged lens granted
by time passed, we can classify these early attempts
as reasonably successful and essential to the further
development of e-government in the region. In Chile,
during the administration of President Eduardo Frei
(1994–2000), the first strategic documents on the use
of ICTs to improve the competitiveness of the country
in general and the functioning of the Chilean public
administration in particular were developed. In 1999,
Chile’s Internal Revenue System was one of the first
public institutions in Latin America to have an interactive
presence on the Internet, and 5 percent of its tax returns
were filed online that year.4
Around the same time, in 2000, under President
Andres Pastrana (1998–2002), Colombia launched
its national Agenda for Connectivity. In August of the

128 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

same year, the Agenda for Connectivity released the
Colombian State Portal, funded by the Presidential
Anti-Corruption Program. The Agenda for Connectivity
subsequently guided the progress of e-government in
the Andean country until it was renamed “Government
Online” and revised under President Alvaro Uribe.
Equally visionary in the use of new technologies
in the public sector was the government of Fernando
Henrique Cardoso (1995–2003) in Brazil. The SOCINFO
(Society + Information) program, launched in 1999,
not only laid the foundation for development of the
ICT industry in Brazil over the next decade, but also
was the starting point for regional pioneering projects
of e-government such as Receitanet (which allows
citizens to file and pay taxes online) and Comprasnet
(which manages government procurement through the
Internet). The use of ICTs in electoral processes in Brazil
would merit its own paper, since Brazil’s experience in
this area is recognized as one of the most advanced
in the world—the country allows all votes to be cast
electronically through over 400,000 electronic voting
machines.5
The pioneering steps taken by Chile, Colombia,
and Brazil were soon followed by Argentina, Mexico,
Peru, Uruguay, Panama, and others that began by using
the Internet as a means of interacting with their citizens
in areas related to tax collection, public procurement,
or customs. This is not surprising because, for those
looking for public investment in ICTs, the easy-to-sell
speech included concepts such as “more revenue
collection,” “lower expenses,” or, ideally, a combination
of both. In addition, the adoption of the Inter-American
Convention against Corruption in 1996 pushed
transparency to a central place in the political agenda
of the region, thereby increasing interest in any tool that
could support a more transparent management of public
resources.
Throughout the first decade of the 21st century,
every Latin American country made some effort to
advance e-government. However, many of these efforts
are characterized by their secondary place in the political
agenda and the lack of fulfillment they showed toward
some of their promised impact, particularly in terms of
usage of online services. Today, although many countries
have established appropriate institutional structures and
have set out their respective visions in comprehensive
plans, others remain working on their first plans and are
still seeking the appropriate institutional solution.
A quick glance at the website of the Network
on Electronic Government of Latin America and
the Caribbean (RED GEALC; www.redgealc.net), in
particular the different editions of the e-government
awards excelGOV,6 lets us conclude that the majority
of American countries have successfully implemented
numerous e-government solutions in all areas of public
administration. There is, therefore, a wealth of experience

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

from which to learn and a foundation on which to build a
plan for the next steps to accelerate progress.
Although the efforts made so far are commendable,
and those who have led from either the political or the
managerial sphere deserve the highest recognition from
their citizens, we live in a global world where frequently
one needs to run in order to remain in the same place.
Indexes, global studies, and rankings related to the
use of ICTs in the public sector indicate that, although
most of Latin America trotted toward a knowledgebased society, some countries in Asia and Europe were
galloping.
In the second half of the first decade of this
century, a group of Latin American countries followed
in the footsteps of those pioneers of e-government to
emerge as leaders and show the region that, although
in the discipline of e-government there is no recipe
that guarantees positive results, there are some good
practices that seem to lead to success. We consider
three of these countries in the sections that follow:
Colombia, Uruguay, and Panama.
THE PATH TAKEN BY COLOMBIA
Colombia had been one of the close followers of the
pioneers, but it lost traction during the transition from
President Pastrana to President Uribe. It is now regaining
that traction under the leadership of President Santos.
Colombia took its first steps in e-government in an
encouraging fashion. First, the country undertook an
exercise of reflection and strategizing at a high political
level that resulted in the document CONPES 3072
(National Council for Economic and Social Policy),7
which—as early as 1999—included an introduction with
the following paragraph, remarkable for its time because
of its vision of the far-reaching nature of ICTs:
Information Technologies are tools that
enable the development of a new economy
[E-conomía], the construction of a more
modern and efficient National State, universal
access to information, and the acquisition and
effective use of knowledge—all these building
blocks to the development of a modern society
[author’s translation].
The Internet had not yet exploded, smart phones
had not even been imagined, and the founder of
Facebook was still in high school when the government
of Colombia talked about the e-economy, the connection
of ICTs, the construction of a modern state, and the
acquisition and use of knowledge. Fourteen years ago,
this was quite a vision for policymakers in Latin America.
This strategic document, which incorporates the
first Colombian Agenda for Connectivity as an annex,
was followed a few months later by Presidential Directive
02, signed by President Andres Pastrana. This directive

became one of the first strategic documents related to
the knowledge-based society in the region, emphasizing
the purpose of the Agenda and saying in part:
The National Government has designed the
Agenda for Connectivity as a state policy,
which seeks to expand the use of information
technology in Colombia and thereby increase
the competitiveness of the productive sector,
modernize public institutions and socialize
access to information [author’s translation].
During President Pastrana’s administration, the
Presidential Program for ICT Development and the
Colombian Government Portal were also launched.
In the early years of President Alvaro Uribe’s
administration (2002–10), the focus was on bringing
some institutional order to the management of
knowledge-based society initiatives and providing human
and financial resources for the Agenda for Connectivity.
By this time, the Agenda had become state policy.
The government under President Uribe maintained
the Agenda and strengthened its link to the National
Development Plan 2003–2006, which validated and
reaffirmed it, making it a driving force for fundamental
elements of socioeconomic progress such as education,
health, safety, and local development.
In addition, President Uribe showed his commitment
to the advancement of ICTs in the country with the
signing of two decrees: Decree 3816 of 2003 established
the Intersectoral Council for Policies and Management
of Information for Public Administration. This decree
became a key element for the approval of resources for
the Agenda for Connectivity as well as for the adoption
of interoperability standards within the Colombian
government. Decree 1151, issued in 2008, launched
an updated view of e-government in Colombia—the
Government Online Strategy—along with a set of goals
to be achieved by all branches of government, as well as
a timetable and a mechanism for monitoring them.
The arrival of President Juan Manuel Santos gave
a definite boost to Colombia in its progress in the use
of ICTs in the country as a whole and in the government
in particular. Building on the accumulated experience
and giving continuity to the team that had been working
in the Colombian Government Online Strategy for
years, the Ministry of Information and Communication
Technologies launched the Vive Digital (Live Digital)
strategy.8 In just two years, Vive Digital achieved
remarkable results,9 making Colombia the winner of the
well-known Global System for Mobile Communications
Association (GSMA) Government Leadership Award
given during the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona in
February 2012.
In this environment, Colombia’s rise in the most
widely used e-government rankings—such as the

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 129

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

Figure 1: Colombia’s position in the UNDESA E-Government rankings, 2003–12

60

E-Government rank

50

40

30

20
2003

2004

2005

2008

2010

2012

Source: UNDESA E-Government Survey, available at http://www.unpan.org/egovkb/global_reports/08report.htm.

Networked Readiness Index (NRI) published by the
World Economic Forum and the E-Government
Survey published by the United Nations Department
for Economic and Social Affairs (UNDESA)—is not
surprising. As shown in Figure 1, during the period
2005–11 Colombia experienced an upward trend that
positions it as one of the leaders in the region in the
use of ICTs the modernization of public administration.
The country moves from 57th position in 2003 to 43rd
position in 2012, going as high as 31st place in 2010.
Colombia’s experience provides some important
lessons for other countries that are still defining their
approach to e-government:
1.

2.

Political support must be strong. In Colombia,
the introduction of ICTs in the society in general
and the public sector in particular has always
counted on strong political support at the highest
level, from the first directive signed by President
Pastrana in 1999 to the launching of Vive Digital
by President Santos in 2010.
The use of ICTs must be state policy. The
continuity of plans, initiatives, and teams
throughout the last few years underscores the
importance of the principle stated in the first ICT
strategic document released in 1999, which set
up the Agenda for Connectivity as a state policy
that seeks to expand the use of ICTs in Colombia
to increase the competitiveness of the productive

130 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

sector, modernize public institutions, and socialize
access to information.
3.

Financial resources must be sufficient. Since
its launching in 1999, the Agenda for Connectivity
has had the financial resources needed to carry
out its planned initiatives. Initially, the Agenda
depended heavily on international financial
cooperation, as evidenced by the fact that it was
created under a United Nations Development
Programme Transparency project, but gradually
gained its place in the general state budget.
Under the leadership of the Minister of Information
and Communication Technologies, Diego Molano
Vega, the government of Colombia announced
ICT investments of US$750 million per year (5.5
billion Colombian pesos for four years),10 thanks in
part to partnerships with the private sector, which
will contribute 40 percent of the total amount.

4.

E-government must reflect and respond to the
concerns of citizens. Colombia soon discovered
that it was essential to focus on the citizen to
succeed in e-government. The country became a
pioneer of the concept of apropiación—a Spanish
comprehensive concept that refers to access,
adoption, usage, and sense of ownership—and
created an office dedicated to this matter within
the Government Online program. This citizen
adoption-ownership vision is understood as the

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

need to listen to citizens; to communicate with
them before, during, and after the implementation
of e-government solutions; to seek and attract
them to e-government through modern
marketing tools; and to ensure a minimum level of
connectivity and a basic knowledge of how to use
the tools.
5.

Cooperation across nations enhances
progress. According to Roberto López, the
general manager of the regional e-government
network RED GEALC, during the past 10 years,
Colombia has been the most active participant
of all countries in Latin America in the network’s
activities. Colombia has requested the most
information, participated in more expert
exchanges, presented the most candidates for
the excelGOV awards, and been involved in more
working groups and research activities than
any other country in the network. Throughout
this decade, Colombia has learned from
other countries’ experiences in order to move
faster and more successfully along the path of
e-government. The website of the RED GEALC,
in the horizontal cooperation area,11 illustrates this
idea with specific activities.

6.

Institutional and workforce capacity must
be excellent. The Colombian government has
conducted one of the most important efforts in
Latin America in building institutional capacity
through the training of its human resources.
Through agreements with the OAS, CINTEL,
SENA, universities, and other institutions,
the government program has trained nearly
200,000 civil servants in different areas related to
e-government.

THE ROUTE TAKEN BY URUGUAY
The Oriental Republic of Uruguay has demonstrated
that it is not necessary to be one of the economic
powerhouses of a region to take big steps toward
integrating the country, particularly the government, into
a knowledge-based society.
Uruguay took its first steps toward e-government
early, with the creation of the National Committee for
Information Society. In 2000, the issuance of Decree
225, signed by President Jorge Batlle (2000–05),
launched the Uruguay in Network initiative. But
e-government really took off in the Southern Cone
country during the administration of President Tabaré
Vázquez (2005–10).
Although the country’s e-government portal was
launched and efforts to bring connectivity to schools
began in the early 2000s, it was the creation of the
Agency for Electronic Government and Information
Society (AGESIC) in 2007 that provided the basis for

Uruguay’s recent rapid progress in e-government.12
AGESIC is physically near the Office of the President,
and it became the institutional space for careful strategic
thinking focused on the digital agenda of the country,
as reflected in the Uruguay Digital Agenda 2008–10
(Agenda Digital Uruguay is now in its second, 2011–15,
version).13 This document is a comprehensive exercise
that focuses on the building blocks of e-government,
establishing elements such as a public key infrastructure,
an interoperability platform, a computer emergency
readiness team (CERT), and a mechanism for online
payments. It also sets up operational initiatives
that introduced Uruguay to the knowledge-based
international arena. Among these initiatives is the Plan
Ceibal14—which was awarded the highly regarded
excelGOV Prize 2009 by the RED GEALC.
These early achievements of AGESIC soon acquired
international visibility, and were probably one reason
that Uruguay became home to the first meeting of
Ministers and High Authorities of Electronic Government
in Latin America and the Caribbean.15 This meeting
was organized by the OAS in collaboration with the
International Development Bank and the International
Development Research Center as well as AGESIC itself.
Colombia, as noted earlier, is the most internationally
oriented of the RED GEALC network countries, and
Uruguay certainly comes second on the list of those
looking for international experiences; the country is
always ready to learn and share knowledge beyond its
own borders.
President José “Pepe” Mujica not only underscored
the importance of ICTs for Uruguay’s development, but
also enhanced support for AGESIC. President Mujica
himself participated in the international e-government
event “Towards an Integrated State” in May 2011, giving
a speech where he publicly reiterated his presidency’s
support of the e-government initiatives led by AGESIC
and defended the principle of putting ICTs at the service
of citizens and humanizing the current technologyoriented society.
Along with this support, AGESIC counted on two
additional elements that help to explain Uruguay’s
recent success in the field of e-government. First,
political support was reflected in the program’s financial
resources. Since its inception, AGESIC’s budget allowed
it to expand from 30 employees in 2007 to 160 in
late 2011, and to lead numerous initiatives—such as
the e-Government Interoperability Platform and the
REDUY communications infrastructure initiative16—with
its own financial resources. Moreover, the Uruguayan
government entrusted the leadership of AGESIC to
an executive director who offers a deep knowledge of
public administration and a business profile linked to the
field of technology. This combination of qualifications in
the most senior AGESIC executive, Jose Clastornik, has

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 131

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

Table 1: The evolution of Uruguay in the Networked Readiness Index rankings, 2005–12
Year

2006–2007

2007–2008

2008–2009

2009–2010

2010–2011

2012

Rank

60

65

65

57

45

44

Source: World Economic Forum, The Global Information Technology Report, various years.

proven instrumental to both the political and operational
success of the institution.
A remarkable aspect of the Uruguayan progress
toward a knowledge-based society is the significant
role played by Uruguayan businessmen linked to ICTs.
Among its members, the Uruguayan Chamber of
Information Technologies (CUTI) has many small- and
medium-sized Uruguayan enterprises with regional
presence and recognition.17 These companies have
elevated Uruguayan technology exports from US$50
million in 2000 to US$225 million in 2010.18 This
availability of advanced knowledge and technology
solutions within the country has undoubtedly been a
catalyst for expanding Uruguayan e-government.
Table 1 shows Uruguay’s path to success, as seen
in The Global Information Technology Report 2012
published by the World Economic Forum. The country
moves from 65th in the world in 2005 to 44th in 2012.
Uruguay’s experience offers some lessons, listed below,
that can benefit other countries currently implementing
or planning to implement initiatives in this area:
1.

Presidential proximity is crucial. In addition to
political support at the highest level, proximity to
the president is essential for managing the dayto-day activities of e-government. In this sense,
the functional independence from the presidency
has been instrumental to the success of AGESIC
managing the operational portion of its agenda,
as has been AGESIC’s formal link to the Office
of the President through the Deputy Secretary of
the Office of the President, who is a member of
AGESIC’s board.

2.

Excellent, well-qualified leaders are essential.
Overcoming difficult challenges requires leaders
with the best credentials. In the case of AGESIC,
having a chief executive officer with business
experience, deep ICT industry knowledge, and
a history of working in public service has been a
key factor in its success.

3.

Local ICT businesses must be nurtured.
The availability of a well-developed local ICT
industry has been a cornerstone in Uruguayan
progress toward a knowledge-based society.
It has provided easy and immediate access to
knowledgeable advice and qualified professionals

132 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

to implement elements ranging from design to
deployment and subsequent operation. By being
local, these qualified ICT professionals not only
can act faster but also can understand the local
culture better, thereby increasing the chances of
success in the implementation of e-government
projects.
THE WAY OF PANAMA
Although President Mireya Moscoso (1999–2004)’s
mandate created the e-Panama National Commission
in October 2001, aside from the national strategic
document Agenda for Connectivity and some sectoral
progress—especially in the form of the introduction
of ICTs in education—Panama made no outstanding
advances during this period. The e-Panama
Commission, which at the time constituted a good
planning exercise, never had the necessary financial
resources to achieve the goals proposed. According to
media reports, the resources available to the commission
did not exceed US$1 million in two years of operation.19
In 2004, then-new President Martin Torrijos (2004–
09) provided an important push for ICTs in Panama.
Even before taking office, President Torrijos showed
clear signs that he attached great importance to ICTs
as tools for state modernization. Just 30 days after
taking office, he signed Decree 102, which created the
Secretariat for Government Innovation. This decree
provides the secretariat with broad powers to advance
the knowledge-based society, both in the country in
general and in the Panamanian government in particular.
In practical terms, it raised the matter to a ministerial
level, because the secretary reports directly to the
president, thus endowing the Secretary for Government
Innovation with a significant level of access to and
dialogue with cabinet ministers. Projects such as the
Digital Agenda, PanamáCompra, PanamaTramita, and
others that allow Panama to advance its modernization
efforts were brought forward, setting the basis for the
development of the information society in Panama.
The government of President Ricardo Martinelli
(2009–present) made a smooth transition from the
former Secretariat for Government Innovation to what
became the Authority for Government Innovation (AIG)
by passing Act 65 in October 2009. Led by a general
manager who reports directly to the president, the AIG
has enhanced international cooperation, particularly with

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

Table 2: The evolution of Panama in the Networked Readiness Index, 2005–12
Year

2005

2006–2007

2007–2008

2008–2009

2009–2010

2010–2011

2012

Rank

66

65

64

66

58

60

57

Source: World Economic Forum, The Global Information Technology Report, various years.

the Republic of Korea, and has increased collaboration
with the private sector to compensate for limited financial
resources.
The AIG has retained those aspects of the
secretariat that were considered to be functioning
well, including some members of the team; performed
a strategic review; and planned to refocus its efforts
and provide a renewed push to lift Panama’s score in
the e-government rankings of the NRI and UNDESA’s
Survey. Under the leadership of Eduardo Jaen, the
AIG emphasizes two key goals on which Panama will
build its final leap to e-government. The first is to bring
connectivity to every municipality in the country. The
second is to put the management of public resources
across the government in order through the modern
solution of government resource planning (GRP). The
Paperless Panama project, the 311 Citizen Service
Center, and the municipal e-government program MuNet
Panama are some of the initiatives that, in little more than
two years, have given Panama international recognition
as well as helped it progress in the previously mentioned
e-government rankings.20
This progress, shown in Table 2, can be attributed
to the following reasons and might be a valuable
reference for other countries:
1.

Extraordinary political support at the highest
level. As discussed above, the last three
presidents of Panama have included ICTs both in
their speeches and actions, passing legislation
and launching initiatives. President Martinelli
especially emphasized the importance of ICTs
during his speech at the 67th United Nations
General Assembly in September 2012, presenting
them as key instruments to accomplish the
Millennium Development Goals.

2.

A continuous and participatory planning
effort. The last of these efforts, the AIG Strategic
Plan 2010–14,21 shows a clear vision not limited
by the usual need for results in the short term.
Long-term initiatives such as infrastructure
deployment projects and organizational culture
transformation are included among other actions
of more immediate impact such as e-safety and
the municipal e-government program.

3.

Legal independence and functioning
autonomy. Although AIG’s position in the

organizational chart of the government of Panama
is near the Office of the President, it is also its
own legal entity. This independence provides
an important operational freedom that has been
instrumental in establishing alliances and agility in
project implementation. This autonomy became
very instrumental in attracting Eduardo Jaen as
general manager. He brought not only a business
view to the management of ICTs in government
but also the valuable experience of having been
IBM’s general manager for Central America.
COMMON ELEMENTS: THE TRIANGLE OF
SUCCESS
The recent experiences of Colombia, Uruguay, and
Panama confirm the theories of those who research
e-government and the suspicions of those who work
every day in this field. Although there is no magic formula
for success in advancing ICTs in public administration,
those who do succeed share some common ingredients.
The first of these common ingredients is the political
support of the highest authority in the country. In all
three cases analyzed, the support of the president has
been instrumental in mobilizing other critical elements,
such as legislative changes, institutional strategy, and
budgetary allocation.
Another common ingredient in these e-government
success stories is the attention paid to the qualification
of human resources. This component has two equally
relevant sides: the leader and the team. Although they
have not done it alone, Jose Clastornik (Uruguay),
Eduardo Jaén (Panama), and Diego Molano Vega
(Colombia) share a common characteristic that became
crucial for the advancement of e-government in their
respective countries. All three, for different reasons, are
able to communicate directly with the highest authority
in the government and know how to interact in their
country’s political sphere. At the same time, they are
each very knowledgeable about ICTs, after having had
successful careers in the private sector.
A third factor—usually a consequence of the
previous two—is the availability of financial resources. In
recent years, Latin America has seen too frequently how
sound political speeches on the subject of ICTs failed to
change the life of any citizen and never moved beyond
a nice planning document adorning the bookshelf of
some ministerial office or multilateral organization. On
many occasions, this is because of one fundamental

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 133

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

Table 3: E-government Office annual budget, Uruguay (2008–12)

Annual budget (US dollars)

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

9,231,536

7,485,041

9,966,243

15,165,654

16,988,859

Source: AGESIC, available at www.agesic.org.uy.

reason: they did not “put their money where their mouth
is,” as the famous saying goes. In those countries where
ICTs do not have their own line in the national budget,
years will continue to go by without solid ground being
established for future socioeconomic progress.
The budgets of other countries, such as Uruguay,
ensure that ICTs have sufficient financial resources by
allocating specific amounts to e-government in their
budgets. Table 3 shows the evolution of investment in
e-government in Uruguay over the last five years.
OTHER FACTORS CONTRIBUTING TO SUCCESS
Although slightly less relevant and less evident than the
three elements discussed above, some other aspects
that have accelerated the progress of e-government in
the countries studied are worth mentioning.
One such element is the search for international
points of reference. As pointed out earlier, the organized
effort to study, understand, and learn from what others
have done, along with the initiative needed to visit
countries that are more advanced and invite them to
help, have been part of the corporate and political
culture of the three countries studied. Colombia,
Uruguay, and Panama have made this idea a dogma.
They have participated in numerous instances of
international relations and cooperation and have taken
full advantage of the experience of others.
Another important aspect that should be considered
is concerned with the ICT-related business capacity
installed in the country. Colombia very cleverly used its
Vive Digital push to generate an emerging entrepreneurial
sector in the field of ICTs. These entrepreneurs were
able to grow because of the investment efforts of the
government; this, in turn, ensures that Colombia has
the local knowledge needed to progress.22 Uruguay
has enjoyed a thriving and exporting technology sector
for the past 15 years. And Panama, with its enviable
geographical location, also has a large number of ICT
multinationals operating within its borders.
Finally, in all three countries a certain element of
continuity has been maintained in both their plans and
their working teams. In some cases, the ruling party
itself changed; in other cases, the ruling party remained
in power. But in all three countries, a change of party or
president did not mean a radical break in approach or
policy. In all three, many members of the team remained
in place and the majority of initiatives were continued,
and the changes provided an opportunity to review the

134 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

strategic approach, introduce new projects, and adapt
the priority areas to ever-changing citizens’ needs and
technology opportunities.
THE CHALLENGES AHEAD
All governments in the region—those more advanced in
providing e-government and those lagging behind—face
a similar challenge to remain competitive in the global
e-government arena: connectivity. According to the
last NRI,23 published by the World Economic Forum in
2012, in the Latin American region, only Uruguay and
Chile are ranked among the top 50 countries worldwide
for broadband Internet subscriptions. Uruguay ranked
47th on this indicator with 10.9 percent penetration and
Chile ranked 50th with 10.5 percent. The Netherlands,
ranked 1st in the world in the 2012 NRI for broadband
Internet subscriptions, had a penetration rate almost
four times those of the Latin American top countries. In
mobile broadband subscriptions, the panorama does not
improve much. Uruguay (ranked 42nd) and Chile (45th)
had rates of 9.7 percent and 9.0 percent, respectively.
Ecuador was in 47th place, with a rate of 8.3 percent.
Korea, the top country in this indicator, showed a mobile
broadband subscription rate of 78 percent.
As Chile discovered during its early e-government
efforts, merely making modern e-government solutions
available to the citizens does not guarantee that
citizens will use them. Colombia, an avid observer of
international experiences, quickly realized that wellplanned marketing and active promotion under the
umbrella of an “Appropriation Office” would help to
reach out to those who are connected. The problem is
that, as the above-mentioned figures show, broadband
connectivity still benefits a minority of the population. It
should not be a surprise, then, that the main objective
of the latest Colombian ICT strategy, Vive Digital, is to
multiply the number of broadband connections in the
country by four, with strong emphasis on low-income
households.
Closing the connectivity gap between Latin
American and developed countries will require the
deployment of a great deal of infrastructure throughout
the region. Regardless of the method chosen (optic
fiber, dark fiber, satellite, whitespaces, etc., and their
multiple combinations), the necessary investments are
challenging. If the governments in Latin America are
to take seriously the connectivity gap and the hurdle it
poses for the socioeconomic progress of the region, they

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

will need to work with the private sector and put in place
decisive policy actions. For these big investments to
become a reality, financial contributions from the private
sector will be critical. In addition, some minimum policy
commitments will have to be made and implemented.
At a minimum, legislation must be passed that attracts
investment into the sector by opening it to competition,
establishes the necessary investment protection, creates
a framework for public-private partnerships, and makes
good use of all the radio spectrum available. The more
ambitious countries, such as Colombia under the Vive
Digital, will even set up tax breaks for the imports of
computing equipment.
Even before the arrival of the Internet, the region
suffered a connectivity gap between those with access
to phone service and those without it. In order to close
this gap, beginning in 1994, programs of universal
access funds for telecommunications proliferated in
Latin America. In general, these programs are funded
by charging a percentage (between 0 and 1 percent) of
telecommunication companies´ revenues.
Leaving the enormous Brazil fund aside, today close
to US$1 billion is available in the bank accounts of these
universal access funds. It is paradoxical that the region
keeps losing the information society race partly because
of its low broadband connectivity at the same time that
it sits on these valuable resources, which should be
devoted to connectivity-related initiatives. These funds,
however, will not be nearly enough to close the digital
divide that separates Latin America from the most
advanced countries in the world, especially because
those advanced countries continue to pour effort and
support into initiatives that promote and expand ICTs.
For example, last year Australia launched its National
Broadband Network initiative.24 This country, which has
a smaller surface area than Brazil, plans on investing
US$35 billion (US$8 billion of which will be contributed
by the private sector) to provide access to broadband
connection to all Australians by 2015.
An additional challenge—that will grow in
importance as e-government advances—is the issue of
interoperability,25 both domestic and international. No
e-government solution can bring efficiency to public
administration if it is not interoperable. If a solution
is designed outside an interoperability framework, it
will probably need to rely on the ability of the citizen
to provide data and documents, even if online, that
are already in the hands of another section of the
government. In most Latin American countries,
interoperability is left to the will of the authorities involved
in any specific public procedure or service. Countries
such as Brazil, Chile, Colombia, and México—although
they have the required infrastructure in place and have
defined the interoperability standards—are still struggling
to get the necessary commitments from all actors
involved.

The interoperability problem becomes bigger when
you consider cross-border situations. E-government
will be seriously limited in its ability to deliver on its
promises if applications and databases are not able
to communicate among themselves outside national
borders. Customs procedures, health services, security,
judicial collaboration, natural disaster cooperation,
international transportation, and many other services
require international interoperability if they are going to
provide citizens with efficient services. The RED GEALC
network has participated in discussions and research
on regional interoperability over the past five years,
but this is just a tiny light in an uncertain scenario. The
exchanges have taken place at a technical level, but
interoperability has not yet gained ground in the regional
political agenda. Given the difficulty of the topic and
its relevance for a region that wants to take the most
possible advantage of e-government, political leaders
should start paying attention to it as soon as possible.
Despite these significant challenges, e-government
is an unstoppable reality. Arguably it will continue to
grow in Latin America because it has already shown
positive impact in the lives of Latin American citizens.
The rankings mentioned are merely an objective
mechanism allowing comparison among countries and
analysis of their evolution. The relevance lies in what is
behind the rankings. Behind Colombia´s position are
citizens who, thanks to ICTs, participate more than ever
before in the design of public policy. More than 50,000
Colombians participated in the design of the National
Educational Plan 2006–15. Uruguay´s position in the
rankings is the reflection of the satisfaction experienced
by the parents of the 45,000 newborns per year who
can register them electronically immediately after they
are born, providing them with the right at the center of
many human rights—identity. Behind Panama´s rankings
are entrepreneurs who used to need five days to set up
a company; now, thanks to PanamaEmprende, they can
do it in 15 minutes.
MOVING FORWARD
Two forces will combine to keep pushing the
advancement of e-government in Latin America. First,
people who taste the flavor of the efficiency of the
online world through the private sector often become
anxious demanders for the same efficiency in their
governments. Many Latin Americans are already enjoying
the convenience of online purchasing or banking, and
want their governments to imitate that type of interaction.
Second, all governments face the challenge of attending
to the needs of a growing population with ever-increasing
demands under a tight budget that rarely expands. This
situation generates an urgent plea to make the most
out of every dollar managed by the government—also
known as efficiency. Every plan to bring efficiency into
government will have ICTs as a key supporting tool.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 135

2.3: E-Government in Latin America

NOTES
1 Hornbeck 2013.
2 See www.latinobarometro.org for information about the
organization Latinobarómetro and its annual report; see also The
Economist 2003.
3 Holmes 2001.
4 See http://home.sii.cl/.
5 See the Superior Electoral Court website at http://www.tse.jus.br/
internet/ingles/index.htm.
6 Information about these awards can be found on the RED GEALC
website at http://www.redgealc.net/premios-excelgob-2009/
content/3711/en/.
7 The CONPES 3072 document is available at http://www.dnp.gov.
co/CONPES.aspx.
8 See http://vivedigital.gov.co/.
9 See http://www.mintic.gov.co/index.php/vive-digital/logros.
10 See http://www.mintic.gov.co/index.php/vive-digital/plan/
preguntas-frecuentes.
11 See RED GEALC’s “Horizontal Cooperation Fund,” available
at http://www.redgealc.net/horizontal-cooperation-fund/
content/2024/en/.
12 See http://www.agesic.gub.uy/.
13 For details of the Agenda Digital Uruguay, see http://www.agesic.
gub.uy/innovaportal/v/1443/1/agesic/mapa_de_ruta:_agenda_
digital_uruguay_2011-2015.html.
14 For further information about Plan Ceibal, see http://www.ceibal.
edu.uy/Paginas/Inicio.aspx.
15 For details about the meeting, which took place in March,
2009, see http://www.redgealc.org/montevideo-marzo-2009/
contenido/2673/es/.
16 See http://www.agesic.gub.uy/innovaportal/v/518/1/agesic/
plataforma_de_gobierno_electronico_del_estado_uruguayo.
html?menuderecho=3 for details about the e-Government
Interoperability Platform; see http://www.agesic.gub.uy/
innovaportal/v/504/1/agesic/red_uy.html?menuderecho=3 for
details about the REDUY communications infrastructure initiative.
17 Information about CUTI can be found at http://www.cuti.org.uy/.

The Economist. 2003. “The Latinobarómetro Poll: The Stubborn Survival
of Frustrated Democrats.” The Economist, October 30. Available at
http://www.latinobarometro.org/docs/The_Economist_31-10-03.
pdf.
Gnius, Juan B. 2012. “Inversión y Regulación: Una Aproximación
Plural.” Santiago de Chile: Signals Consulting. Available at http://
signalsconsultinglatinamerica.blogspot.com/2012/03/inversion-yregulacion-una-aproximacion.html.
Guerra, D. 2004. “Dejan sin efecto funciones de la Comisión e-Panamá.”
La Prensa, September 30. Available at http://mensual.prensa.com/
mensual/contenido/2004/09/30/hoy/negocios/38959.html.
Holmes, D. 2001. eGov: e-business Strategies for Government. London:
Nicholas Brealey Publishing.
Hornbeck, J. 2013. Argentina´s Defaulted Sovereign Debt: Dealing
with the “Holdouts.” CRS Report for Congress, February 6.
Congressional Research Service. Available at http://www.fas.org/
sgp/crs/row/R41029.pdf.
Oriental Republic of Uruguay. 2011. Uruguay XXI: Promoción de
Inversiones y Exportadiones. Montevideo: Oriental Republic of
Uruguay. Available at http://www.uruguayxxi.gub.uy/wp-content/
uploads/2012/07/Outsourcing-Uruguay-XXI-Oct-2011.pdf.
RED GEALC. excelGOV Awards 2009 catalogue. Montevideo,
2009. Available at http://redgealc.org/premios-excelgob-2009/
contenido/3711/es/.
UNDESA (United Nations Department of Economic and Social Affairs).
Various years. e-Government Surveys, 2003–12. New York: United
Nations Public Administration Network.
World Economic Forum. 2006. World Economic Forum. The Global
Information Technology Report 2005–2006: Leveraging ICT for
Development. Hampshire: Palgrave Macmillan.
———. 2007. The Global Information Technology Report 2006–2007:
Connecting to the Networked Economy. Hampshire: Palgrave
Macmillan.
———. 2008. The Global Information Technology Report 2007–2008:
Fostering Innovation through Networked Readiness. Hampshire:
Palgrave Macmillan.
———. 2009. The Global Information Technology Report 2008–2009:
Mobility in a Networked World. Geneva: World Economic Forum.
———. 2010. The Global Information Technology Report 2009–2010: ICT
for Sustainability.Geneva: World Economic Forum.
———. 2011. The Global Information Technology Report 2010–2011:
Transformations 2.0. Geneva: World Economic Forum.

18 Oriental Republic of Uruguay 2011.
19 Guerra 2004.
20 For details about all these projects, see http://www.innovacion.
gob.pa/proyectos.

———. 2012. The Global Information Technology Report 2011–2012:
Living in a Hyperconnected World. Geneva: World Economic
Forum.

21 See http://www.innovacion.gob.pa/descargas/AIG-PLANESTRATEGICO-2010-2014.pdf.
22 See http://www.mintic.gov.co/index.php/vive-digital/iniciativas.
23 To download The Global Information Technology Report or view
and interact with the data platform, see http://reports.weforum.
org/global-information-technology-2012/#=.
24 For information about Australia’s Department of Broadband,
Communications and the Digital Economy, see http://www.dbcde.
gov.au/broadband.
25 A complex and complete definition of interoperability beyond the
ICT field can be found at www.wikipedia.org. For the purposes
of this chapter, we refer to interoperability as the capacity of
applications to communicate and exchange data within and
across borders.

REFERENCES
Cáceres. R. B. 2011. Uso de las Fondos de Acceso Universal de
Telecomunicaciones en Países de América Latina y el Caribe.
Santiago de Chile: UNECLAC.

136 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Part 3
Country/Economy Profiles

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

How to Read the Country/Economy Profiles

The Country/Economy Profiles section presents a profile
for each of the 144 economies covered in The Global
Information Technology Report 2013. Each profile
summarizes an economy’s performance in the various
dimensions of the Networked Readiness Index (NRI).

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Albania
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 83 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 68 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................84 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 102 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 66 .....4.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................72 ....4.6
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 79 .....3.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 66 .....5.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 56 .....5.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................85 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 84 .....2.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 79 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 95 .....3.8

PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS
The first section of the profile presents the economy’s
overall performance in the NRI, along with its
performance in the NRI’s four components and ten
pillars. The economy’s rank (out of 144 economies) and
score (on a 1-to-7 scale) are reported.
On the radar chart to the right of the table, a blue
line plots the economy’s score on each of the ten
pillars. The black line represents the average score of all
economies in the income group to which the economy
under review belongs. The country classification by
income group is defined by the World Bank and reflects
the situation as of November 2012. Note that the two
high-income groups in this classification, High income:
OECD and High income: non-OECD, were merged into a
single group for the purpose of the analysis.
THE NETWORKED READINESS INDEX IN DETAIL
This section presents an economy’s performance in
each of the 54 indicators composing the NRI. The
indicators are organized by pillar. The numbering of
the variables matches that of the data tables in the
next section of the Report, which provide descriptions,
rankings, and scores for all the indicators. The indicators
derived from the 2011 and 2012 editions of the World
Economic Forum’s Executive Opinion Survey are
identified by an asterisk (*). These indicators are always
measured on a 1-to-7 scale (where 1 and 7 correspond
to the worst and best possible outcomes, respectively).
For more information on the Executive Opinion Survey
and a detailed explanation of how scores are computed,
please refer to Chapter 1.3 of The Global Competitiveness
Report 2012–2013, available for free on the World
Economic Forum website at www.weforum.org/gcr.
For those indicators not derived from the World
Economic Forum’s Executive Opinion Survey, the scale
is reported next to the title. The section “Technical Notes
and Sources” at the end of this Report provides further

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................89 ....3.3

Albania

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 88 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 81 .....3.5

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................88 ......... 3.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................81 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ....................................121 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....98 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....93 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ........................103 ......... 3.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........76 .......... 75
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................25 ........ 390

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................106 ......... 4.4
Venture capital availability* ...............................132 ......... 1.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................73 ....... 38.7
No. days to start a business ................................8 ............ 4
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*...........................128 ......... 3.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........57 ....... 43.9
Quality of management schools* ........................61 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............46 ......... 3.9

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................87 .. 1,648.4
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................65 ....... 19.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................87 ....... 13.7
Accessibility of digital content* .........................108 ......... 4.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................100 ....... 0.39
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..43 ..... 26.37
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......88 ....... 1.69

RANK /144

VALUE

6th pillar: Individual usage
6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................90 ....... 96.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................57 ....... 49.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............95 ....... 15.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................85 ....... 13.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......83 ......... 4.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........78 ......... 8.8
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................66 ......... 5.5

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................80 ......... 4.6
Capacity for innovation* ...................................128 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............88 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ...................n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-consumer Internet use* .................n/a ......... n/a
Extent of staff training* .......................................36 ......... 4.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................70 ......... 4.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....87 ....... 0.42
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*.......................n/a ......... n/a

9th pillar: Economic impacts
9.01 Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..93 ......... 4.1
9.02 ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
9.03 Impact of ICTss on new organizational models* .90 ......... 3.9
9.04 Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....106 ......... 3.7
Internet access in schools* ................................54 ......... 4.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................65 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................91 ....... 0.11

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................52 ......... 4.0
Quality of math & science education* .................40 ......... 4.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..63 ....... 90.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................58 ....... 95.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

142 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

details on each indicator, including its definition, method
of computation, and sources.
Note that for the sake of readability, the years
were omitted. However, the year of each data point is
indicated in the corresponding data table. For more
information on the framework and computation of the
NRI, refer to Chapter 1.1.
ONLINE DATA PORTAL
In complement to the analysis presented in this
Report, an online data portal can be accessed via
www.weforum.org/gitr. The platform offers a number
of analytical tools and visualizations, including sortable
rankings, scatter plots, bar charts, and maps, as well as
the possibility of downloading portions of the NRI dataset.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 139

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Index of Country/Economy Profiles

Country/Economy

Page

Country/Economy

Page

Country/Economy

Page

Country/Economy

Page

Albania

142

Egypt

178

Lesotho

214

Romania

250

Algeria

143

El Salvador

179

Liberia

215

Russian Federation

251

Argentina

144

Estonia

180

Libya

216

Rwanda

252

Armenia

145

Ethiopia

181

Lithuania

217

Saudi Arabia

253

Australia

146

Finland

182

Luxembourg

218

Senegal

254

Austria

147

France

183

Macedonia, FYR

219

Serbia

255

Azerbaijan

148

Gabon

184

Madagascar

220

Seychelles

256

Bahrain

149

Gambia, The

185

Malawi

221

Sierra Leone

257

Bangladesh

150

Georgia

186

Malaysia

222

Singapore

258

Barbados

151

Germany

187

Mali

223

Slovak Republic

259

Belgium

152

Ghana

188

Malta

224

Slovenia

260

Benin

153

Greece

189

Mauritania

225

South Africa

261

Bolivia

154

Guatemala

190

Mauritius

226

Spain

262

Bosnia and Herzegovina 155

Guinea

191

Mexico

227

Sri Lanka

263

Botswana

156

Guyana

192

Moldova

228

Suriname

264

Brazil

157

Haiti

193

Mongolia

229

Swaziland

265

Brunei Darussalam

158

Honduras

194

Montenegro

230

Sweden

266

Bulgaria

159

Hong Kong SAR

195

Morocco

231

Switzerland

267

Burkina Faso

160

Hungary

196

Mozambique

232

Taiwan, China

268

Burundi

161

Iceland

197

Namibia

233

Tajikistan

269

Cambodia

162

India

198

Nepal

234

Tanzania

270

Cameroon

163

Indonesia

199

Netherlands

235

Thailand

271

Canada

164

Iran, Islamic Rep.

200

New Zealand

236

Timor-Leste

272

Cape Verde

165

Ireland

201

Nicaragua

237

Trinidad and Tobago

273

Chad

166

Israel

202

Nigeria

238

Turkey

274

Chile

167

Italy

203

Norway

239

Uganda

275

China

168

Jamaica

204

Oman

240

Ukraine

276

Colombia

169

Japan

205

Pakistan

241

United Arab Emirates

277

Costa Rica

170

Jordan

206

Panama

242

United Kingdom

278

Côte d’Ivoire

171

Kazakhstan

207

Paraguay

243

United States

279

Croatia

172

Kenya

208

Peru

244

Uruguay

280

Cyprus

173

Korea, Rep.

209

Philippines

245

Venezuela

281

Czech Republic

174

Kuwait

210

Poland

246

Vietnam

282

Denmark

175

Kyrgyz Republic

211

Portugal

247

Yemen

283

Dominican Republic

176

Latvia

212

Puerto Rico

248

Zambia

284

Ecuador

177

Lebanon

213

Qatar

249

Zimbabwe

285

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Albania
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 83 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 68 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................84 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 102 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 66 .....4.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................72 ....4.6
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 79 .....3.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 66 .....5.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 56 .....5.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................85 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 84 .....2.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 79 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 95 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................89 ....3.3

Albania

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 88 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 81 .....3.5

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................88 ......... 3.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................81 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ....................................121 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....98 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....93 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ........................103 ......... 3.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........76 .......... 75
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................25 ........ 390

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................106 ......... 4.4
Venture capital availability* ...............................132 ......... 1.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................73 ....... 38.7
No. days to start a business ................................8 ............ 4
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*...........................128 ......... 3.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........57 ....... 43.9
Quality of management schools* ........................61 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............46 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................90 ....... 96.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................57 ....... 49.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............95 ....... 15.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................85 ....... 13.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......83 ......... 4.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........78 ......... 8.8
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................66 ......... 5.5

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................80 ......... 4.6
Capacity for innovation* ...................................128 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............88 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ...................n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-consumer Internet use* .................n/a ......... n/a
Extent of staff training* .......................................36 ......... 4.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................70 ......... 4.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....87 ....... 0.42
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*.......................n/a ......... n/a

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................87 .. 1,648.4
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................65 ....... 19.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................87 ....... 13.7
Accessibility of digital content* .........................108 ......... 4.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................100 ....... 0.39
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..43 ..... 26.37
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......88 ....... 1.69

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..93 ......... 4.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...90 ......... 3.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....106 ......... 3.7
Internet access in schools* ................................54 ......... 4.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................65 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................91 ....... 0.11

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................52 ......... 4.0
Quality of math & science education* .................40 ......... 4.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..63 ....... 90.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................58 ....... 95.9

142 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Algeria
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............131 ..2.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 118 .....3.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................143 ....2.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 141 .....2.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 143 .....2.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................96 ....4.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 119 .....2.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 64 .....5.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 101 .....4.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................140 ....2.4
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 100 .....2.5
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 144 .....2.1
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 139 .....2.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................142 ....2.1

Algeria

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 143 .....2.1
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 141 .....2.1

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................130 ......... 2.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................140 ......... 2.3
Judicial independence* ....................................123 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..132 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..137 ......... 2.5
Intellectual property protection* ........................142 ......... 1.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........94 .......... 84
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............129 .......... 45
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................98 ........ 630

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................142 ......... 3.4
Venture capital availability* ...............................138 ......... 1.8
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................137 ....... 72.0
No. days to start a business ..............................97 .......... 25
No. procedures to start a business ..................137 .......... 14
Intensity of local competition*...........................144 ......... 3.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........76 ....... 32.1
Quality of management schools* ......................131 ......... 3.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............142 ......... 2.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................86 ....... 99.0
Individuals using Internet, %.............................110 ....... 14.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............87 ....... 20.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................92 ....... 10.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......88 ......... 2.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................88 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................144 ......... 3.2
Capacity for innovation* ...................................143 ......... 1.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............98 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................139 ......... 2.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................139 ......... 2.4
Extent of staff training* .....................................142 ......... 2.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................140 ......... 2.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...120 ....... 0.25
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................137 ......... 2.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................92 .. 1,223.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................116 ....... 81.5
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................88 ......... 8.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................128 ......... 0.9
Accessibility of digital content* .........................137 ......... 3.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................49 ....... 0.20
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..61 ..... 30.23
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....107 ....... 1.31

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 144 ......... 2.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......82 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .144 ......... 2.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............76 ....... 19.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....142 ......... 2.6
Internet access in schools* ..............................132 ......... 2.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................144 ......... 2.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................106 ....... 0.05

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................131 ......... 2.5
Quality of math & science education* ...............129 ......... 2.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..54 ....... 94.9
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................112 ....... 72.6

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 143

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Argentina
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 99 ..3.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 92 .....3.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................126 ....3.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 131 .....2.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 110 .....3.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................97 ....4.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 70 .....4.0
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 114 .....3.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 80 .....4.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................74 ....3.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 60 .....3.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 90 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 117 .....3.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................94 ....3.1

Argentina

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 91 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 96 .....3.3

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................141 ......... 2.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................117 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ....................................133 ......... 2.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..129 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..142 ......... 2.1
Intellectual property protection* ........................134 ......... 2.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........69 .......... 69
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................87 ........ 590

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................109 ......... 4.3
Venture capital availability* ...............................135 ......... 1.8
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................142 ..... 108.3
No. days to start a business ..............................99 .......... 26
No. procedures to start a business ..................137 .......... 14
Intensity of local competition*...........................117 ......... 4.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........21 ....... 71.2
Quality of management schools* ........................34 ......... 4.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............131 ......... 2.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................26 ..... 134.9
Individuals using Internet, %...............................60 ....... 47.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............59 ....... 47.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................66 ....... 34.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......54 ....... 10.5
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........72 ....... 11.7
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................48 ......... 5.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................106 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* .....................................95 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............66 ......... 1.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................84 ......... 4.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................65 ......... 4.6
Extent of staff training* .......................................78 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................139 ......... 2.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....59 ....... 0.53
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................128 ......... 3.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................64 .. 3,041.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................96 ....... 94.1
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................52 ....... 25.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................64 ....... 33.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................86 ......... 4.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................137 ....... 0.86
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..87 ..... 37.30
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..94 ......... 4.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......61 ......... 0.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...78 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............82 ....... 17.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....111 ......... 3.6
Internet access in schools* ................................87 ......... 3.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................126 ......... 3.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................51 ....... 0.29

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................89 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* ...............115 ......... 3.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..76 ....... 88.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................50 ....... 97.8

144 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Armenia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 82 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 94 .....3.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................90 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 104 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 72 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................73 ....4.6
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 72 .....3.9
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 77 .....5.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 59 .....4.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................79 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 77 .....3.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 89 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 78 .....3.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................83 ....3.3

Armenia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 69 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 90 .....3.4

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................79 ......... 3.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................50 ......... 4.3
Judicial independence* ....................................110 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....75 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....79 ......... 3.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................80 ......... 3.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed ........100 .......... 88
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............137 .......... 49
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................49 ........ 440

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................101 ......... 4.5
Venture capital availability* .................................89 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................75 ....... 38.8
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*...........................130 ......... 3.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........52 ....... 48.9
Quality of management schools* ......................127 ......... 3.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............108 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................78 ..... 103.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................83 ....... 32.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............87 ....... 20.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................86 ....... 13.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......76 ......... 5.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........45 ....... 25.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................68 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................96 ......... 4.4
Capacity for innovation* .....................................62 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............57 ......... 1.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................54 ......... 5.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................82 ......... 4.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................98 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................56 ......... 4.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...106 ....... 0.33
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................52 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................85 .. 1,838.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................72 ....... 98.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................58 ....... 22.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................67 ....... 27.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................75 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................35 ....... 0.17
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..85 ..... 36.93
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....115 ....... 1.21

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..70 ......... 4.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......51 ......... 0.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...66 ......... 4.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............56 ....... 24.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......77 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................78 ......... 3.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................49 ......... 4.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................79 ......... 3.5
Quality of math & science education* .................71 ......... 4.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..74 ....... 88.7
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................11 ....... 99.6

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 145

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Australia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 18 ..5.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 17 .....5.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................11 ....5.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 10 .....5.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 21 .....5.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................25 ....5.5
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 6 .....6.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 97 .....4.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 17 .....5.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................18 ....5.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 15 .....5.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 25 .....4.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 19 .....5.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................18 ....5.0

Australia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 20 .....4.6
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 15 .....5.4

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................18 ......... 4.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................17 ......... 5.3
Judicial independence* ......................................14 ......... 6.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....18 ......... 5.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....19 ......... 4.7
Intellectual property protection* ..........................19 ......... 5.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............5 .......... 23
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................12 .......... 28
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................29 ........ 395

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................19 ......... 6.2
Venture capital availability* .................................28 ......... 3.3
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................107 ....... 47.5
No. days to start a business ................................2 ............ 2
No. procedures to start a business ......................3 ............ 2
Intensity of local competition*...............................6 ......... 5.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........10 ....... 79.9
Quality of management schools* ........................16 ......... 5.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............58 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................67 ..... 108.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................18 ....... 79.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............18 ....... 82.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................17 ....... 78.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......25 ....... 24.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........10 ....... 73.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................17 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................15 ......... 5.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................32 ......... 3.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............20 ....... 77.5
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................31 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................9 ......... 5.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................28 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................26 ......... 4.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......9 ....... 0.86
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................39 ......... 4.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................10 11,488.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................32 ....... 50.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................6 .. 2,002.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................20 ......... 6.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................121 ....... 0.54
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..94 ..... 40.24
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......63 ....... 1.91

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..28 ......... 5.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......19 ....... 20.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...28 ......... 4.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............12 ....... 42.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......23 ......... 5.4
Internet access in schools* ................................12 ......... 6.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................46 ......... 4.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................8 ....... 0.76

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................15 ......... 5.0
Quality of math & science education* .................24 ......... 4.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....1 ..... 131.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

146 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Austria
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 19 ..5.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 19 .....5.3

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................22 ....5.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 17 .....5.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 31 .....4.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................9 ....6.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 9 .....6.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 37 .....5.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 24 .....5.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................17 ....5.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 19 .....5.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 9 .....5.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 35 .....4.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................24 ....4.8

Austria

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 22 .....4.6
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 29 .....5.0

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................37 ......... 4.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................21 ......... 5.2
Judicial independence* ......................................30 ......... 5.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....25 ......... 4.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....22 ......... 4.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................16 ......... 5.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............5 .......... 23
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................4 .......... 25
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................31 ........ 397

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................13 ......... 6.3
Venture capital availability* .................................39 ......... 3.0
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................120 ....... 53.1
No. days to start a business ..............................97 .......... 25
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*...............................7 ......... 5.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........23 ....... 68.2
Quality of management schools* ........................37 ......... 4.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............50 ......... 3.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................13 ..... 154.8
Individuals using Internet, %...............................15 ....... 79.8
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............25 ....... 78.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................24 ....... 75.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......21 ....... 25.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........23 ....... 42.6
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................20 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................13 ......... 5.9
Capacity for innovation* .......................................9 ......... 5.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............10 ..... 154.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................3 ......... 6.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................16 ......... 5.6
Extent of staff training* .......................................12 ......... 5.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................77 ......... 3.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....26 ....... 0.75
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................58 ......... 4.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................25 .. 7,987.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................19 ....... 81.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................20 ..... 993.2
Accessibility of digital content* .............................9 ......... 6.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................15 ....... 0.08
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..78 ..... 35.33
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..33 ......... 5.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......14 ....... 30.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...49 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............27 ....... 36.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......18 ......... 5.6
Internet access in schools* ................................25 ......... 5.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................14 ......... 5.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................41 ....... 0.37

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................26 ......... 4.7
Quality of math & science education* .................43 ......... 4.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..40 ....... 98.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 147

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Azerbaijan
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 56 ..4.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 61 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................77 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 66 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 86 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................51 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 75 .....3.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 20 .....6.2
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 57 .....5.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................52 ....4.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 64 .....3.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 58 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 34 .....4.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................59 ....3.6

Azerbaijan

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 59 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 57 .....3.9

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................59 ......... 3.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................46 ......... 4.4
Judicial independence* ......................................86 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....76 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....58 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................53 ......... 3.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........99 .......... 87
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ............................5 ........ 237

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................81 ......... 4.8
Venture capital availability* .................................59 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................77 ....... 40.0
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................131 ......... 3.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........92 ....... 19.3
Quality of management schools* ......................123 ......... 3.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............19 ......... 4.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................64 ..... 108.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................56 ....... 50.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............86 ....... 21.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................62 ....... 35.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......53 ....... 10.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........50 ....... 21.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................41 ......... 5.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................73 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* .....................................39 ......... 3.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............77 ......... 0.4
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................78 ......... 4.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................77 ......... 4.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................56 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................9 ......... 5.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....97 ....... 0.37
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................8 ......... 5.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................79 .. 2,108.9
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................64 ....... 19.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................100 ......... 4.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................71 ......... 5.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................28 ....... 0.15
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..16 ..... 18.55
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....104 ....... 1.35

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..41 ......... 4.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...39 ......... 4.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............69 ....... 20.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......37 ......... 4.9
Internet access in schools* ................................79 ......... 3.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................19 ......... 5.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................109 ......... 3.1
Quality of math & science education* .................99 ......... 3.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..48 ....... 96.9
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................3 ....... 99.8

148 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Bahrain
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 29 ..4.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 27 .....4.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................28 ....4.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 40 .....4.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 14 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................35 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 39 .....5.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 46 .....5.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 44 .....5.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................30 ....4.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 30 .....5.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 56 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 4 .....5.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................32 ....4.4

Bahrain

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 52 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 16 .....5.4

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................47 ......... 4.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................32 ......... 4.9
Judicial independence* ......................................32 ......... 5.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....30 ......... 4.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....28 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................28 ......... 5.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........44 .......... 54
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............136 .......... 48
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................99 ........ 635

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................24 ......... 6.2
Venture capital availability* ...................................7 ......... 4.3
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................4 ....... 13.9
No. days to start a business ..............................43 ............ 9
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................33 ......... 5.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %.......n/a ......... n/a
Quality of management schools* ........................79 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............20 ......... 4.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................34 ..... 128.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................21 ....... 77.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .................7 ....... 90.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................20 ....... 76.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......43 ....... 13.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........75 ......... 9.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................15 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................21 ......... 5.8
Capacity for innovation* ...................................117 ......... 2.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............54 ......... 1.9
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................29 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................97 ......... 4.0
Extent of staff training* .......................................25 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................8 ......... 5.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......9 ....... 0.86
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................6 ......... 5.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................11 10,308.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................73 ....... 14.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................48 ..... 117.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................31 ......... 5.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................32 ....... 0.16
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..74 ..... 34.65
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......61 ....... 1.92

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..35 ......... 5.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......70 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...40 ......... 4.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............68 ....... 20.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......13 ......... 5.8
Internet access in schools* ................................35 ......... 5.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................6 ......... 5.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................19 ....... 0.66

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................35 ......... 4.4
Quality of math & science education* .................56 ......... 4.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..24 ..... 103.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................78 ....... 91.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 149

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Bangladesh
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............114 ..3.2

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 113 .....3.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................128 ....3.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 137 .....2.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 111 .....3.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................91 ....4.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 109 .....2.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 13 .....6.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 128 .....3.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................121 ....2.8
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 128 .....1.7
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 132 .....2.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 68 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................126 ....2.7

Bangladesh

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 128 .....2.5
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 118 .....2.9

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................101 ......... 3.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................118 ......... 3.1
Judicial independence* ....................................104 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..101 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....71 ......... 3.6
Intellectual property protection* ........................131 ......... 2.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed ........103 .......... 90
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............110 .......... 41
No. days to enforce a contract ........................141 ..... 1,442

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................105 ......... 4.4
Venture capital availability* ...............................122 ......... 2.0
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................60 ....... 35.0
No. days to start a business ..............................81 .......... 19
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................83 ......... 4.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......111 ....... 10.6
Quality of management schools* ........................91 ......... 3.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............134 ......... 2.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............126 ....... 56.1
Individuals using Internet, %.............................126 ......... 5.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............127 ......... 3.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................117 ......... 2.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....112 ......... 0.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........124 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................123 ......... 4.5

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................111 ......... 4.2
Capacity for innovation* ...................................131 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............117 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................126 ......... 4.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................117 ......... 3.6
Extent of staff training* .....................................136 ......... 3.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................68 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....83 ....... 0.44
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................72 ......... 4.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................119 ..... 257.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............132 ......... 1.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................133 ......... 0.6
Accessibility of digital content* .........................115 ......... 4.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................4 ....... 0.03
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..17 ..... 18.87
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....113 ....... 1.25

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 100 ......... 4.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .112 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........101 ......... 7.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....100 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................122 ......... 2.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................104 ......... 3.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................97 ......... 3.2
Quality of math & science education* ...............113 ......... 3.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 117 ....... 51.4
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................127 ....... 56.8

150 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Barbados
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 39 ..4.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 35 .....4.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................36 ....4.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 32 .....4.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 38 .....4.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................65 ....4.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 32 .....5.3
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 111 .....3.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 22 .....5.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................34 ....4.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 26 .....5.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 43 .....3.7
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 64 .....4.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................38 ....4.1

Barbados

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 27 .....4.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 52 .....4.0

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................10 ......... 5.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................56 ......... 4.2
Judicial independence* ......................................19 ......... 5.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....28 ......... 4.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....32 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................30 ......... 4.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ........................137 ..... 1,340

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................28 ......... 6.0
Venture capital availability* .................................94 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................101 ....... 45.4
No. days to start a business ..............................77 .......... 18
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*.............................70 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........33 ....... 61.8
Quality of management schools* ........................21 ......... 5.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............34 ......... 4.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................36 ..... 127.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................30 ....... 71.8
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............45 ....... 61.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................48 ....... 51.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......29 ....... 22.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............7 ....... 77.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................26 ......... 6.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................37 ......... 5.4
Capacity for innovation* .....................................91 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............32 ....... 11.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................49 ......... 5.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................60 ......... 4.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................30 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................36 ......... 4.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....95 ....... 0.37
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................48 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................56 .. 3,793.9
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................38 ....... 38.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................29 ..... 401.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................28 ......... 6.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................104 ....... 0.40
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 105 ..... 50.44
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....116 ....... 1.20

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..63 ......... 4.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......34 ......... 1.8
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...63 ......... 4.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............1 ....... 57.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......33 ......... 5.1
Internet access in schools* ................................33 ......... 5.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................47 ......... 4.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................7 ......... 5.4
Quality of math & science education* ...................7 ......... 5.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..22 ..... 103.7
Adult literacy rate, % .........................................n/a ......... n/a

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 151

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Belgium
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 24 ..5.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 22 .....5.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................17 ....5.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 23 .....4.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 18 .....5.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................15 ....5.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 18 .....6.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 70 .....5.2
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 3 .....6.1

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................26 ....5.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 25 .....5.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 17 .....4.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 41 .....4.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................28 ....4.5

Belgium

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 19 .....4.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 41 .....4.3

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................63 ......... 3.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................33 ......... 4.9
Judicial independence* ......................................28 ......... 5.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....45 ......... 4.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....41 ......... 4.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................24 ......... 5.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............7 .......... 24
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................5 .......... 26
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................62 ........ 505

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................9 ......... 6.5
Venture capital availability* .................................23 ......... 3.5
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................124 ....... 57.7
No. days to start a business ................................8 ............ 4
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*...............................4 ......... 6.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........22 ....... 70.6
Quality of management schools* ..........................2 ......... 6.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............25 ......... 4.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................50 ..... 116.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................19 ....... 78.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............23 ....... 78.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................21 ....... 76.5
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........9 ....... 33.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........56 ....... 19.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................19 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................31 ......... 5.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................11 ......... 5.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............15 ..... 106.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................21 ......... 5.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................37 ......... 5.1
Extent of staff training* .......................................20 ......... 4.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................69 ......... 4.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....39 ....... 0.65
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................63 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................17 .. 8,726.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................12 ..... 131.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................23 ..... 599.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................15 ......... 6.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................127 ....... 0.58
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..31 ..... 22.13
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..31 ......... 5.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......18 ....... 23.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...30 ......... 4.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............10 ....... 43.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......22 ......... 5.4
Internet access in schools* ................................28 ......... 5.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................50 ......... 4.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................5 ......... 5.4
Quality of math & science education* ...................3 ......... 6.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..11 ..... 110.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

152 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Benin
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............123 ..3.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 117 .....3.0

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................115 ....3.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 94 .....3.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 123 .....3.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................128 ....2.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 113 .....2.8
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 133 .....2.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 124 .....3.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................127 ....2.7
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 109 .....2.2
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 117 .....3.0
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 135 .....2.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................113 ....2.9

Benin

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 87 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 123 .....2.8

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................41 ......... 4.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................120 ......... 3.1
Judicial independence* ....................................101 ......... 2.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....91 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....66 ......... 3.7
Intellectual property protection* ..........................91 ......... 3.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............116 .......... 42
No. days to enforce a contract ........................117 ........ 795

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................113 ......... 4.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................102 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................131 ....... 65.9
No. days to start a business ..............................99 .......... 26
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................93 ......... 4.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......102 ....... 13.3
Quality of management schools* ........................53 ......... 4.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............62 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............102 ....... 85.3
Individuals using Internet, %.............................131 ......... 3.5
Households w/ personal computer, % .............132 ......... 2.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ...................n/a ......... n/a
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....131 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................102 ......... 5.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................114 ......... 4.2
Capacity for innovation* ...................................121 ......... 2.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............110 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................123 ......... 4.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................84 ......... 4.3
Extent of staff training* .....................................133 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................110 ......... 3.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...127 ....... 0.20
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................132 ......... 3.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................143 ....... 14.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............117 ......... 3.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................131 ......... 0.8
Accessibility of digital content* .........................128 ......... 3.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................99 ....... 0.39
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 128 ... 107.58
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....135 ....... 0.50

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..64 ......... 4.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .117 ......... 3.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....115 ......... 3.5
Internet access in schools* ..............................127 ......... 2.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................112 ......... 3.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................71 ......... 3.6
Quality of math & science education* .................51 ......... 4.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 116 ....... 51.4
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................135 ....... 42.4

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 153

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Bolivia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............119 ..3.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 127 .....2.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................129 ....3.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 110 .....3.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 137 .....3.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................124 ....3.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 138 .....1.7
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 122 .....2.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 94 .....4.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................113 ....3.0
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 104 .....2.3
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 109 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 115 .....3.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................114 ....2.9

Bolivia

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 123 .....2.6
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 104 .....3.1

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................91 ......... 3.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................110 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ......................................97 ......... 3.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..104 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....99 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................88 ......... 3.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........82 .......... 79
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................88 ........ 591

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................134 ......... 3.6
Venture capital availability* .................................30 ......... 3.3
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................140 ....... 83.4
No. days to start a business ............................128 .......... 50
No. procedures to start a business ..................139 .......... 15
Intensity of local competition*...........................135 ......... 3.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........66 ....... 38.6
Quality of management schools* ......................120 ......... 3.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............79 ......... 3.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............106 ....... 82.8
Individuals using Internet, %...............................90 ....... 30.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............79 ....... 27.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................95 ......... 9.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....108 ......... 0.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........98 ......... 2.8
Use of virtual social networks* .........................140 ......... 3.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................138 ......... 3.7
Capacity for innovation* .....................................61 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............99 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................132 ......... 3.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................100 ......... 4.0
Extent of staff training* .....................................103 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................115 ......... 3.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....91 ....... 0.41
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................115 ......... 3.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................109 ..... 626.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................133 ....... 45.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............108 ......... 4.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................91 ......... 9.5
Accessibility of digital content* .........................129 ......... 3.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................111 ....... 0.46
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 110 ..... 54.67
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....130 ....... 0.80

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 129 ......... 3.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .101 ......... 3.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............91 ....... 14.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....117 ......... 3.5
Internet access in schools* ..............................100 ......... 3.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................123 ......... 3.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................62 ....... 0.21

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................96 ......... 3.3
Quality of math & science education* ...............103 ......... 3.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..91 ....... 81.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................82 ....... 91.2

154 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Bosnia and Herzegovina
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 78 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 84 .....3.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................92 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 97 .....3.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 83 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................43 ....5.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 64 .....4.1
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 31 .....6.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 49 .....5.1

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................87 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 73 .....3.3
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 104 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 111 .....3.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................96 ....3.1

Bosnia and Herzegovina     

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 96 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 95 .....3.3

Upper middle income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................100 ......... 3.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................95 ......... 3.6
Judicial independence* ......................................78 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..105 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....87 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ........................130 ......... 2.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........62 .......... 66
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................90 ........ 595

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................89 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* ...............................127 ......... 1.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................19 ....... 24.1
No. days to start a business ............................119 .......... 37
No. procedures to start a business ..................123 .......... 11
Intensity of local competition*...........................138 ......... 3.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........68 ....... 38.1
Quality of management schools* ........................50 ......... 4.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............94 ......... 3.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............104 ....... 84.5
Individuals using Internet, %...............................42 ....... 60.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............73 ....... 33.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................74 ....... 23.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......59 ......... 9.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........77 ......... 9.2
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................63 ......... 5.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................105 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* ...................................101 ......... 2.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............53 ......... 2.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................105 ......... 4.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................88 ......... 4.2
Extent of staff training* .....................................109 ......... 3.5

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................113 ......... 3.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....95 ....... 0.37
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................85 ......... 4.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................53 .. 4,158.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................41 ....... 99.7
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................69 ....... 17.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................75 ....... 20.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................45 ......... 5.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................83 ....... 0.34
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....8 ..... 15.68
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......71 ....... 1.86

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 104 ......... 3.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......69 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...92 ......... 3.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......60 ......... 4.3
Internet access in schools* ................................71 ......... 4.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................96 ......... 3.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................106 ......... 3.1
Quality of math & science education* .................21 ......... 5.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..71 ....... 89.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................49 ....... 97.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 155

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Botswana
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 96 ..3.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 89 .....3.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................56 ....4.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 39 .....4.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 103 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................107 ....3.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 100 .....3.1
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 109 .....3.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 86 .....4.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................99 ....3.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 98 .....2.6
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 96 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 91 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................105 ....3.0

Botswana

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 114 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 103 .....3.2

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................15 ......... 5.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................90 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................22 ......... 5.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....16 ......... 5.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....15 ......... 4.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................45 ......... 4.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........86 .......... 80
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................12 .......... 28
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................97 ........ 625

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................93 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* .................................47 ......... 2.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................22 ....... 25.3
No. days to start a business ............................133 .......... 61
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*.............................74 ......... 4.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......121 ......... 7.4
Quality of management schools* ........................92 ......... 3.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............65 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................20 ..... 142.8
Individuals using Internet, %.............................124 ......... 7.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............111 ......... 6.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................122 ......... 2.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....105 ......... 0.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........71 ....... 11.8
Use of virtual social networks* .........................103 ......... 5.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................98 ......... 4.4
Capacity for innovation* .....................................96 ......... 2.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............106 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................120 ......... 4.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................108 ......... 3.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................68 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................67 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...100 ....... 0.36
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................83 ......... 4.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................121 ..... 224.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................87 ....... 96.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................90 ......... 8.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................93 ......... 8.9
Accessibility of digital content* .........................103 ......... 4.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................101 ....... 0.40
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 104 ..... 49.46
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....112 ....... 1.27

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 108 ......... 3.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .116 ......... 3.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............84 ....... 17.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......89 ......... 4.0
Internet access in schools* ................................96 ......... 3.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................70 ......... 4.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................55 ......... 4.0
Quality of math & science education* .................66 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..89 ....... 81.7
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................104 ....... 84.5

156 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Brazil
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 60 ..4.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 65 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................107 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 78 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 126 .....3.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................74 ....4.5
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 62 .....4.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 76 .....5.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 91 .....4.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................44 ....4.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 58 .....4.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 34 .....3.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 48 .....4.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................50 ....3.7

Brazil

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 50 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 48 .....4.1

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................120 ......... 2.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................47 ......... 4.4
Judicial independence* ......................................71 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....84 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....61 ......... 3.8
Intellectual property protection* ..........................75 ......... 3.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........40 .......... 53
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............124 .......... 44
No. days to enforce a contract ........................111 ........ 731

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................50 ......... 5.3
Venture capital availability* .................................51 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................136 ....... 69.3
No. days to start a business ............................141 ........ 119
No. procedures to start a business ..................132 .......... 13
Intensity of local competition*.............................45 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........83 ....... 25.6
Quality of management schools* ........................52 ......... 4.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............53 ......... 3.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................40 ..... 124.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................62 ....... 45.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............64 ....... 45.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................59 ....... 37.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......63 ......... 8.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........53 ....... 20.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................47 ......... 5.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................47 ......... 5.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................34 ......... 3.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............50 ......... 2.8
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................40 ......... 5.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................28 ......... 5.3
Extent of staff training* .......................................33 ......... 4.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................80 ......... 3.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....32 ....... 0.67
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................81 ......... 4.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................73 .. 2,413.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................24 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................47 ....... 28.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................58 ....... 54.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................82 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................130 ....... 0.68
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..11 ..... 16.58
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..34 ......... 5.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......56 ......... 0.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...34 ......... 4.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............75 ....... 19.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......68 ......... 4.2
Internet access in schools* ................................88 ......... 3.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................53 ......... 4.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................31 ....... 0.50

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................116 ......... 3.0
Quality of math & science education* ...............132 ......... 2.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..19 ..... 105.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................85 ....... 90.3

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 157

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Brunei Darussalam
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 57 ..4.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 54 .....4.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................57 ....4.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 45 .....4.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 77 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................94 ....4.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 50 .....4.5
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 135 .....2.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 31 .....5.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................41 ....4.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 49 .....4.3
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 59 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 33 .....4.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................39 ....4.1

Brunei Darussalam

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 48 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 35 .....4.7

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................24 ......... 4.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................61 ......... 4.1
Judicial independence* ......................................33 ......... 5.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....34 ......... 4.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....49 ......... 4.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................47 ......... 4.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........65 .......... 67
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............134 .......... 47
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................75 ........ 540

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................65 ......... 5.0
Venture capital availability* .................................35 ......... 3.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................11 ....... 16.8
No. days to start a business ............................139 ........ 101
No. procedures to start a business ..................139 .......... 15
Intensity of local competition*.............................71 ......... 4.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........91 ....... 19.6
Quality of management schools* ........................58 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............18 ......... 4.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................62 ..... 109.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................47 ....... 56.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............21 ....... 79.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................35 ....... 65.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......72 ......... 5.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........83 ......... 6.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................22 ......... 6.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................62 ......... 4.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................68 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............49 ......... 3.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................55 ......... 5.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................61 ......... 4.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................52 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................29 ......... 4.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....44 ....... 0.59
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................31 ......... 5.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................16 .. 9,218.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop .....................n/a ......... n/a
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................59 ....... 22.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................50 ..... 113.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................46 ......... 5.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................110 ....... 0.45
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 120 ..... 81.20
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....131 ....... 0.78

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..71 ......... 4.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......40 ......... 1.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...57 ......... 4.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............47 ....... 28.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......32 ......... 5.1
Internet access in schools* ................................34 ......... 5.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................45 ......... 4.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................34 ....... 0.47

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................25 ......... 4.7
Quality of math & science education* .................23 ......... 4.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....9 ..... 111.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................62 ....... 95.2

158 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Bulgaria
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 71 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 70 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................68 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 101 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 48 .....4.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................75 ....4.5
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 37 .....5.0
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 106 .....3.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 70 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................63 ....3.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 48 .....4.3
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 101 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 98 .....3.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................87 ....3.3

Bulgaria

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 75 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 89 .....3.4

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................111 ......... 2.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................70 ......... 4.0
Judicial independence* ....................................102 ......... 2.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..122 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..114 ......... 2.9
Intellectual property protection* ........................105 ......... 3.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........61 .......... 64
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................79 ........ 564

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................98 ......... 4.5
Venture capital availability* .................................58 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................34 ....... 28.7
No. days to start a business ..............................77 .......... 18
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*...........................101 ......... 4.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........43 ....... 56.9
Quality of management schools* ......................101 ......... 3.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............81 ......... 3.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................22 ..... 140.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................54 ....... 51.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............61 ....... 46.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................54 ....... 45.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......38 ....... 16.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........42 ....... 29.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................82 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................125 ......... 4.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................64 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............47 ......... 3.6
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................96 ......... 4.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................64 ......... 4.6
Extent of staff training* .....................................118 ......... 3.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................108 ......... 3.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....70 ....... 0.49
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................102 ......... 3.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................38 .. 5,587.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................24 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................23 ....... 70.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................46 ..... 139.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................72 ......... 5.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................133 ....... 0.78
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..52 ..... 29.02
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....103 ....... 1.36

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..96 ......... 4.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......43 ......... 0.9
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...94 ......... 3.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............46 ....... 28.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......88 ......... 4.0
Internet access in schools* ................................50 ......... 4.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................98 ......... 3.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................98 ......... 3.2
Quality of math & science education* .................68 ......... 4.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..72 ....... 88.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................44 ....... 98.4

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 159

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Burkina Faso
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............130 ..2.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 135 .....2.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................110 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 88 .....3.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 122 .....3.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................142 ....2.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 136 .....1.8
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 129 .....2.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 142 .....2.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................126 ....2.7
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 140 .....1.5
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 131 .....2.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 92 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................125 ....2.7

Burkina Faso

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 118 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 124 .....2.7

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................86 ......... 3.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................111 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ....................................126 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....78 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....81 ......... 3.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................71 ......... 3.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................51 ........ 446

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................138 ......... 3.6
Venture capital availability* ...............................136 ......... 1.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................93 ....... 43.6
No. days to start a business ..............................62 .......... 13
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*...........................105 ......... 4.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......132 ......... 3.9
Quality of management schools* ......................105 ......... 3.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............88 ......... 3.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............133 ....... 45.3
Individuals using Internet, %.............................134 ......... 3.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............134 ......... 2.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................122 ......... 2.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....124 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................135 ......... 4.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................118 ......... 4.1
Capacity for innovation* ...................................135 ......... 2.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............113 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................115 ......... 4.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................118 ......... 3.6
Extent of staff training* .....................................137 ......... 2.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................86 ......... 3.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...117 ....... 0.29
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................36 ......... 4.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................138 ....... 41.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................131 ....... 61.1
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............124 ......... 2.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................134 ......... 0.6
Accessibility of digital content* .........................136 ......... 3.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................84 ....... 0.35
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 130 ... 120.00
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....132 ....... 0.75

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 107 ......... 3.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .128 ......... 3.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....126 ......... 3.2
Internet access in schools* ..............................141 ......... 1.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................79 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................76 ....... 0.16

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................124 ......... 2.8
Quality of math & science education* .................80 ......... 3.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 143 ....... 22.6
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................141 ....... 28.7

160 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Burundi
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............144 ..2.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 137 .....2.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................142 ....2.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 144 .....2.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 139 .....3.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................138 ....2.5
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 128 .....2.2
4th pillar: Affordability ....................................................... n/a .....n/a
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 134 .....2.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................144 ....2.0
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 144 .....1.3
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 143 .....2.3
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 142 .....2.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................144 ....2.1

Burundi

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 141 .....2.2
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 144 .....1.9

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................133 ......... 2.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................144 ......... 2.0
Judicial independence* ....................................143 ......... 1.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..134 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..141 ......... 2.4
Intellectual property protection* ........................141 ......... 1.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............124 .......... 44
No. days to enforce a contract ........................120 ........ 832

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................144 ......... 3.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................143 ......... 1.6
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................118 ....... 53.0
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*...........................140 ......... 3.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......134 ......... 3.2
Quality of management schools* ......................136 ......... 2.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............139 ......... 2.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............143 ....... 22.3
Individuals using Internet, %.............................141 ......... 1.1
Households w/ personal computer, % .............131 ......... 2.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................115 ......... 2.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....140 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................143 ......... 3.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................143 ......... 3.5
Capacity for innovation* ...................................144 ......... 1.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................138 ......... 3.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................137 ......... 2.7
Extent of staff training* .....................................143 ......... 2.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................135 ......... 2.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...134 ....... 0.15
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................138 ......... 2.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................142 ....... 15.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................113 ....... 83.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............125 ......... 1.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................143 ......... 0.1
Accessibility of digital content* .........................142 ......... 2.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. ......................n/a ......... n/a
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month .n/a ......... n/a
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......95 ....... 1.54

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 139 ......... 3.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .142 ......... 2.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....144 ......... 2.4
Internet access in schools* ..............................143 ......... 1.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................140 ......... 2.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................143 ......... 2.0
Quality of math & science education* ...............112 ......... 3.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 137 ....... 28.0
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................118 ....... 67.2

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 161

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Cambodia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............106 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 108 .....3.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................79 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 65 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 91 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................111 ....3.5
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 87 .....3.3
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 112 .....3.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 109 .....3.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................104 ....3.1
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 112 .....2.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 70 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 103 .....3.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................107 ....2.9

Cambodia

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 124 .....2.6
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 101 .....3.3

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................48 ......... 4.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................89 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................91 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....56 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....40 ......... 4.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................85 ......... 3.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............124 .......... 44
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................34 ........ 401

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................79 ......... 4.8
Venture capital availability* .................................44 ......... 2.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................15 ....... 22.5
No. days to start a business ............................136 .......... 85
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*.............................72 ......... 4.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......101 ....... 14.5
Quality of management schools* ........................96 ......... 3.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............24 ......... 4.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................92 ....... 96.2
Individuals using Internet, %.............................133 ......... 3.1
Households w/ personal computer, % .............120 ......... 4.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................136 ......... 0.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....120 ......... 0.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........100 ......... 2.2
Use of virtual social networks* .........................107 ......... 4.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................61 ......... 4.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................65 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................87 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................94 ......... 4.1
Extent of staff training* .......................................74 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................55 ......... 4.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...128 ....... 0.19
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................47 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................133 ....... 86.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................74 ....... 13.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................110 ......... 2.5
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................92 ......... 4.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................51 ....... 0.20
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 119 ..... 78.72
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......65 ....... 1.88

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..79 ......... 4.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...75 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........108 ......... 2.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......74 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................83 ......... 3.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................76 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................58 ......... 3.9
Quality of math & science education* .................90 ......... 3.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 119 ....... 46.6
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................109 ....... 73.9

162 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Cameroon
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............124 ..2.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 125 .....2.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................119 ....3.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 126 .....3.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 107 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................131 ....2.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 137 .....1.8
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 125 .....2.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 103 .....3.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................119 ....2.9
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 130 .....1.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 98 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 101 .....3.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................119 ....2.8

Cameroon

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 104 .....2.8
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 126 .....2.7

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................95 ......... 3.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................119 ......... 3.1
Judicial independence* ....................................127 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....88 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....91 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ........................100 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........92 .......... 83
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............116 .......... 42
No. days to enforce a contract ........................118 ........ 800

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................123 ......... 4.0
Venture capital availability* ...............................108 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................109 ....... 49.1
No. days to start a business ..............................69 .......... 15
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................97 ......... 4.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......104 ....... 12.4
Quality of management schools* ........................46 ......... 4.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............43 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............129 ....... 52.4
Individuals using Internet, %.............................126 ......... 5.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............117 ......... 5.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................126 ......... 1.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....138 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................119 ......... 4.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................113 ......... 4.2
Capacity for innovation* ...................................110 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............85 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................53 ......... 5.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................101 ......... 3.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................83 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................83 ......... 3.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...113 ....... 0.30
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................65 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................117 ..... 299.4
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................132 ....... 58.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............140 ......... 0.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................125 ......... 1.0
Accessibility of digital content* .........................127 ......... 3.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................88 ....... 0.36
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 129 ... 115.21
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....102 ....... 1.36

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 101 ......... 3.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......71 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .108 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....119 ......... 3.4
Internet access in schools* ..............................130 ......... 2.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................91 ......... 3.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................66 ......... 3.7
Quality of math & science education* .................75 ......... 3.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 118 ....... 51.3
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................116 ....... 70.7

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 163

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Canada
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 12 ..5.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 9 .....5.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................10 ....5.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 12 .....5.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 3 .....5.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................5 ....6.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 5 .....6.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 43 .....5.7
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 6 .....6.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................24 ....5.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 27 .....5.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 24 .....4.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 22 .....5.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................16 ....5.1

Canada

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 16 .....4.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 17 .....5.3

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................6 ......... 5.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................22 ......... 5.2
Judicial independence* ........................................5 ......... 6.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......9 ......... 5.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....12 ......... 5.1
Intellectual property protection* ..........................17 ......... 5.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........14 .......... 27
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................82 ........ 570

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................18 ......... 6.3
Venture capital availability* .................................20 ......... 3.6
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................25 ....... 26.9
No. days to start a business ..............................10 ............ 5
No. procedures to start a business ......................1 ............ 1
Intensity of local competition*.............................19 ......... 5.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........37 ....... 60.0
Quality of management schools* ..........................5 ......... 5.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............47 ......... 3.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............109 ....... 79.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................12 ....... 83.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............15 ....... 83.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................17 ....... 78.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......12 ....... 31.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........30 ....... 38.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................10 ......... 6.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................30 ......... 5.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................25 ......... 4.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............19 ....... 78.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................27 ......... 5.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................17 ......... 5.6
Extent of staff training* .......................................23 ......... 4.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................51 ......... 4.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......6 ....... 0.89
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................38 ......... 4.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................4 17,522.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................24 ....... 70.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................15 .. 1,368.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................16 ......... 6.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................92 ....... 0.37
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..37 ..... 24.71
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..23 ......... 5.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......15 ....... 29.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...14 ......... 5.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............14 ....... 42.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......28 ......... 5.3
Internet access in schools* ................................13 ......... 6.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................32 ......... 4.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................15 ....... 0.68

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................6 ......... 5.4
Quality of math & science education* .................14 ......... 5.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..29 ..... 101.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

164 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Cape Verde
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 81 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 81 .....3.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................65 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 55 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 92 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................83 ....4.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 103 .....3.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 42 .....5.7
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 90 .....4.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................96 ....3.2
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 103 .....2.4
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 122 .....3.0
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 45 .....4.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................65 ....3.5

Cape Verde

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 76 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 62 .....3.9

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................34 ......... 4.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................74 ......... 3.9
Judicial independence* ......................................51 ......... 4.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....70 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....64 ......... 3.7
Intellectual property protection* ........................113 ......... 2.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................43 ........ 425

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................68 ......... 5.0
Venture capital availability* .................................99 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................71 ....... 37.2
No. days to start a business ..............................54 .......... 11
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*...........................122 ......... 4.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........90 ....... 20.4
Quality of management schools* ......................114 ......... 3.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............42 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............110 ....... 79.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................83 ....... 32.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............102 ....... 11.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................118 ......... 2.5
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......78 ......... 4.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........96 ......... 3.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................94 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................76 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* ...................................137 ......... 2.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................91 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................107 ......... 3.8
Extent of staff training* .....................................120 ......... 3.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................24 ......... 4.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....84 ....... 0.44
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................37 ......... 4.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................111 ..... 563.4
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................87 ....... 96.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............104 ......... 5.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................84 ....... 16.0
Accessibility of digital content* .........................101 ......... 4.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................105 ....... 0.42
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....3 ..... 13.53
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......75 ....... 1.83

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..68 ......... 4.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...77 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......58 ......... 4.4
Internet access in schools* ................................90 ......... 3.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................29 ......... 5.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................58 ....... 0.24

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................64 ......... 3.8
Quality of math & science education* ...............108 ......... 3.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..69 ....... 89.7
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................105 ....... 84.3

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 165

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Chad
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............142 ..2.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 138 .....2.6

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................144 ....2.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 139 .....2.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 144 .....2.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................127 ....2.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 127 .....2.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 98 .....4.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 141 .....2.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................141 ....2.3
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 142 .....1.4
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 134 .....2.8
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 136 .....2.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................139 ....2.3

Chad

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 138 .....2.3
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 139 .....2.3

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................136 ......... 2.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................137 ......... 2.4
Judicial independence* ....................................136 ......... 2.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..131 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..121 ......... 2.8
Intellectual property protection* ........................138 ......... 2.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............110 .......... 41
No. days to enforce a contract ........................113 ........ 743

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................143 ......... 3.3
Venture capital availability* ...............................124 ......... 2.0
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................129 ....... 65.4
No. days to start a business ............................134 .......... 62
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*...........................142 ......... 3.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......136 ......... 2.3
Quality of management schools* ......................128 ......... 3.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............112 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............141 ....... 31.8
Individuals using Internet, %.............................138 ......... 1.9
Households w/ personal computer, % .............143 ......... 0.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................139 ......... 0.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....142 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................141 ......... 3.5

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................137 ......... 3.7
Capacity for innovation* ...................................105 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............107 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................137 ......... 3.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................136 ......... 2.8
Extent of staff training* .....................................139 ......... 2.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................95 ......... 3.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...137 ....... 0.10
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................121 ......... 3.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................144 ......... 8.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................121 ....... 75.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............141 ......... 0.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ...................n/a ......... n/a
Accessibility of digital content* .........................141 ......... 2.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................135 ....... 0.83
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..35 ..... 23.24
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......97 ....... 1.50

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 137 ......... 3.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .138 ......... 2.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....131 ......... 3.2
Internet access in schools* ..............................144 ......... 1.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................131 ......... 3.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................113 ......... 3.0
Quality of math & science education* ...............111 ......... 3.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 141 ....... 25.4
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................139 ....... 34.5

166 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Chile
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 34 ..4.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 39 .....4.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................30 ....4.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 38 .....4.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 20 .....5.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................49 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 61 .....4.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 33 .....5.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 66 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................40 ....4.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 53 .....4.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 44 .....3.7
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 29 .....4.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................34 ....4.3

Chile

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 35 .....3.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 27 .....5.0

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................52 ......... 3.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................31 ......... 4.9
Judicial independence* ......................................24 ......... 5.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....23 ......... 4.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....21 ......... 4.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................61 ......... 3.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........53 .......... 61
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................58 ........ 480

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................32 ......... 5.9
Venture capital availability* .................................31 ......... 3.2
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................30 ....... 28.1
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................39 ......... 5.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........25 ....... 66.1
Quality of management schools* ........................14 ......... 5.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............37 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................32 ..... 129.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................50 ....... 53.9
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............60 ....... 46.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................64 ....... 35.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......49 ....... 11.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........59 ....... 18.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................31 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................44 ......... 5.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................83 ......... 3.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............44 ......... 5.5
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................38 ......... 5.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................31 ......... 5.2
Extent of staff training* .......................................38 ......... 4.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................30 ......... 4.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....24 ....... 0.75
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................57 ......... 4.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................60 .. 3,649.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................61 ....... 20.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................56 ....... 67.5
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................55 ......... 5.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................72 ....... 0.29
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..39 ..... 24.84
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..30 ......... 5.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......50 ......... 0.6
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...35 ......... 4.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............42 ....... 30.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......35 ......... 5.0
Internet access in schools* ................................48 ......... 4.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................18 ......... 5.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................19 ....... 0.66

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................91 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* ...............117 ......... 3.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..70 ....... 89.4
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................41 ....... 98.6

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 167

3: Country/Economy Profiles

China
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 58 ..4.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 51 .....4.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................71 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 56 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 105 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................66 ....4.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 83 .....3.5
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 40 .....5.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 53 .....5.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................58 ....3.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 83 .....3.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 35 .....3.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 38 .....4.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................55 ....3.7

China

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 83 .....3.1
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 42 .....4.3

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................33 ......... 4.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................51 ......... 4.3
Judicial independence* ......................................66 ......... 3.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....44 ......... 4.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....53 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................51 ......... 3.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........79 .......... 77
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................35 ........ 406

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................107 ......... 4.4
Venture capital availability* .................................22 ......... 3.5
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................127 ....... 63.7
No. days to start a business ............................112 .......... 33
No. procedures to start a business ..................132 .......... 13
Intensity of local competition*.............................37 ......... 5.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........82 ....... 25.9
Quality of management schools* ........................68 ......... 4.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............16 ......... 4.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............115 ....... 73.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................74 ....... 38.3
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............71 ....... 35.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................71 ....... 23.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......48 ....... 11.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........76 ......... 9.5
Use of virtual social networks* .........................108 ......... 4.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................71 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* .....................................23 ......... 4.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............35 ......... 9.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................89 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................47 ......... 4.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................45 ......... 4.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................22 ......... 4.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....59 ....... 0.53
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................46 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................69 .. 2,776.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................48 ....... 99.5
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............120 ......... 2.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................111 ......... 2.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................51 ......... 5.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................9 ....... 0.06
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..51 ..... 28.88
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....109 ....... 1.29

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..49 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......29 ......... 3.9
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...37 ......... 4.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........100 ......... 7.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......39 ......... 4.8
Internet access in schools* ................................31 ......... 5.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................39 ......... 4.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................62 ....... 0.21

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................57 ......... 3.9
Quality of math & science education* .................33 ......... 4.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..90 ....... 81.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................65 ....... 94.3

168 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Colombia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 66 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 73 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................96 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 92 .....3.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 95 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................80 ....4.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 96 .....3.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 67 .....5.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 74 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................64 ....3.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 76 .....3.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 77 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 32 .....4.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................47 ....3.8

Colombia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 70 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 38 .....4.4

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................117 ......... 2.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................57 ......... 4.2
Judicial independence* ......................................96 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....97 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....89 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ..........................89 ......... 3.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........40 .......... 53
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................43 .......... 34
No. days to enforce a contract ........................139 ..... 1,346

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................91 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* .................................53 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................139 ....... 74.4
No. days to start a business ..............................62 .......... 13
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*.............................79 ......... 4.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........61 ....... 42.9
Quality of management schools* ........................74 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............52 ......... 3.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................87 ....... 98.5
Individuals using Internet, %...............................70 ....... 40.4
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............76 ....... 29.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................72 ....... 23.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......70 ......... 6.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........90 ......... 3.7
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................75 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................93 ......... 4.4
Capacity for innovation* .....................................66 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............68 ......... 1.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................70 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................45 ......... 4.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................99 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................62 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....16 ....... 0.84
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................84 ......... 4.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................90 .. 1,254.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................113 ....... 83.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................72 ....... 16.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................73 ....... 21.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................94 ......... 4.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................69 ....... 0.28
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..75 ..... 34.81
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..67 ......... 4.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......76 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...55 ......... 4.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............66 ....... 21.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......82 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................76 ......... 4.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................73 ......... 4.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................11 ....... 0.74

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................77 ......... 3.6
Quality of math & science education* ...............107 ......... 3.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..43 ....... 97.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................70 ....... 93.4

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 169

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Costa Rica
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 53 ..4.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 58 .....4.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................82 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 74 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 94 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................33 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 76 .....3.8
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 6 .....6.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 23 .....5.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................59 ....3.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 71 .....3.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 37 .....3.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 61 .....4.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................49 ....3.7

Costa Rica

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 46 .....3.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 53 .....4.0

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................139 ......... 2.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................65 ......... 4.1
Judicial independence* ......................................40 ......... 4.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....73 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....47 ......... 4.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................68 ......... 3.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........50 .......... 58
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ........................122 ........ 852

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................57 ......... 5.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................101 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................122 ....... 55.0
No. days to start a business ............................132 .......... 60
No. procedures to start a business ..................126 .......... 12
Intensity of local competition*.............................60 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........60 ....... 43.0
Quality of management schools* ........................19 ......... 5.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............75 ......... 3.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................96 ....... 92.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................68 ....... 42.1
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............65 ....... 45.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................68 ....... 33.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......61 ......... 8.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........101 ......... 2.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................43 ......... 5.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................50 ......... 5.1
Capacity for innovation* .....................................43 ......... 3.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............58 ......... 1.6
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................34 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................38 ......... 5.1
Extent of staff training* .......................................29 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................78 ......... 3.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....67 ....... 0.50
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................56 ......... 4.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................82 .. 2,023.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................126 ....... 69.5
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................40 ....... 36.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................51 ..... 111.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................56 ......... 5.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................18 ....... 0.09
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..24 ..... 20.46
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......91 ....... 1.63

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..48 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......63 ......... 0.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...43 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............50 ....... 27.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......54 ......... 4.6
Internet access in schools* ................................58 ......... 4.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................87 ......... 4.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................46 ....... 0.32

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................21 ......... 4.9
Quality of math & science education* .................41 ......... 4.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..30 ..... 101.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................57 ....... 96.2

170 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Côte d’Ivoire
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............120 ..3.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 122 .....3.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................127 ....3.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 128 .....2.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 113 .....3.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................122 ....3.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 99 .....3.1
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 119 .....3.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 130 .....3.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................116 ....2.9
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 117 .....2.1
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 105 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 112 .....3.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................120 ....2.8

Côte d’Ivoire

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 93 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 129 .....2.6

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................114 ......... 2.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................126 ......... 2.9
Judicial independence* ....................................137 ......... 2.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..119 ......... 2.9
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..120 ......... 2.8
Intellectual property protection* ........................122 ......... 2.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........88 .......... 81
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................36 .......... 33
No. days to enforce a contract ........................114 ........ 770

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................77 ......... 4.8
Venture capital availability* ...............................140 ......... 1.7
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................76 ....... 39.5
No. days to start a business ............................108 .......... 32
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*.............................78 ......... 4.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......118 ......... 8.3
Quality of management schools* ........................83 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............86 ......... 3.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............101 ....... 86.1
Individuals using Internet, %.............................136 ......... 2.2
Households w/ personal computer, % .............135 ......... 1.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................129 ......... 1.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....117 ......... 0.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................84 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................66 ......... 4.8
Capacity for innovation* ...................................139 ......... 2.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............111 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................102 ......... 4.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................120 ......... 3.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................44 ......... 4.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................94 ......... 3.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...104 ....... 0.33
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................91 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................116 ..... 304.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................98 ....... 92.1
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................67 ....... 18.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................129 ......... 0.9
Accessibility of digital content* .........................134 ......... 3.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................75 ....... 0.30
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 111 ..... 63.98
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....114 ....... 1.22

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..86 ......... 4.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .110 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....127 ......... 3.2
Internet access in schools* ..............................138 ......... 1.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................108 ......... 3.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................95 ......... 3.3
Quality of math & science education* .................73 ......... 4.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 139 ....... 27.1
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................128 ....... 56.2

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 171

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Croatia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 51 ..4.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 45 .....4.2

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................70 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 90 .....3.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 60 .....4.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................41 ....5.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 57 .....4.3
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 26 .....6.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 51 .....5.1

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................47 ....4.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 39 .....4.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 81 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 73 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................63 ....3.6

Croatia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 55 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 68 .....3.8

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................90 ......... 3.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................73 ......... 3.9
Judicial independence* ....................................106 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..137 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..129 ......... 2.7
Intellectual property protection* ..........................76 ......... 3.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........40 .......... 53
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................84 ........ 572

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................54 ......... 5.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................112 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................44 ....... 32.8
No. days to start a business ..............................43 ............ 9
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................120 ......... 4.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........50 ....... 54.1
Quality of management schools* ........................87 ......... 3.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............129 ......... 2.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................52 ..... 116.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................33 ....... 70.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............46 ....... 60.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................41 ....... 61.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......36 ....... 19.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........35 ....... 34.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................90 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................77 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* .....................................72 ......... 3.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............34 ......... 9.8
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................52 ......... 5.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................74 ......... 4.5
Extent of staff training* .....................................124 ......... 3.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................111 ......... 3.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....40 ....... 0.64
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................104 ......... 3.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................66 .. 2,865.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................62 ....... 19.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................35 ..... 224.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................47 ......... 5.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................56 ....... 0.24
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..41 ..... 25.82
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..76 ......... 4.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......39 ......... 1.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...82 ......... 4.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............44 ....... 30.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......66 ......... 4.3
Internet access in schools* ................................49 ......... 4.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................117 ......... 3.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................51 ....... 0.29

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................99 ......... 3.2
Quality of math & science education* .................26 ......... 4.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..51 ....... 95.7
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................39 ....... 98.8

172 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Cyprus
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 35 ..4.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 32 .....4.7

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................34 ....4.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 41 .....4.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 26 .....5.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................12 ....5.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 21 .....6.1
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 28 .....6.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 16 .....5.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................48 ....4.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 44 .....4.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 60 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 65 .....4.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................51 ....3.7

Cyprus

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 45 .....3.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 55 .....4.0

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................27 ......... 4.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................44 ......... 4.4
Judicial independence* ......................................39 ......... 4.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....32 ......... 4.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....18 ......... 4.7
Intellectual property protection* ..........................44 ......... 4.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........34 .......... 48
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............121 .......... 43
No. days to enforce a contract ........................112 ........ 735

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................42 ......... 5.5
Venture capital availability* .................................45 ......... 2.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................17 ....... 23.0
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................43 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........48 ....... 54.6
Quality of management schools* ........................30 ......... 5.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............55 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................89 ....... 97.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................44 ....... 57.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............42 ....... 63.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................45 ....... 57.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......37 ....... 18.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........41 ....... 30.8
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................49 ......... 5.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................43 ......... 5.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................89 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............38 ......... 7.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................62 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................48 ......... 4.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................85 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................60 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....51 ....... 0.56
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................101 ......... 3.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................50 .. 4,793.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................27 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................31 ....... 53.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................18 .. 1,121.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................42 ......... 5.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................22 ....... 0.12
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..32 ..... 22.95
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....107 ....... 1.31

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..65 ......... 4.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......32 ......... 2.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...73 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............41 ....... 31.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......38 ......... 4.9
Internet access in schools* ................................36 ......... 5.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................62 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................22 ......... 4.8
Quality of math & science education* .................13 ......... 5.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..41 ....... 98.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................45 ....... 98.3

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 173

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Czech Republic
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 42 ..4.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 42 .....4.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................49 ....4.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 46 .....4.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 56 .....4.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................53 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 23 .....5.9
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 99 .....4.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 50 .....5.1

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................38 ....4.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 29 .....5.2
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 31 .....4.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 93 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................43 ....4.0

Czech Republic

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 40 .....3.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 44 .....4.3

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................106 ......... 3.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................41 ......... 4.6
Judicial independence* ......................................75 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..115 ......... 3.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..118 ......... 2.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................56 ......... 3.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........20 .......... 35
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................8 .......... 27
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................93 ........ 611

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................43 ......... 5.5
Venture capital availability* .................................84 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................110 ....... 49.2
No. days to start a business ..............................87 .......... 20
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*.............................13 ......... 5.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........30 ....... 63.5
Quality of management schools* ........................95 ......... 3.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............122 ......... 2.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................42 ..... 123.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................27 ....... 73.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............36 ....... 69.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................33 ....... 66.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......39 ....... 15.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........21 ....... 43.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................35 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................49 ......... 5.1
Capacity for innovation* .....................................22 ......... 4.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............29 ....... 14.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................23 ......... 5.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................8 ......... 5.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................48 ......... 4.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................114 ......... 3.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....53 ....... 0.54
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................103 ......... 3.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................23 .. 8,110.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................45 ....... 99.6
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................16 ....... 91.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................30 ..... 387.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................21 ......... 6.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................114 ....... 0.50
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 100 ..... 43.27
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......68 ....... 1.87

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..82 ......... 4.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......31 ......... 2.6
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...86 ......... 4.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............19 ....... 40.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......49 ......... 4.7
Internet access in schools* ................................21 ......... 5.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................88 ......... 4.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................54 ....... 0.26

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................59 ......... 3.9
Quality of math & science education* .................78 ......... 3.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..67 ....... 90.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

174 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Denmark
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 8 ..5.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 4 .....5.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................12 ....5.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 14 .....5.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 19 .....5.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................7 ....6.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 14 .....6.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 22 .....6.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 18 .....5.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................6 ....5.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 1 .....6.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 7 .....5.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 24 .....5.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................13 ....5.3

Denmark

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 9 .....5.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 19 .....5.2

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................17 ......... 4.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................12 ......... 5.4
Judicial independence* ......................................13 ......... 6.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....13 ......... 5.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....20 ......... 4.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................21 ......... 5.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............7 .......... 24
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................48 .......... 35
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................38 ........ 410

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................20 ......... 6.2
Venture capital availability* .................................69 ......... 2.6
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................28 ....... 27.7
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*.............................29 ......... 5.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........15 ....... 74.4
Quality of management schools* ........................25 ......... 5.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............63 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................33 ..... 128.5
Individuals using Internet, %.................................6 ....... 90.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .................6 ....... 90.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................7 ....... 90.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........3 ....... 37.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............6 ....... 80.2
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................29 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................18 ......... 5.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................13 ......... 4.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................7 ..... 196.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................22 ......... 5.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................20 ......... 5.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................10 ......... 5.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................33 ......... 4.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....13 ....... 0.86
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................67 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................30 .. 6,952.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................81 ....... 97.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................8 ..... 159.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................4 .. 2,180.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................17 ......... 6.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................10 ....... 0.06
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..66 ..... 31.85
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......64 ....... 1.89

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..17 ......... 5.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......11 ....... 41.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...13 ......... 5.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............6 ....... 45.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......20 ......... 5.5
Internet access in schools* ................................19 ......... 5.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................26 ......... 5.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................28 ....... 0.55

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................19 ......... 5.0
Quality of math & science education* .................38 ......... 4.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....7 ..... 118.7
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 175

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Dominican Republic
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 90 ..3.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 87 .....3.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................95 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 109 .....3.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 75 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................98 ....3.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 98 .....3.1
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 79 .....4.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 105 .....3.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................86 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 93 .....2.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 82 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 72 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................66 ....3.5

Dominican Republic

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 79 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 59 .....3.9

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................124 ......... 2.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................68 ......... 4.0
Judicial independence* ....................................120 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....95 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..119 ......... 2.9
Intellectual property protection* ........................119 ......... 2.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........77 .......... 76
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................43 .......... 34
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................53 ........ 460

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................60 ......... 5.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................111 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................89 ....... 42.5
No. days to start a business ..............................81 .......... 19
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................56 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........73 ....... 34.0
Quality of management schools* ........................88 ......... 3.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............93 ......... 3.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................99 ....... 87.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................79 ....... 35.5
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............89 ....... 18.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................89 ....... 11.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......82 ......... 4.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........81 ......... 7.7
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................58 ......... 5.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................57 ......... 4.9
Capacity for innovation* ...................................118 ......... 2.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............81 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................47 ......... 5.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................49 ......... 4.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................76 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................98 ......... 3.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....55 ....... 0.54
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................80 ......... 4.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................89 .. 1,529.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................117 ....... 81.2
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................80 ....... 11.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................74 ....... 20.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................78 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................109 ....... 0.44
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..70 ..... 32.53
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..53 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......79 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...41 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............87 ....... 15.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......86 ......... 4.0
Internet access in schools* ..............................102 ......... 3.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................60 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................34 ....... 0.47

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................137 ......... 2.4
Quality of math & science education* ...............142 ......... 2.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..97 ....... 76.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................90 ....... 89.5

176 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Ecuador
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 91 ..3.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 96 .....3.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................113 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 118 .....3.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 96 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................89 ....4.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 78 .....3.7
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 91 .....4.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 84 .....4.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................88 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 85 .....2.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 92 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 94 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................90 ....3.2

Ecuador

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 90 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 82 .....3.5

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................126 ......... 2.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................78 ......... 3.8
Judicial independence* ....................................128 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..130 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..138 ......... 2.5
Intellectual property protection* ........................115 ......... 2.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........67 .......... 68
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................86 ........ 588

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................102 ......... 4.5
Venture capital availability* .................................68 ......... 2.6
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................56 ....... 34.6
No. days to start a business ............................129 .......... 56
No. procedures to start a business ..................132 .......... 13
Intensity of local competition*...........................103 ......... 4.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........64 ....... 39.8
Quality of management schools* ........................94 ......... 3.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............60 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................76 ..... 104.5
Individuals using Internet, %...............................88 ....... 31.4
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............78 ....... 28.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................81 ....... 16.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......80 ......... 4.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........73 ....... 10.3
Use of virtual social networks* .........................113 ......... 4.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................101 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* .....................................82 ......... 3.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............97 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ...................n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-consumer Internet use* .................n/a ......... n/a
Extent of staff training* .......................................90 ......... 3.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................82 ......... 3.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....79 ....... 0.46
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*.......................n/a ......... n/a

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................93 .. 1,208.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................95 ....... 94.6
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................48 ....... 27.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................77 ....... 19.7
Accessibility of digital content* .........................109 ......... 4.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................93 ....... 0.37
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..97 ..... 41.94
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..89 ......... 4.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......87 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...83 ......... 4.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............81 ....... 18.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......87 ......... 4.0
Internet access in schools* ................................98 ......... 3.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................72 ......... 4.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................58 ....... 0.24

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................93 ......... 3.3
Quality of math & science education* ...............102 ......... 3.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..79 ....... 87.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................79 ....... 91.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 177

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Egypt
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 80 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 79 .....3.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................99 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 96 .....3.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 98 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................82 ....4.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 93 .....3.2
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 8 .....6.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 115 .....3.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................75 ....3.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 69 .....3.4
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 108 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 80 .....3.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................62 ....3.6

Egypt

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 67 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 58 .....3.9

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................122 ......... 2.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................87 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................53 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....86 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..100 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................83 ......... 3.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........53 .......... 61
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............116 .......... 42
No. days to enforce a contract ........................130 ..... 1,010

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................115 ......... 4.2
Venture capital availability* .................................40 ......... 3.0
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................90 ....... 42.6
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................121 ......... 4.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........75 ....... 32.4
Quality of management schools* ......................137 ......... 2.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............95 ......... 3.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................82 ..... 101.1
Individuals using Internet, %...............................73 ....... 38.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............70 ....... 36.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................70 ....... 30.5
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......91 ......... 2.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........46 ....... 24.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................38 ......... 5.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................86 ......... 4.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................80 ......... 3.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............72 ......... 0.6
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................111 ......... 4.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................80 ......... 4.4
Extent of staff training* .....................................129 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................122 ......... 3.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....42 ....... 0.60
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................92 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................86 .. 1,743.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................41 ....... 99.7
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............114 ......... 3.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................105 ......... 3.0
Accessibility of digital content* .........................100 ......... 4.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................8 ....... 0.05
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..13 ..... 17.25
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....101 ....... 1.40

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..98 ......... 4.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......67 ......... 0.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...80 ......... 4.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............43 ....... 30.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....104 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................116 ......... 3.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................94 ......... 3.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................15 ....... 0.68

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................139 ......... 2.3
Quality of math & science education* ...............139 ......... 2.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 101 ....... 72.5
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................113 ....... 72.0

178 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

El Salvador
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 93 ..3.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 103 .....3.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................117 ....3.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 129 .....2.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 87 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................90 ....4.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 92 .....3.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 41 .....5.7
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 117 .....3.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................94 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 91 .....2.8
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 100 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 88 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................85 ....3.3

El Salvador

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 103 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 71 .....3.8

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................137 ......... 2.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................116 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ....................................116 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..123 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..117 ......... 2.9
Intellectual property protection* ........................133 ......... 2.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........86 .......... 80
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................43 .......... 34
No. days to enforce a contract ........................116 ........ 786

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................88 ......... 4.7
Venture capital availability* .................................95 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................60 ....... 35.0
No. days to start a business ..............................75 .......... 17
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*.............................64 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........85 ....... 23.4
Quality of management schools* ........................99 ......... 3.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............113 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................27 ..... 133.5
Individuals using Internet, %.............................102 ....... 17.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............96 ....... 13.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................97 ......... 8.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......85 ......... 3.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........92 ......... 3.6
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................57 ......... 5.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................92 ......... 4.5
Capacity for innovation* ...................................107 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............100 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................117 ......... 4.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................59 ......... 4.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................81 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................126 ......... 3.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....32 ....... 0.67
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................123 ......... 3.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................98 ..... 939.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................90 ....... 95.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............101 ......... 6.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................82 ....... 16.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................68 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................63 ....... 0.26
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..54 ..... 29.39
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..88 ......... 4.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...76 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............95 ....... 12.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......98 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................103 ......... 3.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................113 ......... 3.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................28 ....... 0.55

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................134 ......... 2.5
Quality of math & science education* ...............133 ......... 2.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 105 ....... 67.6
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................103 ....... 84.5

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 179

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Estonia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 22 ..5.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 24 .....5.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................31 ....4.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 27 .....4.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 45 .....4.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................24 ....5.6
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 26 .....5.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 56 .....5.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 30 .....5.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................25 ....5.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 23 .....5.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 29 .....4.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 17 .....5.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................15 ....5.2

Estonia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 23 .....4.6
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 5 .....5.8

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................30 ......... 4.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................3 ......... 5.8
Judicial independence* ......................................21 ......... 5.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....41 ......... 4.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....39 ......... 4.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................34 ......... 4.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........34 .......... 48
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................48 .......... 35
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................43 ........ 425

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................36 ......... 5.8
Venture capital availability* .................................33 ......... 3.2
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................132 ....... 67.3
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................25 ......... 5.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........29 ....... 64.3
Quality of management schools* ........................48 ......... 4.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............35 ......... 4.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................24 ..... 139.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................23 ....... 76.5
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............34 ....... 71.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................29 ....... 70.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......23 ....... 24.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........24 ....... 42.0
Use of virtual social networks* .............................7 ......... 6.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................34 ......... 5.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................33 ......... 3.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............26 ....... 34.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................15 ......... 5.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................15 ......... 5.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................46 ......... 4.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................23 ......... 4.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....18 ....... 0.82
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................14 ......... 5.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................14 .. 9,673.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................24 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................54 ....... 24.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................25 ..... 532.8
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................11 ......... 6.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................85 ....... 0.35
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..55 ..... 29.45
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....7 ......... 5.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......21 ....... 14.9
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...12 ......... 5.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............24 ....... 38.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........8 ......... 5.8
Internet access in schools* ..................................2 ......... 6.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................10 ......... 5.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................8 ....... 0.76

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................49 ......... 4.1
Quality of math & science education* .................19 ......... 5.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..18 ..... 106.6
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................1 ....... 99.8

180 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Ethiopia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............128 ..2.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 130 .....2.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................104 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 83 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 119 .....3.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................140 ....2.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 141 .....1.6
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 126 .....2.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 137 .....2.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................130 ....2.6
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 143 .....1.3
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 140 .....2.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 83 .....3.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................110 ....2.9

Ethiopia

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 127 .....2.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 99 .....3.3

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................70 ......... 3.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................121 ......... 3.1
Judicial independence* ....................................109 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....62 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....75 ......... 3.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................65 ......... 3.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................73 ........ 530

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................132 ......... 3.8
Venture capital availability* ...............................118 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................47 ....... 33.3
No. days to start a business ..............................69 .......... 15
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*...........................139 ......... 3.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......120 ......... 7.6
Quality of management schools* ......................108 ......... 3.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............59 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............144 ....... 16.7
Individuals using Internet, %.............................142 ......... 1.1
Households w/ personal computer, % .............137 ......... 1.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................140 ......... 0.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....139 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........114 ......... 0.3
Use of virtual social networks* .........................142 ......... 3.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................139 ......... 3.7
Capacity for innovation* ...................................133 ......... 2.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............122 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................130 ......... 4.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................134 ......... 3.0
Extent of staff training* .....................................130 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................59 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....75 ....... 0.47
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................105 ......... 3.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................137 ....... 50.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................137 ....... 10.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................95 ......... 7.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................142 ......... 0.2
Accessibility of digital content* .........................140 ......... 3.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................27 ....... 0.15
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 115 ..... 70.62
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....140 ....... 0.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 124 ......... 3.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .120 ......... 3.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............96 ....... 12.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....124 ......... 3.3
Internet access in schools* ..............................119 ......... 2.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................90 ......... 3.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................43 ....... 0.34

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................85 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* ...............105 ......... 3.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 130 ....... 37.6
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................138 ....... 39.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 181

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Finland
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 1 ..6.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 3 .....5.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................3 ....5.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 3 .....5.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 7 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................1 ....6.5
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 2 .....6.9
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 19 .....6.2
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 1 .....6.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................2 ....6.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 6 .....6.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 3 .....6.0
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 10 .....5.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................3 ....5.9

Finland

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 1 .....6.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 9 .....5.7

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................3 ......... 5.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................4 ......... 5.7
Judicial independence* ........................................2 ......... 6.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......2 ......... 6.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......1 ......... 5.9
Intellectual property protection* ............................1 ......... 6.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........10 .......... 25
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................36 .......... 33
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................24 ........ 375

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................3 ......... 6.6
Venture capital availability* .................................13 ......... 3.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................81 ....... 40.6
No. days to start a business ..............................67 .......... 14
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*.............................68 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........3 ....... 93.7
Quality of management schools* ........................10 ......... 5.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............14 ......... 4.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................9 ..... 166.0
Individuals using Internet, %.................................7 ....... 89.4
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............13 ....... 85.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................11 ....... 84.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......16 ....... 29.5
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............5 ....... 87.1
Use of virtual social networks* .............................8 ......... 6.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................6 ......... 6.1
Capacity for innovation* .......................................4 ......... 5.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................3 ..... 279.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................1 ......... 6.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................6 ......... 6.0
Extent of staff training* .........................................2 ......... 5.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................18 ......... 4.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......7 ....... 0.88
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................12 ......... 5.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................7 14,982.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................47 ....... 99.5
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................14 ..... 118.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................13 .. 1,486.7
Accessibility of digital content* .............................5 ......... 6.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................13 ....... 0.07
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..50 ..... 28.85
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......75 ....... 1.83

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....1 ......... 5.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........1 ..... 126.5
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....2 ......... 5.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............8 ....... 43.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......11 ......... 5.8
Internet access in schools* ..................................3 ......... 6.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................15 ......... 5.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................11 ....... 0.74

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................2 ......... 5.8
Quality of math & science education* ...................2 ......... 6.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..16 ..... 107.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

182 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

France
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 26 ..5.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 23 .....5.1

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................27 ....4.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 20 .....5.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 39 .....4.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................26 ....5.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 28 .....5.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 86 .....4.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 21 .....5.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................22 ....5.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 24 .....5.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 18 .....4.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 25 .....5.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................20 ....4.9

France

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 17 .....4.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 32 .....4.8

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................28 ......... 4.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................24 ......... 5.1
Judicial independence* ......................................37 ......... 4.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....37 ......... 4.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....27 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ............................9 ......... 5.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........22 .......... 37
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................15 .......... 29
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................25 ........ 390

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................16 ......... 6.3
Venture capital availability* .................................57 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................130 ....... 65.7
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................28 ......... 5.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........44 ....... 56.7
Quality of management schools* ..........................8 ......... 5.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............49 ......... 3.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................93 ....... 94.8
Individuals using Internet, %...............................16 ....... 79.6
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............24 ....... 78.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................23 ....... 75.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........5 ....... 36.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........33 ....... 36.6
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................24 ......... 6.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................35 ......... 5.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................10 ......... 5.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............14 ..... 108.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................25 ......... 5.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................25 ......... 5.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................41 ......... 4.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................50 ......... 4.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......8 ....... 0.88
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................60 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................18 .. 8,722.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................20 ....... 78.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................31 ..... 354.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................38 ......... 5.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................126 ....... 0.57
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..46 ..... 27.56
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..10 ......... 5.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......13 ....... 30.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...22 ......... 5.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............17 ....... 40.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......29 ......... 5.3
Internet access in schools* ................................59 ......... 4.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................28 ......... 5.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................25 ....... 0.58

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................41 ......... 4.2
Quality of math & science education* .................25 ......... 4.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....8 ..... 113.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 183

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Gabon
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............121 ..3.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ..................... n/a .....n/a

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................123 ....3.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 107 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 129 .....3.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................114 ....3.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 125 .....2.3
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 96 .....4.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 116 .....3.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................122 ....2.8
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 105 .....2.3
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 130 .....2.8
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 120 .....3.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................132 ....2.4

Gabon

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 129 .....2.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 133 .....2.4

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................62 ......... 3.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................134 ......... 2.6
Judicial independence* ....................................117 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....60 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....50 ......... 4.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................99 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ........................131 ..... 1,070

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................121 ......... 4.1
Venture capital availability* ...............................100 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................92 ....... 43.5
No. days to start a business ............................131 .......... 58
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*...........................132 ......... 3.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %.......n/a ......... n/a
Quality of management schools* ......................130 ......... 3.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............117 ......... 3.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................48 ..... 117.3
Individuals using Internet, %.............................123 ......... 8.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............108 ......... 7.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................103 ......... 6.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....114 ......... 0.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................121 ......... 4.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................97 ......... 4.4
Capacity for innovation* ...................................141 ......... 2.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............87 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................104 ......... 4.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................129 ......... 3.2
Extent of staff training* .......................................93 ......... 3.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................90 ......... 3.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...128 ....... 0.19
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................86 ......... 4.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................94 .. 1,127.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................119 ....... 79.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............100 ......... 6.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................94 ......... 8.5
Accessibility of digital content* .........................144 ......... 2.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................116 ....... 0.51
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month .n/a ......... n/a
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 121 ......... 3.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .141 ......... 2.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....134 ......... 3.1
Internet access in schools* ..............................142 ......... 1.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................130 ......... 3.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................91 ....... 0.11

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................127 ......... 2.7
Quality of math & science education* ...............123 ......... 2.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 115 ....... 53.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................95 ....... 88.4

184 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Gambia, The
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 98 ..3.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 101 .....3.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................54 ....4.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 30 .....4.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 116 .....3.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................125 ....3.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 117 .....2.7
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 124 .....2.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 120 .....3.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................92 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 118 .....2.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 50 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 53 .....4.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................73 ....3.4

Gambia, The

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 63 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 79 .....3.6

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................23 ......... 4.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................49 ......... 4.3
Judicial independence* ......................................49 ......... 4.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....21 ......... 4.9
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....26 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................36 ......... 4.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................36 .......... 33
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................36 ........ 407

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................71 ......... 4.9
Venture capital availability* .................................66 ......... 2.6
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................143 ..... 283.5
No. days to start a business ............................103 .......... 27
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*.............................82 ......... 4.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......129 ......... 4.1
Quality of management schools* ........................31 ......... 4.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............13 ......... 4.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............111 ....... 78.9
Individuals using Internet, %.............................117 ....... 10.9
Households w/ personal computer, % .............115 ......... 5.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................122 ......... 2.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....134 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........113 ......... 0.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................97 ......... 5.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................68 ......... 4.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................52 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................64 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................75 ......... 4.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................22 ......... 4.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................27 ......... 4.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...107 ....... 0.32
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................16 ......... 5.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................123 ..... 142.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................108 ....... 85.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............130 ......... 1.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................107 ......... 2.8
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................79 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................80 ....... 0.32
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 136 ... 952.00
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....118 ....... 1.13

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..58 ......... 4.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...59 ......... 4.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......53 ......... 4.6
Internet access in schools* ................................77 ......... 4.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................42 ......... 4.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................29 ......... 4.6
Quality of math & science education* .................74 ......... 4.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 114 ....... 54.1
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................132 ....... 50.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 185

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Georgia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 65 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 88 .....3.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................73 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 100 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 54 .....4.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................48 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 68 .....4.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 11 .....6.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 83 .....4.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................77 ....3.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 75 .....3.2
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 112 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 63 .....4.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................76 ....3.4

Georgia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 97 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 60 .....3.9

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................69 ......... 3.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................79 ......... 3.8
Judicial independence* ......................................95 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....89 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..106 ......... 3.1
Intellectual property protection* ........................126 ......... 2.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ........106 .......... 91
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................36 .......... 33
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................12 ........ 285

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................94 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* ...............................104 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................10 ....... 16.5
No. days to start a business ................................2 ............ 2
No. procedures to start a business ......................3 ............ 2
Intensity of local competition*...........................127 ......... 3.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........77 ....... 30.0
Quality of management schools* ......................110 ......... 3.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............61 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................81 ..... 102.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................76 ....... 36.6
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............91 ....... 18.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................82 ....... 16.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......66 ......... 7.5
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........52 ....... 21.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................60 ......... 5.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................123 ......... 4.0
Capacity for innovation* ...................................116 ......... 2.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............60 ......... 1.4
Business-to-business Internet use* ...................n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-consumer Internet use* .................n/a ......... n/a
Extent of staff training* .....................................101 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................91 ......... 3.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....42 ....... 0.60
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*.......................n/a ......... n/a

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................84 .. 1,940.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................50 ....... 99.1
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................50 ....... 26.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................79 ....... 18.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................70 ......... 5.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................58 ....... 0.24
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....7 ..... 15.29
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 102 ......... 3.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......52 ......... 0.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .119 ......... 3.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............62 ....... 22.2

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......67 ......... 4.2
Internet access in schools* ................................65 ......... 4.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................36 ......... 4.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................62 ....... 0.21

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................114 ......... 3.0
Quality of math & science education* ...............101 ......... 3.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..82 ....... 86.2
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................4 ....... 99.7

186 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Germany
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 13 ..5.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 16 .....5.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................20 ....5.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 11 .....5.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 36 .....4.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................14 ....5.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 10 .....6.5
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 53 .....5.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 19 .....5.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................12 ....5.6
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 14 .....5.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 5 .....5.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 26 .....5.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................14 ....5.2

Germany

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 10 .....5.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 22 .....5.1

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................20 ......... 4.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................27 ......... 5.0
Judicial independence* ........................................7 ......... 6.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....20 ......... 4.9
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....13 ......... 5.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................10 ......... 5.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........12 .......... 26
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................18 .......... 30
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................28 ........ 394

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................17 ......... 6.3
Venture capital availability* .................................34 ......... 3.2
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................106 ....... 46.8
No. days to start a business ..............................69 .......... 15
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*...............................8 ......... 5.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %.......n/a ......... n/a
Quality of management schools* ........................32 ......... 4.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............21 ......... 4.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................28 ..... 132.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................12 ....... 83.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............10 ....... 86.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................13 ....... 83.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........8 ....... 33.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........36 ....... 34.8
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................46 ......... 5.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................16 ......... 5.9
Capacity for innovation* .......................................3 ......... 5.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................5 ..... 209.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................14 ......... 5.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................14 ......... 5.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................13 ......... 5.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................40 ......... 4.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....24 ....... 0.75
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................23 ......... 5.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................27 .. 7,509.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................22 ....... 74.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................19 .. 1,023.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................22 ......... 6.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................33 ....... 0.16
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..88 ..... 37.39
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..20 ......... 5.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......10 ....... 46.5
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...18 ......... 5.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............15 ....... 41.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......25 ......... 5.4
Internet access in schools* ................................45 ......... 4.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................44 ......... 4.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................8 ....... 0.76

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................20 ......... 4.9
Quality of math & science education* .................29 ......... 4.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..23 ..... 103.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 187

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Ghana
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 95 ..3.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 97 .....3.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................64 ....4.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 57 .....3.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 84 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................101 ....3.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 121 .....2.5
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 59 .....5.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 106 .....3.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................102 ....3.1
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 102 .....2.4
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 103 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 89 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................100 ....3.1

Ghana

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 85 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 107 .....3.1

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................40 ......... 4.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................96 ......... 3.6
Judicial independence* ......................................58 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....50 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....78 ......... 3.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................93 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................59 ........ 487

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................86 ......... 4.7
Venture capital availability* ...............................116 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................49 ....... 33.5
No. days to start a business ..............................56 .......... 12
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................53 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......105 ....... 12.1
Quality of management schools* ........................65 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............87 ......... 3.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............103 ....... 84.8
Individuals using Internet, %.............................109 ....... 14.1
Households w/ personal computer, % .............105 ......... 9.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................135 ......... 0.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....116 ......... 0.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........47 ....... 23.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................100 ......... 5.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................115 ......... 4.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................81 ......... 3.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............114 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................85 ......... 4.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................110 ......... 3.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................96 ......... 3.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................71 ......... 4.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...113 ....... 0.30
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................55 ......... 4.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................115 ..... 376.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................111 ....... 84.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............143 ......... 0.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................112 ......... 2.2
Accessibility of digital content* .........................111 ......... 4.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................19 ....... 0.10
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..80 ..... 35.71
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....100 ....... 1.42

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..80 ......... 4.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...93 ......... 3.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......96 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................109 ......... 3.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................95 ......... 3.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................91 ....... 0.11

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................62 ......... 3.8
Quality of math & science education* .................93 ......... 3.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 110 ....... 59.2
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................117 ....... 67.3

188 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Greece
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 64 ..3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 59 .....4.0

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................87 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 103 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 68 .....4.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................47 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 46 .....4.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 73 .....5.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 41 .....5.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................68 ....3.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 43 .....4.5
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 107 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 118 .....3.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................82 ....3.3

Greece

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 80 .....3.1
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 83 .....3.5

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................99 ......... 3.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................103 ......... 3.4
Judicial independence* ......................................98 ......... 3.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..135 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..132 ......... 2.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................64 ......... 3.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........53 .......... 61
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ........................119 ........ 819

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................58 ......... 5.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................134 ......... 1.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................99 ....... 44.6
No. days to start a business ..............................54 .......... 11
No. procedures to start a business ..................123 .......... 11
Intensity of local competition*.............................95 ......... 4.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........5 ....... 89.4
Quality of management schools* ......................104 ......... 3.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............130 ......... 2.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................71 ..... 106.5
Individuals using Internet, %...............................51 ....... 53.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............49 ....... 57.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................49 ....... 50.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......33 ....... 21.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........28 ....... 39.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................87 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................94 ......... 4.4
Capacity for innovation* ...................................104 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............37 ......... 8.6
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................90 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................86 ......... 4.3
Extent of staff training* .....................................115 ......... 3.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................138 ......... 2.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....48 ....... 0.58
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................136 ......... 2.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................41 .. 5,370.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................51 ....... 26.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................43 ..... 154.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................64 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................129 ....... 0.59
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..26 ..... 20.68
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......80 ....... 1.80

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 117 ......... 3.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......37 ......... 1.5
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .127 ......... 3.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............35 ....... 33.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....107 ......... 3.7
Internet access in schools* ................................81 ......... 3.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................122 ......... 3.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................43 ....... 0.34

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................115 ......... 3.0
Quality of math & science education* .................54 ......... 4.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..13 ..... 109.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................55 ....... 97.2

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 189

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Guatemala
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............102 ..3.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 98 .....3.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................118 ....3.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 127 .....2.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 97 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................108 ....3.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 116 .....2.7
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 81 .....4.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 118 .....3.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................93 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 96 .....2.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 49 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 114 .....3.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................84 ....3.3

Guatemala

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 57 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 100 .....3.3

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................140 ......... 2.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................75 ......... 3.9
Judicial independence* ....................................103 ......... 2.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..110 ......... 3.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....98 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ........................121 ......... 2.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........82 .......... 79
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................26 .......... 31
No. days to enforce a contract ........................142 ..... 1,459

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................51 ......... 5.3
Venture capital availability* .................................64 ......... 2.7
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................83 ....... 40.9
No. days to start a business ............................123 .......... 40
No. procedures to start a business ..................126 .......... 12
Intensity of local competition*.............................46 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........97 ....... 17.8
Quality of management schools* ........................43 ......... 4.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............119 ......... 3.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................23 ..... 140.4
Individuals using Internet, %.............................115 ....... 11.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............94 ....... 15.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................120 ......... 2.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......95 ......... 1.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........89 ......... 4.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................78 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................45 ......... 5.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................67 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............90 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................44 ......... 5.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................57 ......... 4.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................40 ......... 4.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................129 ......... 3.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....76 ....... 0.46
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................110 ......... 3.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................107 ..... 644.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................120 ....... 76.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................96 ......... 6.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................86 ....... 13.8
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................80 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................38 ....... 0.17
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 101 ..... 44.12
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......74 ....... 1.85

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..60 ......... 4.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......81 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...44 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......99 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................113 ......... 3.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................102 ......... 3.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................58 ....... 0.24

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................130 ......... 2.6
Quality of math & science education* ...............137 ......... 2.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 106 ....... 64.5
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................107 ....... 75.2

190 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Guinea
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............140 ..2.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ..................... n/a .....n/a

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................139 ....2.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 132 .....2.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 141 .....2.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................132 ....2.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 132 .....2.1
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 108 .....3.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 135 .....2.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................139 ....2.5
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 138 .....1.5
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 128 .....2.9
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 133 .....3.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................136 ....2.3

Guinea

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 131 .....2.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 140 .....2.3

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................135 ......... 2.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................129 ......... 2.8
Judicial independence* ....................................119 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..128 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..122 ......... 2.8
Intellectual property protection* ........................137 ......... 2.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............137 .......... 49
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................10 ........ 276

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................135 ......... 3.6
Venture capital availability* ...............................142 ......... 1.6
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................138 ....... 73.2
No. days to start a business ............................116 .......... 35
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................116 ......... 4.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......110 ....... 11.3
Quality of management schools* ......................139 ......... 2.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............77 ......... 3.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............134 ....... 44.0
Individuals using Internet, %.............................140 ......... 1.3
Households w/ personal computer, % .............136 ......... 1.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................130 ......... 1.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....137 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................124 ......... 4.5

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................135 ......... 3.8
Capacity for innovation* ...................................127 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................103 ......... 4.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................128 ......... 3.3
Extent of staff training* .....................................114 ......... 3.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................72 ......... 4.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...140 ....... 0.00
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................88 ......... 4.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................130 ....... 97.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................118 ....... 80.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............128 ......... 1.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................138 ......... 0.5
Accessibility of digital content* .........................143 ......... 2.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................25 ....... 0.14
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 139 2,067.85
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......89 ....... 1.67

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 133 ......... 3.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .133 ......... 2.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....135 ......... 3.1
Internet access in schools* ..............................139 ......... 1.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................129 ......... 3.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................128 ......... 2.7
Quality of math & science education* ...............106 ......... 3.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 127 ....... 41.7
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................137 ....... 41.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 191

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Guyana
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............100 ..3.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 90 .....3.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................81 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 84 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 81 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................105 ....3.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 94 .....3.2
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 110 .....3.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 82 .....4.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................97 ....3.2
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 106 .....2.2
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 54 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 85 .....3.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................103 ....3.0

Guyana

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 107 .....2.8
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 102 .....3.2

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................75 ......... 3.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................114 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ......................................93 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....87 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....95 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................78 ......... 3.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................85 ........ 581

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................70 ......... 5.0
Venture capital availability* .................................52 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................67 ....... 36.1
No. days to start a business ..............................87 .......... 20
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*.............................59 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......107 ....... 12.0
Quality of management schools* ........................64 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............78 ......... 3.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............118 ....... 69.9
Individuals using Internet, %...............................83 ....... 32.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............110 ......... 7.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................102 ......... 6.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......89 ......... 2.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................50 ......... 5.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................74 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* .....................................35 ......... 3.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................61 ......... 5.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................71 ......... 4.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................61 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................39 ......... 4.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...120 ....... 0.25
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................53 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................95 .. 1,085.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................81 ....... 97.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............109 ......... 4.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................92 ......... 9.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................76 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................52 ....... 0.21
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 109 ..... 53.03
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....135 ....... 0.50

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..95 ......... 4.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...84 ......... 4.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............94 ....... 12.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......65 ......... 4.3
Internet access in schools* ................................91 ......... 3.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................81 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................42 ......... 4.2
Quality of math & science education* .................70 ......... 4.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..57 ....... 93.3
Adult literacy rate, % .........................................n/a ......... n/a

192 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Haiti
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............141 ..2.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 142 .....2.3

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................141 ....2.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 143 .....2.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 142 .....2.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................113 ....3.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 144 .....1.5
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 24 .....6.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 143 .....2.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................143 ....2.2
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 134 .....1.6
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 142 .....2.6
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 144 .....2.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................141 ....2.2

Haiti

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 134 .....2.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 142 .....2.0

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................143 ......... 1.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................143 ......... 2.1
Judicial independence* ....................................142 ......... 1.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..143 ......... 2.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..143 ......... 2.1
Intellectual property protection* ........................144 ......... 1.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................48 .......... 35
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................73 ........ 530

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................130 ......... 3.8
Venture capital availability* ...............................144 ......... 1.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................82 ....... 40.8
No. days to start a business ............................140 ........ 105
No. procedures to start a business ..................126 .......... 12
Intensity of local competition*...........................134 ......... 3.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %.......n/a ......... n/a
Quality of management schools* ......................140 ......... 2.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............140 ......... 2.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............136 ....... 41.5
Individuals using Internet, %.............................122 ......... 8.4
Households w/ personal computer, % .............114 ......... 5.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................116 ......... 2.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....143 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................111 ......... 4.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................130 ......... 3.9
Capacity for innovation* ...................................138 ......... 2.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................131 ......... 3.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................122 ......... 3.5
Extent of staff training* .....................................144 ......... 2.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................142 ......... 2.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...138 ....... 0.09
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................133 ......... 3.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................135 ....... 73.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop .....................n/a ......... n/a
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............142 ......... 0.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................122 ......... 1.2
Accessibility of digital content* .........................138 ......... 3.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................48 ....... 0.20
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month .n/a ......... n/a
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 135 ......... 3.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .137 ......... 2.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....140 ......... 2.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................137 ......... 1.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................142 ......... 2.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................141 ......... 2.1
Quality of math & science education* ...............130 ......... 2.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % .n/a ......... n/a
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................134 ....... 48.7

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 193

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Honduras
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............109 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 99 .....3.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................112 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 111 .....3.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 109 .....3.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................102 ....3.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 107 .....2.9
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 78 .....5.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 108 .....3.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................111 ....3.0
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 101 .....2.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 75 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 127 .....3.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................108 ....2.9

Honduras

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 98 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 114 .....3.0

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................94 ......... 3.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................102 ......... 3.4
Judicial independence* ......................................69 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..102 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....77 ......... 3.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................90 ......... 3.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........75 .......... 73
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............134 .......... 47
No. days to enforce a contract ........................127 ........ 920

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................78 ......... 4.8
Venture capital availability* .................................79 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................79 ....... 40.3
No. days to start a business ..............................67 .......... 14
No. procedures to start a business ..................132 .......... 13
Intensity of local competition*.............................89 ......... 4.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........89 ....... 20.6
Quality of management schools* ......................109 ......... 3.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............104 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................77 ..... 104.0
Individuals using Internet, %.............................105 ....... 15.9
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............99 ....... 12.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................101 ......... 6.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....110 ......... 0.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........91 ......... 3.7
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................93 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................60 ......... 4.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................98 ......... 2.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................65 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................81 ......... 4.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................63 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................128 ......... 3.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....93 ....... 0.38
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................131 ......... 3.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................99 ..... 883.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................104 ....... 89.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............107 ......... 4.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................96 ......... 7.7
Accessibility of digital content* .........................104 ......... 4.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................95 ....... 0.37
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..79 ..... 35.39
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..84 ......... 4.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...67 ......... 4.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............93 ....... 12.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....113 ......... 3.6
Internet access in schools* ..............................115 ......... 3.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................109 ......... 3.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................135 ......... 2.4
Quality of math & science education* ...............138 ......... 2.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..99 ....... 74.3
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................102 ....... 84.8

194 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Hong Kong SAR
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 14 ..5.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 13 .....5.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................8 ....5.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 15 .....5.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 2 .....5.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................19 ....5.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 27 .....5.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 17 .....6.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 52 .....5.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................20 ....5.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 12 .....5.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 19 .....4.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 30 .....4.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................12 ....5.3

Hong Kong SAR

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 15 .....5.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 12 .....5.5

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................51 ......... 3.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................11 ......... 5.5
Judicial independence* ......................................12 ......... 6.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......6 ......... 5.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......7 ......... 5.4
Intellectual property protection* ..........................11 ......... 5.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........30 .......... 43
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................8 .......... 27
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................18 ........ 360

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................8 ......... 6.5
Venture capital availability* ...................................2 ......... 4.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................17 ....... 23.0
No. days to start a business ................................5 ............ 3
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*...............................9 ......... 5.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........35 ....... 60.4
Quality of management schools* ........................17 ......... 5.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............31 ......... 4.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................1 ..... 214.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................24 ....... 74.5
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............26 ....... 77.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................22 ....... 76.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......14 ....... 31.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........15 ....... 55.2
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................12 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................7 ......... 6.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................37 ......... 3.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. .............n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................18 ......... 5.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................22 ......... 5.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................24 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................32 ......... 4.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)....n/a ......... n/a
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................19 ......... 5.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................40 .. 5,530.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................1 .. 1,046.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................24 ..... 570.5
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................18 ......... 6.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................3 ....... 0.02
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..62 ..... 30.75
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..19 ......... 5.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. ......n/a ......... n/a
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...15 ......... 5.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............31 ....... 36.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......19 ......... 5.5
Internet access in schools* ................................16 ......... 6.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................22 ......... 5.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)........................n/a ......... n/a

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................23 ......... 4.8
Quality of math & science education* .................11 ......... 5.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..92 ....... 80.1
Adult literacy rate, % .........................................n/a ......... n/a

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 195

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Hungary
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 44 ..4.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 43 .....4.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................47 ....4.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 49 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 51 .....4.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................59 ....4.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 58 .....4.3
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 74 .....5.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 42 .....5.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................46 ....4.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 42 .....4.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 61 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 69 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................42 ....4.0

Hungary

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 41 .....3.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 40 .....4.3

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................58 ......... 3.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................48 ......... 4.4
Judicial independence* ......................................72 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..117 ......... 3.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..135 ......... 2.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................48 ......... 4.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........28 .......... 41
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................48 .......... 35
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................29 ........ 395

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................55 ......... 5.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................115 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................114 ....... 50.3
No. days to start a business ..............................10 ............ 5
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*.............................38 ......... 5.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........34 ....... 60.7
Quality of management schools* ........................81 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............110 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................49 ..... 117.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................43 ....... 59.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............37 ....... 69.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................34 ....... 65.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......28 ....... 22.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........70 ....... 11.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................77 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................64 ......... 4.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................45 ......... 3.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............28 ....... 22.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................66 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................58 ......... 4.7
Extent of staff training* .....................................110 ......... 3.5

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................102 ......... 3.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....31 ....... 0.69
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................120 ......... 3.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................59 .. 3,737.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................79 ....... 12.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................37 ..... 219.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................26 ......... 6.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................77 ....... 0.31
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..77 ..... 34.82
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......67 ....... 1.88

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..73 ......... 4.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......28 ......... 5.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...85 ......... 4.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............28 ....... 36.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......69 ......... 4.2
Internet access in schools* ................................30 ......... 5.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................80 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................36 ....... 0.45

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................90 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* .................39 ......... 4.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..37 ..... 100.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................14 ....... 99.0

196 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Iceland
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 17 ..5.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 15 .....5.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................21 ....5.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 25 .....4.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 22 .....5.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................2 ....6.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 1 .....6.9
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 5 .....6.6
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 9 .....5.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................21 ....5.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 8 .....6.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 20 .....4.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 50 .....4.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................25 ....4.6

Iceland

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 24 .....4.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 33 .....4.8

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................67 ......... 3.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................26 ......... 5.0
Judicial independence* ......................................18 ......... 5.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....27 ......... 4.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....29 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................26 ......... 5.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........34 .......... 48
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................8 .......... 27
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................41 ........ 417

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................7 ......... 6.5
Venture capital availability* .................................65 ......... 2.6
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................46 ....... 33.0
No. days to start a business ..............................10 ............ 5
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................84 ......... 4.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........11 ....... 78.6
Quality of management schools* ........................18 ......... 5.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............30 ......... 4.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................72 ..... 106.1
Individuals using Internet, %.................................1 ....... 95.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .................1 ....... 94.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................3 ....... 92.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........7 ....... 33.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........14 ....... 57.0
Use of virtual social networks* .............................1 ......... 6.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................2 ......... 6.3
Capacity for innovation* .....................................21 ......... 4.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............17 ....... 95.5
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................30 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................29 ......... 5.3
Extent of staff training* .......................................21 ......... 4.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................57 ......... 4.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....53 ....... 0.54
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................62 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................1 53,637.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................3 ..... 287.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................1 .. 3,025.1
Accessibility of digital content* .............................3 ......... 6.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................23 ....... 0.13
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..34 ..... 23.23
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..32 ......... 5.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......22 ....... 14.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...25 ......... 4.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............5 ....... 46.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......15 ......... 5.6
Internet access in schools* ..................................1 ......... 6.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................27 ......... 5.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................76 ....... 0.16

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................8 ......... 5.4
Quality of math & science education* .................22 ......... 5.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..15 ..... 108.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 197

3: Country/Economy Profiles

India
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 68 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 69 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................85 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 75 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 99 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................68 ....4.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 111 .....2.8
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 1 .....7.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 95 .....4.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................81 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 121 .....2.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 45 .....3.7
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 40 .....4.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................56 ....3.7

India

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 43 .....3.6
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 73 .....3.7

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................53 ......... 3.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................52 ......... 4.3
Judicial independence* ......................................45 ......... 4.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....59 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....52 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................63 ......... 3.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........58 .......... 63
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............131 .......... 46
No. days to enforce a contract ........................140 ..... 1,420

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................47 ......... 5.3
Venture capital availability* .................................26 ......... 3.4
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................125 ....... 61.8
No. days to start a business ............................103 .......... 27
No. procedures to start a business ..................126 .......... 12
Intensity of local competition*.............................34 ......... 5.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........96 ....... 17.9
Quality of management schools* ........................33 ......... 4.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............83 ......... 3.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............117 ....... 72.0
Individuals using Internet, %.............................119 ....... 10.1
Households w/ personal computer, % .............112 ......... 6.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................108 ......... 4.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....102 ......... 1.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........102 ......... 1.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................96 ......... 5.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................40 ......... 5.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................42 ......... 3.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............62 ......... 1.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................59 ......... 5.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................76 ......... 4.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................54 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................45 ......... 4.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....55 ....... 0.54
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................24 ......... 5.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................102 ..... 744.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................113 ....... 83.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................99 ......... 6.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................106 ......... 2.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................91 ......... 4.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................6 ....... 0.04
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....4 ..... 14.75
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..36 ......... 5.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......57 ......... 0.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...27 ......... 4.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......64 ......... 4.3
Internet access in schools* ................................75 ......... 4.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................54 ......... 4.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................70 ....... 0.18

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................34 ......... 4.4
Quality of math & science education* .................30 ......... 4.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 108 ....... 63.2
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................121 ....... 62.8

198 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Indonesia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 76 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 80 .....3.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................78 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 82 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 73 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................71 ....4.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 89 .....3.3
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 39 .....5.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 63 .....4.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................70 ....3.6
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 92 .....2.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 40 .....3.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 58 .....4.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................86 ....3.3

Indonesia

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 101 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 72 .....3.7

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................77 ......... 3.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................58 ......... 4.2
Judicial independence* ......................................76 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....66 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....63 ......... 3.8
Intellectual property protection* ..........................60 ......... 3.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........97 .......... 86
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................61 ........ 498

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................72 ......... 4.9
Venture capital availability* .................................21 ......... 3.6
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................54 ....... 34.5
No. days to start a business ............................127 .......... 47
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*.............................96 ......... 4.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........86 ....... 23.1
Quality of management schools* ........................70 ......... 4.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............29 ......... 4.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................79 ..... 103.1
Individuals using Internet, %.............................101 ....... 18.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............101 ....... 12.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................100 ......... 7.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....100 ......... 1.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........48 ....... 22.2
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................51 ......... 5.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................56 ......... 4.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................30 ......... 3.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............101 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................97 ......... 4.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................44 ......... 4.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................39 ......... 4.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................65 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....67 ....... 0.50
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................61 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................106 ..... 654.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................94 ......... 7.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................103 ......... 3.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................81 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................39 ....... 0.17
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..57 ..... 29.70
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......81 ....... 1.79

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..66 ......... 4.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......92 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...54 ......... 4.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............98 ......... 7.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......73 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................56 ......... 4.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................82 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................62 ....... 0.21

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................47 ......... 4.1
Quality of math & science education* .................45 ......... 4.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..96 ....... 77.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................74 ....... 92.6

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 199

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Iran, Islamic Rep.
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............101 ..3.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 104 .....3.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................72 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 67 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 80 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................109 ....3.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 97 .....3.1
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 115 .....3.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 69 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................106 ....3.1
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 108 .....2.2
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 119 .....3.0
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 71 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................99 ....3.1

Iran, Islamic Rep.

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 106 .....2.8
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 94 .....3.4

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................50 ......... 3.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................99 ......... 3.5
Judicial independence* ......................................63 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....77 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..104 ......... 3.1
Intellectual property protection* ........................112 ......... 2.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................62 ........ 505

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................114 ......... 4.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................129 ......... 1.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................96 ....... 44.1
No. days to start a business ..............................62 .......... 13
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*...........................106 ......... 4.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........53 ....... 48.6
Quality of management schools* ........................93 ......... 3.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............66 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............113 ....... 74.9
Individuals using Internet, %...............................96 ....... 21.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............72 ....... 33.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................76 ....... 20.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......90 ......... 2.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................144 ......... 3.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................119 ......... 4.1
Capacity for innovation* .....................................59 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............104 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................133 ......... 3.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................116 ......... 3.6
Extent of staff training* .....................................134 ......... 3.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................81 ......... 3.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....70 ....... 0.49
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................82 ......... 4.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................68 .. 2,778.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................89 ....... 95.8
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............116 ......... 3.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................126 ......... 1.0
Accessibility of digital content* .........................114 ......... 4.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................57 ....... 0.24
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 118 ..... 76.88
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....105 ....... 1.33

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..91 ......... 4.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......83 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...96 ......... 3.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............89 ....... 15.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......78 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ..............................117 ......... 2.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................61 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................70 ....... 0.18

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................94 ......... 3.3
Quality of math & science education* .................32 ......... 4.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..83 ....... 85.7
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................101 ....... 85.0

200 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Ireland
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 27 ..5.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 25 .....5.0

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................15 ....5.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 16 .....5.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 24 .....5.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................16 ....5.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 16 .....6.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 61 .....5.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 12 .....5.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................28 ....4.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 21 .....5.6
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 22 .....4.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 43 .....4.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................33 ....4.4

Ireland

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 18 .....4.8
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 56 .....4.0

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................32 ......... 4.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................28 ......... 5.0
Judicial independence* ........................................4 ......... 6.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....29 ......... 4.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....31 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................15 ......... 5.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........19 .......... 34
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................1 .......... 21
No. days to enforce a contract ........................103 ........ 650

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................29 ......... 6.0
Venture capital availability* .................................88 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................24 ....... 26.4
No. days to start a business ..............................49 .......... 10
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*.............................40 ......... 5.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........24 ....... 66.2
Quality of management schools* ........................23 ......... 5.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............80 ......... 3.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................66 ..... 108.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................22 ....... 76.8
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............20 ....... 80.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................19 ....... 78.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......32 ....... 22.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........13 ....... 59.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................32 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................33 ......... 5.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................26 ......... 4.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............21 ....... 76.5
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................32 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................27 ......... 5.3
Extent of staff training* .......................................16 ......... 4.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................44 ......... 4.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....55 ....... 0.54
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................43 ......... 4.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................35 .. 6,315.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................25 ....... 69.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................17 .. 1,154.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................41 ......... 5.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................89 ....... 0.36
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..60 ..... 29.82
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..24 ......... 5.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......16 ....... 29.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...20 ......... 5.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............23 ....... 38.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......46 ......... 4.8
Internet access in schools* ................................51 ......... 4.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................43 ......... 4.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................9 ......... 5.3
Quality of math & science education* .................31 ......... 4.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....4 ..... 121.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 201

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Israel
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 15 ..5.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 20 .....5.2

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................23 ....5.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 28 .....4.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 15 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................22 ....5.6
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 29 .....5.7
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 44 .....5.7
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 32 .....5.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................14 ....5.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 28 .....5.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 6 .....5.7
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 20 .....5.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................7 ....5.5

Israel

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 6 .....5.6
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 14 .....5.4

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................55 ......... 3.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................30 ......... 5.0
Judicial independence* ......................................15 ......... 5.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....46 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....57 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................33 ......... 4.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........17 .......... 31
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................48 .......... 35
No. days to enforce a contract ........................124 ........ 890

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................22 ......... 6.2
Venture capital availability* ...................................3 ......... 4.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................39 ....... 30.5
No. days to start a business ..............................90 .......... 21
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................66 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........32 ....... 62.5
Quality of management schools* ........................40 ......... 4.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................6 ......... 4.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................45 ..... 121.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................34 ....... 70.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............22 ....... 79.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................28 ....... 71.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......22 ....... 24.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........26 ....... 40.6
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................34 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................5 ......... 6.2
Capacity for innovation* .......................................6 ......... 5.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................6 ..... 209.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................42 ......... 5.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................23 ......... 5.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................27 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................41 ......... 4.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....15 ....... 0.85
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................18 ......... 5.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................28 .. 7,507.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................39 ....... 37.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................27 ..... 470.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................33 ......... 5.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................74 ....... 0.30
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....1 ....... 8.11
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....111 ....... 1.27

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..21 ......... 5.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........4 ....... 81.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...21 ......... 5.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............16 ....... 41.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......21 ......... 5.4
Internet access in schools* ................................39 ......... 5.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................30 ......... 4.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................7 ....... 0.89

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................53 ......... 4.0
Quality of math & science education* .................89 ......... 3.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..26 ..... 102.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

202 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Italy
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 50 ..4.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 48 .....4.2

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................83 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 95 .....3.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 69 .....4.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................38 ....5.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 40 .....4.9
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 49 .....5.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 45 .....5.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................45 ....4.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 34 .....4.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 46 .....3.7
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 108 .....3.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................60 ....3.6

Italy

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 37 .....3.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 80 .....3.6

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................116 ......... 2.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................77 ......... 3.9
Judicial independence* ......................................68 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..139 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..131 ......... 2.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................62 ......... 3.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........34 .......... 48
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............110 .......... 41
No. days to enforce a contract ........................132 ..... 1,210

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................69 ......... 5.0
Venture capital availability* ...............................121 ......... 2.0
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................134 ....... 68.3
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................67 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........28 ....... 65.0
Quality of management schools* ........................35 ......... 4.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............121 ......... 2.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................10 ..... 157.9
Individuals using Internet, %...............................45 ....... 56.8
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............39 ....... 66.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................40 ....... 61.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......31 ....... 22.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........38 ....... 33.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................61 ......... 5.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................104 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* .....................................28 ......... 4.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............24 ....... 51.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................101 ......... 4.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................83 ......... 4.4
Extent of staff training* .....................................123 ......... 3.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................118 ......... 3.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....48 ....... 0.58
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................130 ......... 3.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................48 .. 4,877.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................28 ....... 60.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................39 ..... 190.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................87 ......... 4.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................71 ....... 0.29
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..40 ..... 25.51
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......92 ....... 1.62

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..90 ......... 4.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......24 ......... 8.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .100 ......... 3.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............22 ....... 39.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......83 ......... 4.0
Internet access in schools* ................................86 ......... 3.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................92 ......... 3.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................54 ....... 0.26

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................87 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* .................65 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..35 ..... 100.4
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................38 ....... 98.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 203

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Jamaica
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 85 ..3.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 74 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................67 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 59 .....3.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 82 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................77 ....4.5
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 65 .....4.1
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 87 .....4.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 88 .....4.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................89 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 86 .....2.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 86 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 97 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................91 ....3.2

Jamaica

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 81 .....3.1
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 92 .....3.4

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................71 ......... 3.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................82 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................46 ......... 4.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....79 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....90 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ..........................79 ......... 3.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................48 .......... 35
No. days to enforce a contract ........................104 ........ 655

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................44 ......... 5.5
Venture capital availability* ...............................130 ......... 1.9
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................102 ....... 45.6
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................65 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........81 ....... 26.0
Quality of management schools* ........................77 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............120 ......... 3.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................68 ..... 108.1
Individuals using Internet, %...............................87 ....... 31.5
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............84 ....... 22.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................84 ....... 14.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......84 ......... 3.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........104 ......... 1.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................55 ......... 5.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................67 ......... 4.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................85 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............73 ......... 0.6
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................77 ......... 4.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................104 ......... 3.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................58 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................74 ......... 3.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...112 ....... 0.31
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................66 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................81 .. 2,052.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................90 ....... 95.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................46 ....... 29.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................61 ....... 48.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................59 ......... 5.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................61 ....... 0.26
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..98 ..... 42.65
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......59 ....... 1.93

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..83 ......... 4.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...64 ......... 4.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............71 ....... 20.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......76 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................74 ......... 4.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................66 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................76 ......... 3.6
Quality of math & science education* ...............116 ......... 3.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..58 ....... 92.7
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................99 ....... 86.6

204 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Japan
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 21 ..5.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 18 .....5.3

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................26 ....4.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 19 .....5.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 37 .....4.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................28 ....5.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 24 .....5.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 92 .....4.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 13 .....5.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................9 ....5.6
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 13 .....5.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 2 .....6.0
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 27 .....5.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................17 ....5.1

Japan

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 8 .....5.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 31 .....4.9

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................54 ......... 3.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................42 ......... 4.5
Judicial independence* ......................................17 ......... 5.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....36 ......... 4.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....48 ......... 4.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................18 ......... 5.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............3 .......... 21
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................18 .......... 30
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................18 ........ 360

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................11 ......... 6.3
Venture capital availability* .................................42 ......... 3.0
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................112 ....... 50.0
No. days to start a business ..............................94 .......... 23
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*...............................2 ......... 6.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........39 ....... 59.7
Quality of management schools* ........................80 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............48 ......... 3.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................74 ..... 105.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................17 ....... 79.5
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............17 ....... 83.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................15 ....... 81.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......17 ....... 27.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............3 ..... 101.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................74 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................4 ......... 6.2
Capacity for innovation* .......................................1 ......... 5.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................4 ..... 251.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................7 ......... 6.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................7 ......... 5.9
Extent of staff training* .........................................5 ......... 5.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................46 ......... 4.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......9 ....... 0.86
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................68 ......... 4.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................21 .. 8,405.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................56 ....... 23.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................21 ..... 743.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................13 ......... 6.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................136 ....... 0.84
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..21 ..... 19.86
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..27 ......... 5.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........2 ..... 106.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...50 ......... 4.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............26 ....... 37.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......42 ......... 4.8
Internet access in schools* ................................43 ......... 4.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................58 ......... 4.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................11 ....... 0.74

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................43 ......... 4.2
Quality of math & science education* .................27 ......... 4.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..25 ..... 102.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 205

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Jordan
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 47 ..4.2

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 47 .....4.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................42 ....4.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 48 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 40 .....4.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................55 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 81 .....3.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 27 .....6.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 34 .....5.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................60 ....3.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 66 .....3.6
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 55 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 56 .....4.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................54 ....3.7

Jordan

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 49 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 54 .....4.0

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................84 ......... 3.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................53 ......... 4.3
Judicial independence* ......................................48 ......... 4.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....43 ......... 4.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....44 ......... 4.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................39 ......... 4.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........50 .......... 58
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ........................107 ........ 689

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................38 ......... 5.7
Venture capital availability* .................................48 ......... 2.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................30 ....... 28.1
No. days to start a business ..............................56 .......... 12
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................31 ......... 5.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........69 ....... 37.7
Quality of management schools* ........................55 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............69 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................47 ..... 118.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................82 ....... 34.9
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............57 ....... 50.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................61 ....... 35.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......87 ......... 3.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........84 ......... 4.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................36 ......... 5.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................28 ......... 5.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................57 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............84 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................50 ......... 5.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................42 ......... 4.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................88 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................43 ......... 4.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....92 ....... 0.39
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................34 ......... 4.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................74 .. 2,412.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................97 ......... 6.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................71 ....... 25.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................48 ......... 5.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................29 ....... 0.15
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..53 ..... 29.18
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......58 ....... 1.94

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..47 ......... 4.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......68 ......... 0.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...46 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......48 ......... 4.7
Internet access in schools* ................................44 ......... 4.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................37 ......... 4.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................91 ....... 0.11

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................31 ......... 4.4
Quality of math & science education* .................28 ......... 4.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..81 ....... 86.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................75 ....... 92.6

206 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Kazakhstan
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 43 ..4.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 55 .....4.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................66 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 77 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 64 .....4.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................50 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 63 .....4.1
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 36 .....5.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 62 .....4.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................42 ....4.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 54 .....4.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 85 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 23 .....5.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................37 ....4.2

Kazakhstan

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 66 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 23 .....5.1

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................44 ......... 4.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................69 ......... 4.0
Judicial independence* ......................................94 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....67 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....76 ......... 3.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................92 ......... 3.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........77 .......... 76
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................20 ........ 370

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................90 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* ...............................105 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................33 ....... 28.6
No. days to start a business ..............................81 .......... 19
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................113 ......... 4.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........58 ....... 43.2
Quality of management schools* ......................103 ......... 3.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............71 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................11 ..... 155.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................62 ....... 45.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............63 ....... 46.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................55 ....... 44.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......68 ......... 7.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........29 ....... 38.4
Use of virtual social networks* .........................115 ......... 4.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................91 ......... 4.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................92 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............65 ......... 1.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................63 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................62 ......... 4.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................72 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................35 ......... 4.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....21 ....... 0.78
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................17 ......... 5.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................47 .. 4,890.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................90 ....... 95.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................60 ....... 21.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................98 ......... 6.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................67 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................42 ....... 0.19
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..47 ..... 28.00
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......79 ....... 1.81

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..92 ......... 4.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......59 ......... 0.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...70 ......... 4.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............48 ....... 28.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......52 ......... 4.6
Internet access in schools* ................................67 ......... 4.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................35 ......... 4.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................3 ....... 0.95

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................101 ......... 3.2
Quality of math & science education* .................81 ......... 3.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..27 ..... 101.9
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................7 ....... 99.7

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 207

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Kenya
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 92 ..3.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 93 .....3.5

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................98 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 87 .....3.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 106 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................110 ....3.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 110 .....2.8
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 105 .....3.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 93 .....4.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................84 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 115 .....2.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 53 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 44 .....4.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................71 ....3.5

Kenya

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 47 .....3.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 84 .....3.5

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................61 ......... 3.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................60 ......... 4.1
Judicial independence* ......................................85 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....72 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....69 ......... 3.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................96 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........80 .......... 78
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............124 .......... 44
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................55 ........ 465

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................74 ......... 4.9
Venture capital availability* .................................32 ......... 3.2
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................98 ....... 44.4
No. days to start a business ............................108 .......... 32
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*.............................63 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......131 ......... 4.0
Quality of management schools* ........................56 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............76 ......... 3.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............120 ....... 67.5
Individuals using Internet, %...............................93 ....... 28.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............122 ......... 4.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................119 ......... 2.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....123 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........116 ......... 0.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................89 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................58 ......... 4.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................46 ......... 3.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............93 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................76 ......... 4.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................72 ......... 4.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................70 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................28 ......... 4.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....85 ....... 0.43
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................30 ......... 5.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................122 ..... 174.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................105 ....... 89.1
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............110 ......... 4.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................104 ......... 3.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................88 ......... 4.7

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................20 ....... 0.11
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 116 ..... 71.60
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..46 ......... 4.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......89 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...38 ......... 4.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......59 ......... 4.4
Internet access in schools* ................................85 ......... 3.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................55 ......... 4.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................106 ....... 0.05

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................37 ......... 4.3
Quality of math & science education* .................76 ......... 3.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 109 ....... 60.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................97 ....... 87.4

208 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Korea, Rep.
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 11 ..5.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 12 .....5.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................32 ....4.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 42 .....4.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 23 .....5.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................23 ....5.6
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 20 .....6.1
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 83 .....4.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 14 .....5.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................4 ....5.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 7 .....6.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 11 .....5.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 3 .....5.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................5 ....5.7

Korea, Rep.

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 12 .....5.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 2 .....6.2

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................118 ......... 2.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................15 ......... 5.4
Judicial independence* ......................................74 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....80 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....96 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................40 ......... 4.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........25 .......... 40
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................36 .......... 33
No. days to enforce a contract ............................3 ........ 230

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................26 ......... 6.1
Venture capital availability* ...............................110 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................36 ....... 29.8
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................11 ......... 5.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........1 ..... 103.1
Quality of management schools* ........................42 ......... 4.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............33 ......... 4.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................65 ..... 108.5
Individuals using Internet, %...............................11 ....... 83.8
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............19 ....... 81.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................1 ....... 97.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........4 ....... 36.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............2 ..... 105.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................33 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................11 ......... 6.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................19 ......... 4.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................9 ..... 172.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................19 ......... 5.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................2 ......... 6.3
Extent of staff training* .......................................42 ......... 4.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................13 ......... 5.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......1 ....... 1.00
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................11 ......... 5.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................13 .. 9,675.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................70 ....... 17.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................3 .. 2,496.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................10 ......... 6.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................82 ....... 0.33
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..81 ..... 36.52
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......85 ....... 1.76

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....3 ......... 5.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........5 ....... 73.5
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...23 ......... 5.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............61 ....... 22.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........7 ......... 5.9
Internet access in schools* ..................................7 ......... 6.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................5 ......... 5.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................1 ....... 1.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................44 ......... 4.1
Quality of math & science education* ...................8 ......... 5.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..46 ....... 97.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 209

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Kuwait
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 62 ..3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 62 .....3.9

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................69 ....3.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 71 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 71 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................58 ....4.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 45 .....4.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 71 .....5.2
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 71 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................55 ....3.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 40 .....4.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 83 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 105 .....3.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................101 ....3.0

Kuwait

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 125 .....2.6
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 85 .....3.5

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................83 ......... 3.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................128 ......... 2.9
Judicial independence* ......................................36 ......... 4.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....57 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....67 ......... 3.7
Intellectual property protection* ..........................46 ......... 4.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........52 .......... 59
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............141 .......... 50
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................80 ........ 566

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................66 ......... 5.0
Venture capital availability* .................................41 ......... 3.0
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................2 ....... 10.7
No. days to start a business ............................108 .......... 32
No. procedures to start a business ..................126 .......... 12
Intensity of local competition*.............................81 ......... 4.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........88 ....... 21.9
Quality of management schools* ......................102 ......... 3.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............123 ......... 2.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................7 ..... 175.1
Individuals using Internet, %...............................26 ....... 74.2
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............38 ....... 69.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................44 ....... 57.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......98 ......... 1.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop.........n/a ......... n/a
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................54 ......... 5.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................41 ......... 5.2
Capacity for innovation* ...................................113 ......... 2.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............83 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................72 ......... 4.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................54 ......... 4.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................92 ......... 3.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................119 ......... 3.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....47 ....... 0.58
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................129 ......... 3.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................3 20,109.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............102 ......... 6.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................41 ..... 179.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................54 ......... 5.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................24 ....... 0.14
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..28 ..... 21.33
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....138 ....... 0.23

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 128 ......... 3.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......73 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .129 ......... 3.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............77 ....... 18.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......84 ......... 4.0
Internet access in schools* ................................69 ......... 4.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................115 ......... 3.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................70 ....... 0.18

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................104 ......... 3.1
Quality of math & science education* ...............104 ......... 3.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..32 ..... 101.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................67 ....... 93.9

210 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Kyrgyz Republic
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............118 ..3.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 115 .....3.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................137 ....3.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 136 .....2.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 132 .....3.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................103 ....3.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 90 .....3.3
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 107 .....3.7
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 92 .....4.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................123 ....2.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 94 .....2.7
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 138 .....2.6
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 130 .....3.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................123 ....2.7

Kyrgyz Republic

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 126 .....2.6
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 115 .....2.9

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................131 ......... 2.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................135 ......... 2.5
Judicial independence* ....................................140 ......... 1.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..136 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..136 ......... 2.5
Intellectual property protection* ........................140 ......... 2.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ............................6 ........ 260

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................136 ......... 3.6
Venture capital availability* ...............................133 ......... 1.8
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................135 ....... 68.9
No. days to start a business ..............................49 .......... 10
No. procedures to start a business ......................3 ............ 2
Intensity of local competition*...........................123 ......... 4.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........62 ....... 41.3
Quality of management schools* ......................141 ......... 2.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............138 ......... 2.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................51 ..... 116.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................98 ....... 20.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............125 ......... 4.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................111 ......... 3.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....107 ......... 0.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop.........n/a ......... n/a
Use of virtual social networks* .........................104 ......... 4.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................136 ......... 3.7
Capacity for innovation* ...................................140 ......... 2.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............91 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................129 ......... 4.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................99 ......... 4.0
Extent of staff training* .....................................128 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................141 ......... 2.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....87 ....... 0.42
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................127 ......... 3.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................80 .. 2,061.9
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................81 ....... 97.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............129 ......... 1.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................109 ......... 2.5
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................58 ......... 5.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................31 ....... 0.16
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 131 ... 122.19
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 136 ......... 3.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .126 ......... 3.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............80 ....... 18.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....133 ......... 3.1
Internet access in schools* ..............................114 ......... 3.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................136 ......... 2.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................51 ....... 0.29

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................123 ......... 2.8
Quality of math & science education* ...............114 ......... 3.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..78 ....... 88.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................13 ....... 99.2

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 211

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Latvia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 41 ..4.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 41 .....4.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................43 ....4.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 52 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 42 .....4.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................27 ....5.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 41 .....4.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 16 .....6.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 54 .....5.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................43 ....4.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 38 .....4.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 51 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 75 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................45 ....3.9

Latvia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 38 .....3.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 51 .....4.1

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................87 ......... 3.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................54 ......... 4.2
Judicial independence* ......................................61 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..106 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....92 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ..........................57 ......... 3.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........44 .......... 54
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................8 .......... 27
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................56 ........ 469

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................64 ......... 5.1
Venture capital availability* .................................43 ......... 2.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................68 ....... 36.6
No. days to start a business ..............................72 .......... 16
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*.............................69 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........36 ....... 60.1
Quality of management schools* ........................67 ......... 4.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............85 ......... 3.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................80 ..... 102.9
Individuals using Internet, %...............................31 ....... 71.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............40 ....... 64.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................37 ....... 63.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......35 ....... 20.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........32 ....... 37.6
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................67 ......... 5.5

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................90 ......... 4.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................49 ......... 3.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............33 ....... 10.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................45 ......... 5.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................24 ......... 5.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................53 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................103 ......... 3.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....45 ....... 0.59
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................98 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................72 .. 2,469.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................73 ....... 98.8
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................35 ....... 44.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................38 ..... 205.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................39 ......... 5.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................54 ....... 0.22
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..20 ..... 19.28
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......83 ....... 1.77

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..78 ......... 4.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......35 ......... 1.6
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...71 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............20 ....... 40.2

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......56 ......... 4.5
Internet access in schools* ................................32 ......... 5.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................85 ......... 4.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................62 ....... 0.21

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................74 ......... 3.6
Quality of math & science education* .................48 ......... 4.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..53 ....... 95.2
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................2 ....... 99.8

212 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Lebanon
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 94 ..3.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 95 .....3.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................86 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 133 .....2.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 35 .....4.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................86 ....4.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 88 .....3.3
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 95 .....4.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 28 .....5.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................98 ....3.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 63 .....3.7
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 116 .....3.0
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 134 .....2.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................116 ....2.9

Lebanon

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 102 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 120 .....2.9

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................134 ......... 2.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................142 ......... 2.1
Judicial independence* ....................................131 ......... 2.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..114 ......... 3.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..126 ......... 2.7
Intellectual property protection* ........................124 ......... 2.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........71 .......... 71
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ........................108 ........ 721

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................76 ......... 4.9
Venture capital availability* .................................63 ......... 2.7
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................37 ....... 30.2
No. days to start a business ..............................43 ............ 9
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................35 ......... 5.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........41 ....... 57.7
Quality of management schools* ........................13 ......... 5.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............141 ......... 2.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............112 ....... 78.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................52 ....... 52.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............33 ....... 71.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................39 ....... 61.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......74 ......... 5.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........123 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................62 ......... 5.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................70 ......... 4.8
Capacity for innovation* ...................................114 ......... 2.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............64 ......... 1.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................128 ......... 4.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................132 ......... 3.1
Extent of staff training* .....................................102 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................144 ......... 2.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....74 ....... 0.48
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................139 ......... 2.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................62 .. 3,281.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................81 ....... 97.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............123 ......... 2.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................62 ....... 41.1
Accessibility of digital content* .........................110 ......... 4.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................123 ....... 0.54
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..42 ..... 26.37
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....134 ....... 0.55

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 134 ......... 3.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......53 ......... 0.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .135 ......... 2.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............40 ....... 31.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....141 ......... 2.7
Internet access in schools* ................................97 ......... 3.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................143 ......... 2.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................46 ....... 0.32

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................10 ......... 5.3
Quality of math & science education* ...................4 ......... 5.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..87 ....... 83.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................88 ....... 89.6

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 213

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Lesotho
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............138 ..2.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 133 .....2.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................121 ....3.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 116 .....3.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 118 .....3.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................136 ....2.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 130 .....2.2
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 134 .....2.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 119 .....3.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................135 ....2.5
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 129 .....1.7
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 133 .....2.8
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 128 .....3.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................140 ....2.2

Lesotho

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 144 .....2.0
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 135 .....2.4

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................108 ......... 3.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................138 ......... 2.4
Judicial independence* ....................................100 ......... 3.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....99 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..111 ......... 3.0
Intellectual property protection* ........................104 ......... 3.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............110 .......... 41
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................94 ........ 615

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................126 ......... 3.9
Venture capital availability* ...............................131 ......... 1.9
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................9 ....... 16.0
No. days to start a business ..............................95 .......... 24
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*...........................118 ......... 4.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......133 ......... 3.5
Quality of management schools* ......................134 ......... 2.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............133 ......... 2.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............125 ....... 56.2
Individuals using Internet, %.............................130 ......... 4.2
Households w/ personal computer, % .............118 ......... 5.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................126 ......... 1.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....128 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........103 ......... 1.7
Use of virtual social networks* .........................131 ......... 4.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................127 ......... 4.0
Capacity for innovation* ...................................119 ......... 2.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................134 ......... 3.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................133 ......... 3.1
Extent of staff training* .....................................117 ......... 3.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................127 ......... 3.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...113 ....... 0.30
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................119 ......... 3.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................131 ....... 93.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................121 ....... 75.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............119 ......... 2.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................139 ......... 0.5
Accessibility of digital content* .........................135 ......... 3.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................125 ....... 0.57
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 123 ..... 82.21
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 142 ......... 2.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .134 ......... 2.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........104 ......... 6.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....138 ......... 3.1
Internet access in schools* ..............................129 ......... 2.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................134 ......... 3.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................102 ......... 3.2
Quality of math & science education* ...............119 ......... 3.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 120 ....... 46.4
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................87 ....... 89.6

214 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Liberia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 97 ..3.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ..................... n/a .....n/a

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................51 ....4.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 53 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 58 .....4.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................99 ....3.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 142 .....1.6
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 3 .....6.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 122 .....3.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................114 ....2.9
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 126 .....1.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 69 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 109 .....3.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................109 ....2.9

Liberia

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 110 .....2.8
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 109 .....3.1

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................35 ......... 4.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................72 ......... 4.0
Judicial independence* ......................................52 ......... 4.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....42 ......... 4.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....38 ......... 4.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................37 ......... 4.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ........................133 ..... 1,280

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................124 ......... 4.0
Venture capital availability* .................................25 ......... 3.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................26 ....... 27.4
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*.............................87 ......... 4.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........93 ....... 19.1
Quality of management schools* ........................69 ......... 4.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............27 ......... 4.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............130 ....... 49.2
Individuals using Internet, %.............................134 ......... 3.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............141 ......... 1.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ...................n/a ......... n/a
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....141 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........125 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................109 ......... 4.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................89 ......... 4.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................36 ......... 3.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................122 ......... 4.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................103 ......... 3.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................64 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................42 ......... 4.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...128 ....... 0.19
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................78 ......... 4.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................132 ....... 87.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................138 ......... 0.8
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............136 ......... 0.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................121 ......... 1.2
Accessibility of digital content* .........................122 ......... 3.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................1 ....... 0.00
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month .n/a ......... n/a
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......87 ....... 1.75

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 126 ......... 3.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...99 ......... 3.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......90 ......... 3.9
Internet access in schools* ..............................108 ......... 3.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................84 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................56 ......... 4.0
Quality of math & science education* .................87 ......... 3.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 123 ....... 44.8
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................123 ....... 60.8

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 215

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Libya
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............132 ..2.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ..................... n/a .....n/a

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................130 ....3.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 130 .....2.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 120 .....3.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................126 ....2.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 80 .....3.6
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 141 .....1.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 97 .....4.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................129 ....2.6
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 89 .....2.8
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 136 .....2.7
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 143 .....2.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................138 ....2.3

Libya

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 137 .....2.3
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 138 .....2.3

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................85 ......... 3.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................136 ......... 2.5
Judicial independence* ......................................84 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..103 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....88 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ........................111 ......... 2.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ........103 .......... 90
No. procedures to enforce a contract ...............n/a ......... n/a
No. days to enforce a contract .........................n/a ......... n/a

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................125 ......... 3.9
Venture capital availability* .................................93 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits .....................................n/a ......... n/a
No. days to start a business .............................n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to start a business ...................n/a ......... n/a
Intensity of local competition*...........................115 ......... 4.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........49 ....... 54.4
Quality of management schools* ......................144 ......... 2.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............118 ......... 3.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................12 ..... 155.7
Individuals using Internet, %.............................104 ....... 17.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............109 ......... 7.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................96 ......... 9.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....101 ......... 1.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop.........n/a ......... n/a
Use of virtual social networks* .........................117 ......... 4.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................108 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* ...................................123 ......... 2.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............79 ......... 0.4
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................136 ......... 3.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................131 ......... 3.1
Extent of staff training* .....................................140 ......... 2.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................132 ......... 2.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...140 ....... 0.00
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................116 ......... 3.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................49 .. 4,858.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................74 ....... 98.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................81 ....... 11.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................119 ......... 1.4
Accessibility of digital content* .........................131 ......... 3.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. ......................n/a ......... n/a
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 113 ..... 67.49
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....140 ....... 0.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 141 ......... 2.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......75 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .130 ......... 3.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....130 ......... 3.2
Internet access in schools* ..............................134 ......... 2.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................135 ......... 2.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................142 ......... 2.0
Quality of math & science education* ...............135 ......... 2.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..12 ..... 110.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................91 ....... 89.2

216 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Lithuania
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 32 ..4.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 31 .....4.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................45 ....4.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 51 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 44 .....4.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................20 ....5.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 33 .....5.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 14 .....6.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 29 .....5.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................36 ....4.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 37 .....4.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 42 .....3.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 36 .....4.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................30 ....4.5

Lithuania

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 30 .....4.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 28 .....5.0

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................98 ......... 3.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................40 ......... 4.6
Judicial independence* ......................................82 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....90 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....45 ......... 4.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................66 ......... 3.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........44 .......... 54
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................18 .......... 30
No. days to enforce a contract ............................9 ........ 275

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................37 ......... 5.7
Venture capital availability* .................................86 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................94 ....... 43.7
No. days to start a business ..............................87 .......... 20
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................48 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........17 ....... 74.0
Quality of management schools* ........................57 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............96 ......... 3.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................14 ..... 151.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................39 ....... 65.1
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............44 ....... 61.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................38 ....... 61.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......30 ....... 22.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........61 ....... 17.2
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................28 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................53 ......... 5.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................47 ......... 3.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............45 ......... 4.6
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................20 ......... 5.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................10 ......... 5.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................66 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................73 ......... 4.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....29 ....... 0.70
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................54 ......... 4.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................51 .. 4,384.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................29 ....... 57.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................34 ..... 242.0
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................24 ......... 6.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................60 ....... 0.25
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..10 ..... 16.56
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......61 ....... 1.92

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..29 ......... 5.1
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......55 ......... 0.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...26 ......... 4.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............21 ....... 39.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......36 ......... 5.0
Internet access in schools* ................................23 ......... 5.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................33 ......... 4.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................30 ....... 0.53

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................54 ......... 4.0
Quality of math & science education* .................16 ......... 5.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..42 ....... 98.7
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................6 ....... 99.7

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 217

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Luxembourg
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 16 ..5.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 21 .....5.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................13 ....5.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 4 .....5.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 34 .....4.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................18 ....5.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 12 .....6.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 48 .....5.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 33 .....5.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................10 ....5.6
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 4 .....6.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 16 .....5.0
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 13 .....5.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................21 ....4.8

Luxembourg

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 25 .....4.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 20 .....5.2

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................4 ......... 5.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................1 ......... 6.0
Judicial independence* ......................................16 ......... 5.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....12 ......... 5.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......8 ......... 5.3
Intellectual property protection* ............................7 ......... 5.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............2 .......... 20
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................5 .......... 26
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................15 ........ 321

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................10 ......... 6.4
Venture capital availability* .................................12 ......... 3.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................12 ....... 21.0
No. days to start a business ..............................81 .......... 19
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................58 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......112 ....... 10.5
Quality of management schools* ........................60 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................8 ......... 4.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................17 ..... 148.3
Individuals using Internet, %.................................5 ....... 90.9
Households w/ personal computer, % .................3 ....... 91.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................6 ....... 90.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......10 ....... 32.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........12 ....... 66.7
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................23 ......... 6.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................24 ......... 5.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................16 ......... 4.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............16 ..... 100.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................16 ......... 5.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................36 ......... 5.1
Extent of staff training* .........................................4 ......... 5.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................5 ......... 5.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....29 ....... 0.70
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................9 ......... 5.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................34 .. 6,377.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................17 ....... 89.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................7 .. 1,874.3
Accessibility of digital content* .............................6 ......... 6.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................59 ....... 0.25
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..64 ..... 31.55
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....9 ......... 5.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......20 ....... 18.8
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...17 ......... 5.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........3 ......... 6.0
Internet access in schools* ................................14 ......... 6.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................16 ......... 5.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................38 ....... 0.39

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................36 ......... 4.4
Quality of math & science education* .................46 ......... 4.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..31 ..... 101.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

218 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Macedonia, FYR
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 67 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 66 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................59 ....4.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 80 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 49 .....4.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................84 ....4.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 69 .....4.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 94 .....4.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 77 .....4.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................61 ....3.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 52 .....4.1
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 123 .....2.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 54 .....4.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................78 ....3.4

Macedonia, FYR

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 92 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 70 .....3.8

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................68 ......... 3.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................62 ......... 4.1
Judicial independence* ....................................105 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..108 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..107 ......... 3.1
Intellectual property protection* ..........................73 ......... 3.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........62 .......... 66
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................20 ........ 370

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................96 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* .................................91 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................1 ......... 9.4
No. days to start a business ................................2 ............ 2
No. procedures to start a business ......................3 ............ 2
Intensity of local competition*...........................119 ......... 4.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........67 ....... 38.6
Quality of management schools* ......................106 ......... 3.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............102 ......... 3.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................69 ..... 107.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................46 ....... 56.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............52 ....... 53.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................52 ....... 46.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......47 ....... 12.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........57 ....... 18.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................42 ......... 5.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................133 ......... 3.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................99 ......... 2.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............70 ......... 0.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................71 ......... 4.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................105 ......... 3.9
Extent of staff training* .....................................126 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................61 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....82 ....... 0.45
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................33 ......... 5.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................61 .. 3,319.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................68 ....... 17.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................66 ....... 28.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................60 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................106 ....... 0.42
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..67 ..... 32.08
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....123 ....... 1.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 110 ......... 3.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......62 ......... 0.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .115 ......... 3.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............52 ....... 25.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......71 ......... 4.2
Internet access in schools* ................................46 ......... 4.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................63 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................88 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* .................67 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..85 ....... 83.7
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................54 ....... 97.3

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 219

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Madagascar
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............137 ..2.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 134 .....2.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................125 ....3.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 134 .....2.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 104 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................137 ....2.6
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 143 .....1.6
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 121 .....2.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 127 .....3.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................133 ....2.6
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 132 .....1.6
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 118 .....3.0
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 131 .....3.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................135 ....2.4

Madagascar

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 139 .....2.3
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 130 .....2.5

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................129 ......... 2.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................132 ......... 2.7
Judicial independence* ....................................135 ......... 2.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..125 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..123 ......... 2.8
Intellectual property protection* ........................135 ......... 2.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ........................123 ........ 871

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................128 ......... 3.9
Venture capital availability* .................................71 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................66 ....... 36.0
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ......................3 ............ 2
Intensity of local competition*...........................100 ......... 4.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......130 ......... 4.1
Quality of management schools* ........................90 ......... 3.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............111 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............137 ....... 40.7
Individuals using Internet, %.............................138 ......... 1.9
Households w/ personal computer, % .............138 ......... 1.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................134 ......... 0.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....133 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........122 ......... 0.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................91 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................132 ......... 3.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................97 ......... 2.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............112 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................110 ......... 4.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................113 ......... 3.7
Extent of staff training* .....................................113 ......... 3.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................134 ......... 2.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...107 ....... 0.32
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................118 ......... 3.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................136 ....... 67.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................135 ....... 23.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............137 ......... 0.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................136 ......... 0.5
Accessibility of digital content* .........................123 ......... 3.7

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................103 ....... 0.40
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 121 ..... 81.28
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 125 ......... 3.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .121 ......... 3.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........109 ......... 2.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....120 ......... 3.4
Internet access in schools* ..............................133 ......... 2.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................128 ......... 3.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................117 ......... 3.0
Quality of math & science education* .................82 ......... 3.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 134 ....... 31.1
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................119 ....... 64.5

220 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Malawi
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............129 ..2.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 116 .....3.1

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................103 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 63 .....3.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 131 .....3.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................139 ....2.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 120 .....2.6
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 140 .....1.2
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 121 .....3.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................131 ....2.6
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 136 .....1.6
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 121 .....3.0
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 122 .....3.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................124 ....2.7

Malawi

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 112 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 127 .....2.7

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................76 ......... 3.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................108 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ......................................54 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....52 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....51 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................72 ......... 3.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............116 .......... 42
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................48 ........ 432

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................120 ......... 4.1
Venture capital availability* ...............................125 ......... 2.0
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................57 ....... 34.7
No. days to start a business ............................120 .......... 39
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*...........................126 ......... 3.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......139 ......... 0.8
Quality of management schools* ......................100 ......... 3.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............91 ......... 3.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............142 ....... 25.7
Individuals using Internet, %.............................132 ......... 3.3
Households w/ personal computer, % .............119 ......... 4.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................114 ......... 2.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....127 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........95 ......... 3.1
Use of virtual social networks* .........................120 ......... 4.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................134 ......... 3.8
Capacity for innovation* ...................................100 ......... 2.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............119 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................106 ......... 4.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................124 ......... 3.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................94 ......... 3.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................100 ......... 3.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...125 ....... 0.22
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................93 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................126 ..... 120.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................108 ....... 85.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............115 ......... 3.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................141 ......... 0.4
Accessibility of digital content* .........................113 ......... 4.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................138 ....... 0.90
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 138 1,463.32
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....118 ....... 1.13

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 116 ......... 3.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .114 ......... 3.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......94 ......... 3.9
Internet access in schools* ..............................124 ......... 2.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................120 ......... 3.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................65 ......... 3.8
Quality of math & science education* .................96 ......... 3.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 133 ....... 34.2
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................108 ....... 74.8

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 221

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Malaysia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 30 ..4.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 29 .....4.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................18 ....5.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 24 .....4.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 16 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................57 ....4.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 73 .....3.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 50 .....5.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 43 .....5.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................29 ....4.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 46 .....4.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 26 .....4.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 7 .....5.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................27 ....4.5

Malaysia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 29 .....4.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 25 .....5.0

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................12 ......... 5.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................23 ......... 5.2
Judicial independence* ......................................43 ......... 4.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....14 ......... 5.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....10 ......... 5.1
Intellectual property protection* ..........................31 ......... 4.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........47 .......... 55
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................15 .......... 29
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................43 ........ 425

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................35 ......... 5.8
Venture capital availability* .................................11 ......... 4.0
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................20 ....... 24.5
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*.............................36 ......... 5.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........63 ....... 40.2
Quality of management schools* ........................26 ......... 5.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................4 ......... 4.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................35 ..... 127.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................41 ....... 61.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............41 ....... 64.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................42 ....... 61.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......67 ......... 7.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........69 ....... 12.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................30 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................29 ......... 5.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................17 ......... 4.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............31 ....... 12.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................33 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................26 ......... 5.4
Extent of staff training* .........................................7 ......... 5.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................6 ......... 5.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....20 ....... 0.79
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................10 ......... 5.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................58 .. 3,759.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................86 ....... 96.2
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................82 ....... 10.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................57 ....... 54.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................40 ......... 5.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................43 ....... 0.19
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..76 ..... 34.82
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..13 ......... 5.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......27 ......... 6.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....9 ......... 5.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............51 ....... 26.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......26 ......... 5.4
Internet access in schools* ................................38 ......... 5.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................8 ......... 5.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................31 ....... 0.50

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................14 ......... 5.1
Quality of math & science education* .................20 ......... 5.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 103 ....... 68.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................72 ....... 93.1

222 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Mali
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............122 ..3.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 126 .....2.9

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................111 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 99 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 114 .....3.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................141 ....2.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 139 .....1.7
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 128 .....2.7
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 136 .....2.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................115 ....2.9
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 125 .....1.8
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 114 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 77 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................93 ....3.2

Mali

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 71 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 108 .....3.1

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................80 ......... 3.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................125 ......... 2.9
Judicial independence* ....................................111 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....85 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....82 ......... 3.5
Intellectual property protection* ........................109 ......... 2.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................95 ........ 620

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................99 ......... 4.5
Venture capital availability* .................................92 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................116 ....... 51.7
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*...........................110 ......... 4.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......124 ......... 6.1
Quality of management schools* ......................122 ......... 3.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............54 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............119 ....... 68.3
Individuals using Internet, %.............................137 ......... 2.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............128 ......... 3.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................128 ......... 1.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....135 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........115 ......... 0.3
Use of virtual social networks* .........................129 ......... 4.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................87 ......... 4.5
Capacity for innovation* ...................................111 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................75 ......... 4.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................106 ......... 3.8
Extent of staff training* .....................................131 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................63 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...107 ....... 0.32
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................40 ......... 4.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................139 ....... 34.9
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................136 ....... 20.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............106 ......... 4.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................127 ......... 0.9
Accessibility of digital content* .........................130 ......... 3.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................96 ....... 0.38
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 122 ..... 82.18
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....117 ....... 1.19

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..74 ......... 4.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...58 ......... 4.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......81 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ..............................106 ......... 3.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................75 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................118 ......... 2.9
Quality of math & science education* ...............121 ......... 2.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 129 ....... 39.5
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................140 ....... 31.1

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 223

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Malta
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 28 ..4.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 26 .....4.9

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................39 ....4.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 31 .....4.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 50 .....4.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................21 ....5.6
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 15 .....6.3
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 72 .....5.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 26 .....5.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................27 ....4.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 22 .....5.6
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 38 .....3.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 16 .....5.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................29 ....4.5

Malta

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 31 .....4.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 26 .....5.0

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................29 ......... 4.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................16 ......... 5.3
Judicial independence* ......................................35 ......... 5.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....58 ......... 3.9
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....68 ......... 3.7
Intellectual property protection* ..........................35 ......... 4.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........30 .......... 43
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................62 ........ 505

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................21 ......... 6.2
Venture capital availability* .................................36 ......... 3.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................85 ....... 41.6
No. days to start a business ............................123 .......... 40
No. procedures to start a business ..................123 .......... 11
Intensity of local competition*.............................10 ......... 5.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........71 ....... 35.3
Quality of management schools* ........................28 ......... 5.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............44 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................39 ..... 124.9
Individuals using Internet, %...............................36 ....... 69.2
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............27 ....... 76.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................25 ....... 75.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......15 ....... 30.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........39 ....... 32.6
Use of virtual social networks* .............................4 ......... 6.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................32 ......... 5.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................70 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............36 ......... 8.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................5 ......... 6.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................46 ......... 4.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................50 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................4 ......... 5.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....41 ....... 0.61
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................5 ......... 5.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................42 .. 5,234.4
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................33 ....... 47.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................9 .. 1,661.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................19 ......... 6.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................122 ....... 0.54
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..38 ..... 24.81
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..15 ......... 5.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......46 ......... 0.8
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...29 ......... 4.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............33 ....... 35.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......14 ......... 5.8
Internet access in schools* ................................18 ......... 5.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................4 ......... 5.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................54 ....... 0.26

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................16 ......... 5.0
Quality of math & science education* .................15 ......... 5.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..33 ..... 100.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................76 ....... 92.4

224 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Mauritania
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............135 ..2.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 139 .....2.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................136 ....3.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 113 .....3.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 140 .....3.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................133 ....2.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 134 .....2.0
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 101 .....3.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 139 .....2.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................132 ....2.6
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 116 .....2.1
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 126 .....2.9
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 137 .....2.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................134 ....2.4

Mauritania

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 130 .....2.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 136 .....2.4

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................104 ......... 3.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................130 ......... 2.8
Judicial independence* ....................................108 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....92 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....72 ......... 3.6
Intellectual property protection* ........................107 ......... 2.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............131 .......... 46
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................20 ........ 370

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................116 ......... 4.2
Venture capital availability* ...............................119 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................133 ....... 68.2
No. days to start a business ..............................81 .......... 19
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*...........................125 ......... 3.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......128 ......... 4.4
Quality of management schools* ......................138 ......... 2.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............82 ......... 3.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................94 ....... 93.6
Individuals using Internet, %.............................128 ......... 4.5
Households w/ personal computer, % .............129 ......... 3.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................130 ......... 1.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....119 ......... 0.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........85 ......... 4.9
Use of virtual social networks* .........................127 ......... 4.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................107 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* ...................................108 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................114 ......... 4.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................119 ......... 3.6
Extent of staff training* .....................................141 ......... 2.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................120 ......... 3.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...139 ....... 0.08
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................109 ......... 3.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................124 ..... 140.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................129 ....... 62.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............113 ......... 3.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................113 ......... 2.0
Accessibility of digital content* .........................124 ......... 3.7

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................86 ....... 0.35
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 106 ..... 51.64
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 131 ......... 3.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .136 ......... 2.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....139 ......... 3.0
Internet access in schools* ..............................135 ......... 2.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................124 ......... 3.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................138 ......... 2.3
Quality of math & science education* ...............126 ......... 2.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 142 ....... 24.4
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................126 ....... 58.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 225

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Mauritius
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 55 ..4.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 53 .....4.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................41 ....4.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 36 .....4.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 46 .....4.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................54 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 77 .....3.7
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 12 .....6.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 67 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................65 ....3.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 70 .....3.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 73 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 49 .....4.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................80 ....3.3

Mauritius

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 82 .....3.1
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 78 .....3.6

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................19 ......... 4.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................43 ......... 4.5
Judicial independence* ......................................34 ......... 5.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....26 ......... 4.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....30 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................54 ......... 3.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........48 .......... 57
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ........................102 ........ 645

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................48 ......... 5.3
Venture capital availability* .................................56 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................32 ....... 28.5
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................42 ......... 5.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........74 ....... 32.4
Quality of management schools* ........................76 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............74 ......... 3.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................85 ....... 99.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................81 ....... 35.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............68 ....... 38.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................60 ....... 36.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......60 ......... 8.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........68 ....... 12.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................76 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................55 ......... 4.9
Capacity for innovation* ...................................112 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............103 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................48 ......... 5.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................92 ......... 4.1
Extent of staff training* .......................................37 ......... 4.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................48 ......... 4.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....85 ....... 0.43
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................22 ......... 5.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................77 .. 2,265.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................76 ....... 12.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................49 ..... 116.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................83 ......... 4.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................47 ....... 0.19
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..33 ..... 22.95
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..56 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......77 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...62 ......... 4.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............88 ....... 15.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......63 ......... 4.3
Internet access in schools* ................................72 ......... 4.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................56 ......... 4.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................46 ......... 4.1
Quality of math & science education* .................49 ......... 4.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..64 ....... 90.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................94 ....... 88.5

226 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Mexico
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 63 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 76 .....3.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................75 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 79 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 74 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................76 ....4.5
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 82 .....3.5
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 63 .....5.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 87 .....4.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................66 ....3.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 82 .....3.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 62 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 39 .....4.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................52 ....3.7

Mexico

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 72 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 47 .....4.2

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................128 ......... 2.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................55 ......... 4.2
Judicial independence* ......................................88 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..100 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....85 ......... 3.4
Intellectual property protection* ..........................77 ......... 3.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........48 .......... 57
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................40 ........ 415

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................52 ......... 5.3
Venture capital availability* .................................67 ......... 2.6
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................117 ....... 52.5
No. days to start a business ..............................43 ............ 9
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................75 ......... 4.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........80 ....... 28.0
Quality of management schools* ........................51 ......... 4.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............67 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............107 ....... 82.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................78 ....... 36.2
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............75 ....... 30.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................73 ....... 23.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......57 ....... 10.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........82 ......... 6.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................79 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................63 ......... 4.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................75 ......... 3.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............59 ......... 1.6
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................57 ......... 5.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................69 ......... 4.6
Extent of staff training* .......................................67 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................76 ......... 3.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....28 ....... 0.73
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................75 ......... 4.3

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................76 .. 2,366.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................89 ......... 8.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................69 ....... 26.8
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................84 ......... 4.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................102 ....... 0.40
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..49 ..... 28.05
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..54 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......65 ......... 0.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...45 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............79 ....... 18.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......70 ......... 4.2
Internet access in schools* ................................82 ......... 3.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................57 ......... 4.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................25 ....... 0.58

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................100 ......... 3.2
Quality of math & science education* ...............124 ......... 2.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..73 ....... 88.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................73 ....... 93.1

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 227

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Moldova
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 77 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 78 .....3.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................109 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 117 .....3.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 88 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................46 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 55 .....4.3
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 25 .....6.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 78 .....4.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................82 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 72 .....3.4
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 129 .....2.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 76 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................74 ....3.4

Moldova

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 84 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 65 .....3.8

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................103 ......... 3.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................98 ......... 3.5
Judicial independence* ....................................138 ......... 2.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..120 ......... 2.9
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..112 ......... 3.0
Intellectual property protection* ........................117 ......... 2.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ........103 .......... 90
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................26 .......... 31
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................16 ........ 327

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................118 ......... 4.1
Venture capital availability* ...............................117 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................40 ....... 31.2
No. days to start a business ..............................43 ............ 9
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*...........................108 ......... 4.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........65 ....... 39.4
Quality of management schools* ......................121 ......... 3.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............136 ......... 2.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................75 ..... 104.8
Individuals using Internet, %...............................75 ....... 38.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............69 ....... 36.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................65 ....... 34.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......58 ....... 10.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........93 ......... 3.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................83 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................128 ......... 4.0
Capacity for innovation* ...................................122 ......... 2.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............78 ......... 0.4
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................92 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................95 ......... 4.0
Extent of staff training* .....................................122 ......... 3.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................96 ......... 3.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....61 ....... 0.52
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................79 ......... 4.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................96 .. 1,009.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................79 ....... 98.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................15 ....... 91.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................78 ....... 19.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................66 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................76 ....... 0.31
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..29 ..... 22.03
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 114 ......... 3.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .102 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............49 ....... 28.2

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....105 ......... 3.7
Internet access in schools* ................................61 ......... 4.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................100 ......... 3.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................38 ....... 0.39

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................103 ......... 3.2
Quality of math & science education* .................64 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..80 ....... 87.7
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................42 ....... 98.5

228 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Mongolia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 59 ..4.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 63 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................76 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 93 .....3.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 62 .....4.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................42 ....5.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 60 .....4.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 10 .....6.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 72 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................80 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 90 .....2.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 78 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 66 .....4.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................58 ....3.7

Mongolia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 86 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 43 .....4.3

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................89 ......... 3.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................105 ......... 3.4
Judicial independence* ....................................112 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....94 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..113 ......... 3.0
Intellectual property protection* ........................132 ......... 2.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................28 .......... 32
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................13 ........ 314

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................108 ......... 4.3
Venture capital availability* ...............................139 ......... 1.7
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................21 ....... 24.6
No. days to start a business ..............................56 .......... 12
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................86 ......... 4.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........42 ....... 57.2
Quality of management schools* ......................132 ......... 3.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............100 ......... 3.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................73 ..... 105.1
Individuals using Internet, %...............................98 ....... 20.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............85 ....... 22.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................99 ......... 7.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......86 ......... 3.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........60 ....... 17.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................85 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................81 ......... 4.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................73 ......... 3.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............105 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................83 ......... 4.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................79 ......... 4.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................60 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................93 ......... 3.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....45 ....... 0.59
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................94 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................88 .. 1,541.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................106 ....... 87.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................30 ....... 53.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................88 ....... 13.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................50 ......... 5.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................21 ....... 0.11
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....5 ..... 14.78
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......94 ....... 1.56

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..72 ......... 4.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...98 ......... 3.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............70 ....... 20.2

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......57 ......... 4.4
Internet access in schools* ................................80 ......... 3.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................68 ......... 4.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................24 ....... 0.61

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................136 ......... 2.4
Quality of math & science education* .................63 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..59 ....... 92.6
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................53 ....... 97.4

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 229

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Montenegro
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 48 ..4.2

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 46 .....4.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................52 ....4.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 72 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 41 .....4.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................62 ....4.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 42 .....4.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 93 .....4.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 40 .....5.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................53 ....3.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 56 .....4.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 71 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 47 .....4.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................44 ....3.9

Montenegro

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 39 .....3.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 49 .....4.1

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................42 ......... 4.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................45 ......... 4.4
Judicial independence* ......................................65 ......... 3.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....51 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....54 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................70 ......... 3.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........82 .......... 79
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............137 .......... 49
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................76 ........ 545

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................97 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* .................................29 ......... 3.3
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................14 ....... 22.3
No. days to start a business ..............................49 .......... 10
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................114 ......... 4.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........55 ....... 47.6
Quality of management schools* ........................59 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............40 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................4 ..... 185.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................72 ....... 40.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............62 ....... 46.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................47 ....... 51.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......64 ......... 8.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........63 ....... 15.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................40 ......... 5.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................100 ......... 4.4
Capacity for innovation* .....................................53 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................81 ......... 4.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................78 ......... 4.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................51 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................31 ......... 4.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....64 ....... 0.51
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................59 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................54 .. 4,157.4
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................18 ....... 84.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................70 ....... 25.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................52 ......... 5.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................118 ....... 0.51
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..84 ..... 36.80
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..59 ......... 4.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...52 ......... 4.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............32 ....... 35.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......61 ......... 4.3
Internet access in schools* ................................60 ......... 4.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................40 ......... 4.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................46 ....... 0.32

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................38 ......... 4.2
Quality of math & science education* .................44 ......... 4.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..49 ....... 96.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................43 ....... 98.4

230 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Morocco
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 89 ..3.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 91 .....3.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................74 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 73 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 79 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................88 ....4.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 95 .....3.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 30 .....6.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 114 .....3.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................71 ....3.6
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 67 .....3.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 99 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 81 .....3.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................111 ....2.9

Morocco

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 122 .....2.6
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 105 .....3.1

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................64 ......... 3.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................85 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................81 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....54 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....60 ......... 3.8
Intellectual property protection* ..........................82 ......... 3.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........62 .......... 66
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................65 ........ 510

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................53 ......... 5.3
Venture capital availability* .................................38 ......... 3.0
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................111 ....... 49.6
No. days to start a business ..............................56 .......... 12
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................57 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......103 ....... 13.2
Quality of management schools* ........................47 ......... 4.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............72 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................56 ..... 113.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................54 ....... 51.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............67 ....... 39.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................62 ....... 35.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......94 ......... 1.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........80 ......... 8.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................45 ......... 5.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................75 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* ...................................115 ......... 2.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............76 ......... 0.5
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................82 ......... 4.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................91 ......... 4.2
Extent of staff training* .......................................75 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................38 ......... 4.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...122 ....... 0.25
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................42 ......... 4.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................104 ..... 676.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................93 ......... 7.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................102 ......... 4.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................96 ......... 4.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................90 ....... 0.36
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..23 ..... 19.98
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..87 ......... 4.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......72 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...89 ......... 3.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........102 ......... 6.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......92 ......... 3.9
Internet access in schools* ................................95 ......... 3.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................77 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................105 ......... 3.1
Quality of math & science education* .................53 ......... 4.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 113 ....... 56.1
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................130 ....... 56.1

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 231

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Mozambique
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............133 ..2.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 120 .....3.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................120 ....3.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 105 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 124 .....3.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................143 ....2.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 135 .....1.8
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 132 .....2.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 140 .....2.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................128 ....2.7
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 141 .....1.5
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 125 .....2.9
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 106 .....3.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................117 ....2.8

Mozambique

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 116 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 117 .....2.9

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................78 ......... 3.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................124 ......... 3.0
Judicial independence* ....................................130 ......... 2.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....93 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..109 ......... 3.0
Intellectual property protection* ........................128 ......... 2.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................18 .......... 30
No. days to enforce a contract ........................110 ........ 730

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................111 ......... 4.3
Venture capital availability* ...............................128 ......... 1.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................53 ....... 34.3
No. days to start a business ..............................62 .......... 13
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*...........................133 ......... 3.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......126 ......... 4.9
Quality of management schools* ......................133 ......... 2.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............84 ......... 3.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............140 ....... 32.8
Individuals using Internet, %.............................129 ......... 4.3
Households w/ personal computer, % .............123 ......... 4.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................133 ......... 0.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....126 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........109 ......... 1.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................137 ......... 4.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................110 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* ...................................132 ......... 2.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................108 ......... 4.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................109 ......... 3.8
Extent of staff training* .....................................119 ......... 3.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................92 ......... 3.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....97 ....... 0.37
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................90 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................103 ..... 742.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop .....................n/a ......... n/a
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............133 ......... 1.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................123 ......... 1.1
Accessibility of digital content* .........................125 ......... 3.7

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................113 ....... 0.48
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 127 ... 107.39
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....109 ....... 1.29

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 111 ......... 3.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .125 ......... 3.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....110 ......... 3.7
Internet access in schools* ..............................121 ......... 2.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................106 ......... 3.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................119 ......... 2.9
Quality of math & science education* ...............131 ......... 2.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 140 ....... 26.4
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................129 ....... 56.1

232 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Namibia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............111 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 105 .....3.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................58 ....4.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 37 .....4.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 112 .....3.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................115 ....3.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 102 .....3.0
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 117 .....3.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 111 .....3.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................101 ....3.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 99 .....2.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 76 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 116 .....3.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................122 ....2.7

Namibia

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 117 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 121 .....2.8

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................38 ......... 4.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................94 ......... 3.6
Judicial independence* ......................................44 ......... 4.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....38 ......... 4.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....42 ......... 4.1
Intellectual property protection* ..........................43 ......... 4.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................36 .......... 33
No. days to enforce a contract ............................7 ........ 270

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................61 ......... 5.2
Venture capital availability* .................................82 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................16 ....... 22.7
No. days to start a business ............................135 .......... 66
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*.............................91 ......... 4.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......116 ......... 9.0
Quality of management schools* ......................129 ......... 3.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............90 ......... 3.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................91 ....... 96.4
Individuals using Internet, %.............................113 ....... 12.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............98 ....... 13.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................93 ....... 10.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....104 ......... 0.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........54 ....... 20.9
Use of virtual social networks* .........................105 ......... 4.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................65 ......... 4.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................90 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............102 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................58 ......... 5.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................90 ......... 4.2
Extent of staff training* .......................................55 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................97 ......... 3.6
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...113 ....... 0.30
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................99 ......... 3.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................101 ..... 777.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............121 ......... 2.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................76 ....... 19.8
Accessibility of digital content* .........................105 ......... 4.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................65 ....... 0.27
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 132 ... 152.98
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......98 ....... 1.43

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 115 ......... 3.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .118 ......... 3.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............86 ....... 16.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....103 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................110 ......... 3.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................132 ......... 3.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................126 ......... 2.7
Quality of math & science education* ...............127 ......... 2.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 107 ....... 64.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................92 ....... 88.8

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 233

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Nepal
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............126 ..2.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 128 .....2.9

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................122 ....3.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 119 .....3.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 117 .....3.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................112 ....3.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 140 .....1.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 69 .....5.2
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 131 .....3.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................134 ....2.5
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 137 .....1.5
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 127 .....2.9
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 124 .....3.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................129 ....2.5

Nepal

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 135 .....2.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 125 .....2.7

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................125 ......... 2.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................131 ......... 2.7
Judicial independence* ......................................89 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..113 ......... 3.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....86 ......... 3.4
Intellectual property protection* ........................118 ......... 2.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ........................125 ........ 910

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................112 ......... 4.3
Venture capital availability* .................................83 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................42 ....... 31.5
No. days to start a business ............................106 .......... 29
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*...........................112 ......... 4.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......122 ......... 7.3
Quality of management schools* ......................113 ......... 3.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............132 ......... 2.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............135 ....... 43.8
Individuals using Internet, %.............................120 ......... 9.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............121 ......... 4.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................132 ......... 1.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....113 ......... 0.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........121 ......... 0.1
Use of virtual social networks* .........................126 ......... 4.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................120 ......... 4.1
Capacity for innovation* ...................................126 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............120 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................112 ......... 4.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................111 ......... 3.8
Extent of staff training* .....................................132 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................121 ......... 3.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...119 ....... 0.29
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................106 ......... 3.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................129 ..... 106.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................134 ....... 35.1
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............131 ......... 1.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................114 ......... 1.9
Accessibility of digital content* .........................119 ......... 3.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................11 ....... 0.07
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 102 ..... 46.44
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 122 ......... 3.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .109 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........105 ......... 4.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....128 ......... 3.2
Internet access in schools* ..............................104 ......... 3.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................127 ......... 3.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................92 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* .................95 ......... 3.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 125 ....... 43.5
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................124 ....... 60.3

234 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Netherlands
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 4 ..5.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 6 .....5.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................4 ....5.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 6 .....5.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 5 .....5.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................13 ....5.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 11 .....6.5
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 60 .....5.4
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 8 .....5.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................5 ....5.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 5 .....6.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 8 .....5.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 15 .....5.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................2 ....6.0

Netherlands

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 4 .....5.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 3 .....6.1

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................11 ......... 5.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................10 ......... 5.5
Judicial independence* ........................................3 ......... 6.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......8 ......... 5.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......3 ......... 5.6
Intellectual property protection* ............................5 ......... 5.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........14 .......... 27
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................5 .......... 26
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................70 ........ 514

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................4 ......... 6.5
Venture capital availability* .................................15 ......... 3.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................78 ....... 40.1
No. days to start a business ..............................10 ............ 5
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*...............................1 ......... 6.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........27 ....... 65.4
Quality of management schools* ..........................9 ......... 5.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............23 ......... 4.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................54 ..... 115.4
Individuals using Internet, %.................................3 ....... 92.3
Households w/ personal computer, % .................2 ....... 94.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................2 ....... 93.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........2 ....... 38.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........19 ....... 49.2
Use of virtual social networks* .............................3 ......... 6.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................22 ......... 5.8
Capacity for innovation* .......................................8 ......... 5.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................8 ..... 180.9
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................12 ......... 6.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................4 ......... 6.0
Extent of staff training* .........................................8 ......... 5.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................47 ......... 4.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......5 ....... 0.96
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................26 ......... 5.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................31 .. 6,905.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................74 ....... 98.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................7 ..... 162.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................2 .. 2,749.8
Accessibility of digital content* .............................2 ......... 6.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................87 ....... 0.36
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..58 ..... 29.74
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....8 ......... 5.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........7 ....... 59.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....5 ......... 5.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............3 ....... 47.2

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........5 ......... 5.9
Internet access in schools* ..................................4 ......... 6.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................23 ......... 5.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................1 ....... 1.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................13 ......... 5.3
Quality of math & science education* .................12 ......... 5.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....3 ..... 121.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 235

3: Country/Economy Profiles

New Zealand
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 20 ..5.2

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 14 .....5.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................2 ....5.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 2 .....5.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 6 .....5.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................30 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 17 .....6.2
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 100 .....4.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 11 .....5.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................19 ....5.2
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 17 .....5.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 23 .....4.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 18 .....5.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................22 ....4.8

New Zealand

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 26 .....4.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 21 .....5.1

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................2 ......... 5.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................6 ......... 5.6
Judicial independence* ........................................1 ......... 6.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......3 ......... 5.9
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......4 ......... 5.5
Intellectual property protection* ............................3 ......... 6.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............4 .......... 22
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................18 .......... 30
No. days to enforce a contract ............................2 ........ 216

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................27 ......... 6.1
Venture capital availability* .................................24 ......... 3.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................49 ....... 33.5
No. days to start a business ................................1 ............ 1
No. procedures to start a business ......................1 ............ 1
Intensity of local competition*.............................24 ......... 5.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........8 ....... 82.6
Quality of management schools* ........................20 ......... 5.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............57 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................61 ..... 109.2
Individuals using Internet, %.................................9 ....... 86.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............16 ....... 83.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................16 ....... 79.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......19 ....... 25.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........16 ....... 53.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................13 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................17 ......... 5.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................24 ......... 4.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............22 ....... 71.9
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................11 ......... 6.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................18 ......... 5.6
Extent of staff training* .......................................18 ......... 4.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................16 ......... 5.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....21 ....... 0.78
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................25 ......... 5.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................12 10,261.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................81 ....... 97.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................55 ....... 23.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................10 .. 1,597.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................32 ......... 5.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................128 ....... 0.58
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..82 ..... 36.72
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......96 ....... 1.53

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..25 ......... 5.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......23 ....... 13.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...24 ......... 4.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............11 ....... 42.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......27 ......... 5.4
Internet access in schools* ................................27 ......... 5.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................24 ......... 5.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................25 ....... 0.58

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................11 ......... 5.3
Quality of math & science education* .................10 ......... 5.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....6 ..... 119.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

236 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Nicaragua
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............125 ..2.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 131 .....2.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................134 ....3.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 122 .....3.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 136 .....3.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................121 ....3.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 91 .....3.3
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 136 .....2.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 112 .....3.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................124 ....2.8
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 120 .....2.0
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 111 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 125 .....3.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................118 ....2.8

Nicaragua

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 120 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 116 .....2.9

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................121 ......... 2.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................115 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ....................................134 ......... 2.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..112 ......... 3.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..125 ......... 2.7
Intellectual property protection* ..........................98 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........82 .......... 79
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................37 ........ 409

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................133 ......... 3.8
Venture capital availability* .................................61 ......... 2.7
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................128 ....... 65.0
No. days to start a business ............................120 .......... 39
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*...........................129 ......... 3.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........95 ....... 18.0
Quality of management schools* ........................98 ......... 3.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............116 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............108 ....... 82.2
Individuals using Internet, %.............................118 ....... 10.6
Households w/ personal computer, % .............106 ......... 8.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................125 ......... 2.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......99 ......... 1.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........111 ......... 0.8
Use of virtual social networks* .........................125 ......... 4.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................122 ......... 4.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................87 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................124 ......... 4.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................102 ......... 3.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................97 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................125 ......... 3.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...110 ....... 0.31
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................112 ......... 3.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................110 ..... 604.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................75 ....... 12.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................89 ....... 10.1
Accessibility of digital content* .........................116 ......... 4.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................139 ....... 0.96
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 103 ..... 46.66
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......65 ....... 1.88

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 113 ......... 3.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .111 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............90 ....... 14.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....114 ......... 3.5
Internet access in schools* ..............................112 ......... 3.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................125 ......... 3.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................121 ......... 2.8
Quality of math & science education* ...............128 ......... 2.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 102 ....... 69.4
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................106 ....... 78.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 237

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Nigeria
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............113 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 112 .....3.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................94 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 89 .....3.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 101 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................123 ....3.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 115 .....2.7
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 120 .....3.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 123 .....3.4

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................108 ....3.0
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 111 .....2.2
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 68 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 113 .....3.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................79 ....3.3

Nigeria

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 65 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 88 .....3.4

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................66 ......... 3.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................93 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................73 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....48 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....65 ......... 3.7
Intellectual property protection* ........................110 ......... 2.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........90 .......... 82
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................52 ........ 457

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................85 ......... 4.7
Venture capital availability* .................................72 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................51 ....... 33.8
No. days to start a business ............................114 .......... 34
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*.............................92 ......... 4.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......113 ....... 10.3
Quality of management schools* ........................86 ......... 3.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............64 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............124 ....... 58.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................92 ....... 28.4
Households w/ personal computer, % .............104 ......... 9.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................105 ......... 4.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....121 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........74 ....... 10.0
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................80 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................72 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* .....................................63 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............118 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................99 ......... 4.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................70 ......... 4.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................57 ......... 4.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................58 ......... 4.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...124 ....... 0.22
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................89 ......... 4.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................125 ..... 128.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................101 ....... 90.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............139 ......... 0.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................115 ......... 1.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................93 ......... 4.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................97 ....... 0.38
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 126 ... 101.97
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..52 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......94 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...68 ......... 4.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......72 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................99 ......... 3.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................89 ......... 3.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................70 ....... 0.18

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................83 ......... 3.5
Quality of math & science education* .................92 ......... 3.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 124 ....... 44.0
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................122 ....... 61.3

238 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Norway
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 5 ..5.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 7 .....5.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................9 ....5.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 9 .....5.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 10 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................6 ....6.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 3 .....6.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 23 .....6.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 27 .....5.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................7 ....5.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 2 .....6.6
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 12 .....5.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 14 .....5.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................11 ....5.3

Norway

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 13 .....5.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 13 .....5.5

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................7 ......... 5.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................14 ......... 5.4
Judicial independence* ........................................8 ......... 6.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......7 ......... 5.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......9 ......... 5.3
Intellectual property protection* ..........................14 ......... 5.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........14 .......... 27
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................43 .......... 34
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................11 ........ 280

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................5 ......... 6.5
Venture capital availability* ...................................6 ......... 4.3
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................85 ....... 41.6
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................32 ......... 5.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........16 ....... 74.4
Quality of management schools* ........................24 ......... 5.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............28 ......... 4.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................53 ..... 115.6
Individuals using Internet, %.................................2 ....... 94.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .................5 ....... 91.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................4 ....... 92.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........6 ....... 35.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............8 ....... 76.5
Use of virtual social networks* .............................6 ......... 6.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................10 ......... 6.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................14 ......... 4.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............11 ..... 144.4
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................8 ......... 6.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................13 ......... 5.7
Extent of staff training* .........................................9 ......... 5.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................19 ......... 4.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....13 ....... 0.86
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................21 ......... 5.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................2 25,372.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop .....................n/a ......... n/a
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................9 ..... 151.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................8 .. 1,810.6
Accessibility of digital content* .............................8 ......... 6.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................7 ....... 0.04
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..73 ..... 33.65
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..14 ......... 5.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......12 ....... 33.9
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....8 ......... 5.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............9 ....... 43.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......12 ......... 5.8
Internet access in schools* ................................17 ......... 5.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................25 ......... 5.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................15 ....... 0.68

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................18 ......... 5.0
Quality of math & science education* .................57 ......... 4.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..10 ..... 111.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 239

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Oman
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 40 ..4.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 40 .....4.4

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................37 ....4.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 34 .....4.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 33 .....4.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................56 ....4.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 66 .....4.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 34 .....5.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 68 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................37 ....4.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 50 .....4.3
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 52 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 21 .....5.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................41 ....4.0

Oman

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 61 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 34 .....4.7

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................14 ......... 5.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................36 ......... 4.8
Judicial independence* ......................................31 ......... 5.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....19 ......... 5.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....33 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................25 ......... 5.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........53 .......... 61
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............142 .......... 51
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................91 ........ 598

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................46 ......... 5.4
Venture capital availability* .................................14 ......... 3.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................13 ....... 22.0
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................47 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........78 ....... 28.7
Quality of management schools* ......................107 ......... 3.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............17 ......... 4.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................8 ..... 169.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................37 ....... 68.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............47 ....... 58.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................58 ....... 38.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......93 ......... 1.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........31 ....... 37.8
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................81 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................52 ......... 5.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................50 ......... 3.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............63 ......... 1.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................73 ......... 4.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................89 ......... 4.2
Extent of staff training* .......................................34 ......... 4.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................15 ......... 5.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....35 ....... 0.67
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................15 ......... 5.3

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................32 .. 6,571.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................74 ....... 98.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................98 ......... 6.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................60 ....... 53.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................53 ......... 5.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................34 ....... 0.16
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..59 ..... 29.74
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......68 ....... 1.87

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..55 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......66 ......... 0.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...60 ......... 4.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............54 ....... 24.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......31 ......... 5.1
Internet access in schools* ................................40 ......... 5.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................20 ......... 5.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................36 ....... 0.45

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................60 ......... 3.9
Quality of math & science education* .................86 ......... 3.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..21 ..... 104.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................98 ....... 86.6

240 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Pakistan
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............105 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 102 .....3.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................116 ....3.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 123 .....3.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 102 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................93 ....4.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 104 .....3.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 21 .....6.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 129 .....3.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................118 ....2.9
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 123 .....1.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 91 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 110 .....3.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................106 ....3.0

Pakistan

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 99 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 113 .....3.1

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................102 ......... 3.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................113 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ......................................57 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..109 ......... 3.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....97 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ........................106 ......... 3.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........97 .......... 86
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............131 .......... 46
No. days to enforce a contract ........................129 ........ 976

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................83 ......... 4.7
Venture capital availability* .................................55 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................63 ....... 35.3
No. days to start a business ..............................90 .......... 21
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*.............................85 ......... 4.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......117 ......... 8.3
Quality of management schools* ........................71 ......... 4.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............109 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............122 ....... 61.6
Individuals using Internet, %.............................120 ......... 9.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............107 ......... 8.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................98 ......... 8.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....111 ......... 0.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........118 ......... 0.2
Use of virtual social networks* .........................114 ......... 4.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................85 ......... 4.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................60 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............115 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................116 ......... 4.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................112 ......... 3.8
Extent of staff training* .....................................112 ......... 3.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................117 ......... 3.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....97 ....... 0.37
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................77 ......... 4.3

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................112 ..... 559.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................99 ....... 92.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................91 ......... 8.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................124 ......... 1.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................97 ......... 4.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................12 ....... 0.07
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..68 ..... 32.13
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 106 ......... 3.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......93 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...91 ......... 3.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............74 ....... 19.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....121 ......... 3.4
Internet access in schools* ................................93 ......... 3.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................121 ......... 3.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................75 ......... 3.6
Quality of math & science education* .................88 ......... 3.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 132 ....... 35.0
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................131 ....... 54.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 241

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Panama
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 46 ..4.2

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 57 .....4.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................48 ....4.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 69 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 32 .....4.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................60 ....4.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 51 .....4.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 32 .....6.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 99 .....4.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................51 ....4.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 65 .....3.6
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 39 .....3.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 37 .....4.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................48 ....3.8

Panama

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 73 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 39 .....4.4

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................113 ......... 2.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................37 ......... 4.8
Judicial independence* ....................................132 ......... 2.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....47 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....80 ......... 3.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................38 ......... 4.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........72 .......... 72
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................28 .......... 32
No. days to enforce a contract ........................106 ........ 686

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................30 ......... 6.0
Venture capital availability* .................................17 ......... 3.7
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................87 ....... 42.0
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................55 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........56 ....... 45.7
Quality of management schools* ........................82 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............11 ......... 4.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................3 ..... 188.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................66 ....... 42.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............77 ....... 29.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................77 ....... 20.7
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......65 ......... 7.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........66 ....... 14.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................25 ......... 6.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................25 ......... 5.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................94 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............75 ......... 0.5
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................39 ......... 5.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................19 ......... 5.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................43 ......... 4.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................20 ......... 4.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....76 ....... 0.46
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................20 ......... 5.2

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................83 .. 2,006.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................99 ....... 92.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................36 ....... 44.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................44 ..... 143.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................69 ......... 5.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................55 ....... 0.22
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..45 ..... 27.32
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..51 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......60 ......... 0.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...47 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............83 ....... 17.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......45 ......... 4.8
Internet access in schools* ................................37 ......... 5.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................38 ......... 4.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................46 ....... 0.32

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................112 ......... 3.0
Quality of math & science education* ...............125 ......... 2.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 100 ....... 73.6
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................66 ....... 94.1

242 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Paraguay
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............104 ..3.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 111 .....3.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................124 ....3.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 138 .....2.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 89 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................78 ....4.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 67 .....4.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 52 .....5.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 107 .....3.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................110 ....3.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 97 .....2.7
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 110 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 123 .....3.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................121 ....2.8

Paraguay

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 109 .....2.8
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 122 .....2.8

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................138 ......... 2.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................123 ......... 3.0
Judicial independence* ....................................141 ......... 1.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..127 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..124 ......... 2.7
Intellectual property protection* ........................136 ......... 2.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........92 .......... 83
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................88 ........ 591

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................100 ......... 4.5
Venture capital availability* .................................70 ......... 2.6
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................60 ....... 35.0
No. days to start a business ............................116 .......... 35
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*.............................73 ......... 4.8
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........72 ....... 34.6
Quality of management schools* ......................124 ......... 3.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............125 ......... 2.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................83 ....... 99.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................94 ....... 23.9
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............83 ....... 22.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................78 ....... 19.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....103 ......... 0.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........88 ......... 4.4
Use of virtual social networks* .........................106 ......... 4.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................102 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* ...................................109 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............92 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................113 ......... 4.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................87 ......... 4.2
Extent of staff training* .....................................107 ......... 3.5

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................133 ......... 2.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....79 ....... 0.46
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................126 ......... 3.3

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................19 .. 8,666.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................97 ....... 94.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................86 ......... 9.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................90 ......... 9.7
Accessibility of digital content* .........................106 ......... 4.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................62 ....... 0.26
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..69 ..... 32.43
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..99 ......... 4.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......80 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...97 ......... 3.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............92 ....... 14.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....125 ......... 3.3
Internet access in schools* ..............................131 ......... 2.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................119 ......... 3.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................76 ....... 0.16

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................133 ......... 2.5
Quality of math & science education* ...............140 ......... 2.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 104 ....... 67.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................68 ....... 93.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 243

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Peru
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............103 ..3.4

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 106 .....3.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................91 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 121 .....3.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 57 .....4.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................119 ....3.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 86 .....3.3
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 138 .....1.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 100 .....4.1

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................91 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 87 .....2.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 93 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 90 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................72 ....3.4

Peru

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 77 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 74 .....3.7

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................142 ......... 2.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................84 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ....................................125 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..118 ......... 3.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..105 ......... 3.1
Intellectual property protection* ........................127 ......... 2.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........65 .......... 67
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............110 .......... 41
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................46 ........ 428

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................75 ......... 4.9
Venture capital availability* .................................46 ......... 2.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................80 ....... 40.5
No. days to start a business ..............................99 .......... 26
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................49 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........59 ....... 43.0
Quality of management schools* ........................49 ......... 4.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............99 ......... 3.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................59 ..... 110.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................77 ....... 36.5
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............82 ....... 23.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................83 ....... 14.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......81 ......... 4.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........106 ......... 1.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................98 ......... 5.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................79 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* ...................................103 ......... 2.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............82 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................79 ......... 4.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................67 ......... 4.6
Extent of staff training* .......................................84 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................112 ......... 3.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....61 ....... 0.52
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................96 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................91 .. 1,229.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................87 ......... 9.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................80 ....... 18.6
Accessibility of digital content* .........................102 ......... 4.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................140 ....... 1.23
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 107 ..... 52.11
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..62 ......... 4.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......85 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...48 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............78 ....... 18.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......85 ......... 4.0
Internet access in schools* ................................89 ......... 3.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................99 ......... 3.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................38 ....... 0.39

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................132 ......... 2.5
Quality of math & science education* ...............141 ......... 2.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..62 ....... 91.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................89 ....... 89.6

244 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Philippines
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 86 ..3.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 86 .....3.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................100 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 98 .....3.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 100 .....3.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................85 ....4.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 84 .....3.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 82 .....4.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 73 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................76 ....3.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 95 .....2.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 47 .....3.7
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 67 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................68 ....3.5

Philippines

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 56 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 76 .....3.6

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................93 ......... 3.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................66 ......... 4.1
Judicial independence* ......................................99 ......... 3.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..107 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..102 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................87 ......... 3.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........70 .......... 70
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ........................121 ........ 842

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................56 ......... 5.2
Venture capital availability* .................................62 ......... 2.7
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................104 ....... 46.6
No. days to start a business ............................118 .......... 36
No. procedures to start a business ..................142 .......... 16
Intensity of local competition*.............................50 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........79 ....... 28.2
Quality of management schools* ........................39 ......... 4.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............107 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................84 ....... 99.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................91 ....... 29.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............97 ....... 13.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................91 ....... 10.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......92 ......... 1.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........94 ......... 3.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................27 ......... 6.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................46 ......... 5.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................86 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............80 ......... 0.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................51 ......... 5.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................51 ......... 4.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................32 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................85 ......... 3.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....67 ....... 0.50
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................71 ......... 4.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................105 ..... 675.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................77 ....... 12.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................97 ......... 7.5
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................74 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................73 ....... 0.29
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..95 ..... 40.30
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..43 ......... 4.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......74 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...33 ......... 4.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............72 ....... 19.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......79 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................73 ......... 4.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................83 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................62 ....... 0.21

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................45 ......... 4.1
Quality of math & science education* .................98 ......... 3.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..84 ....... 84.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................61 ....... 95.4

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 245

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Poland
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 49 ..4.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 49 .....4.2

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................55 ....4.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 62 .....3.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 53 .....4.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................37 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 38 .....5.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 47 .....5.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 47 .....5.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................50 ....4.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 33 .....5.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 74 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 107 .....3.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................77 ....3.4

Poland

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 64 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 86 .....3.5

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................82 ......... 3.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................91 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................50 ......... 4.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..111 ......... 3.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..103 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................67 ......... 3.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........40 .......... 53
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................36 .......... 33
No. days to enforce a contract ........................105 ........ 685

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................95 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* .................................90 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................95 ....... 43.8
No. days to start a business ............................108 .......... 32
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................30 ......... 5.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........19 ....... 72.4
Quality of management schools* ........................85 ......... 4.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............101 ......... 3.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................30 ..... 131.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................40 ....... 64.9
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............35 ....... 71.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................32 ....... 66.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......42 ....... 14.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........18 ....... 49.6
Use of virtual social networks* .........................118 ......... 4.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................112 ......... 4.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................54 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............40 ......... 6.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................95 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................43 ......... 4.9
Extent of staff training* .......................................59 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................123 ......... 3.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....55 ....... 0.54
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................117 ......... 3.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................55 .. 4,111.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................46 ....... 99.5
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................37 ....... 40.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................33 ..... 269.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................73 ......... 5.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................45 ....... 0.19
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..63 ..... 31.52
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......83 ....... 1.77

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..97 ......... 4.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......36 ......... 1.6
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...95 ......... 3.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............36 ....... 32.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....108 ......... 3.7
Internet access in schools* ................................53 ......... 4.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................114 ......... 3.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................70 ....... 0.18

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................68 ......... 3.7
Quality of math & science education* .................59 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..47 ....... 97.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................12 ....... 99.5

246 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Portugal
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 33 ..4.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 33 .....4.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................38 ....4.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 43 .....4.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 27 .....4.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................34 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 34 .....5.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 57 .....5.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 48 .....5.1

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................32 ....4.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 41 .....4.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 36 .....3.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 28 .....4.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................35 ....4.3

Portugal

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 36 .....3.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 30 .....4.9

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................74 ......... 3.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................19 ......... 5.2
Judicial independence* ......................................67 ......... 3.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..121 ......... 2.9
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..101 ......... 3.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................42 ......... 4.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........25 .......... 40
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................28 .......... 32
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................78 ........ 547

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................15 ......... 6.3
Venture capital availability* .................................97 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................90 ....... 42.6
No. days to start a business ..............................10 ............ 5
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................62 ......... 4.9
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........26 ....... 65.5
Quality of management schools* ........................22 ......... 5.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............36 ......... 4.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................55 ..... 115.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................48 ....... 55.3
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............43 ....... 63.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................43 ....... 58.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......34 ....... 21.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........44 ....... 27.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................39 ......... 5.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................27 ......... 5.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................40 ......... 3.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............30 ....... 12.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................37 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................35 ......... 5.1
Extent of staff training* .......................................73 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................21 ......... 4.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....38 ....... 0.65
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................29 ......... 5.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................46 .. 4,952.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................11 ..... 135.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................36 ..... 223.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................29 ......... 6.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................67 ....... 0.27
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..72 ..... 33.19
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..22 ......... 5.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......30 ......... 3.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...31 ......... 4.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............53 ....... 24.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......24 ......... 5.4
Internet access in schools* ................................26 ......... 5.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................12 ......... 5.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................41 ....... 0.37

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................61 ......... 3.8
Quality of math & science education* .................94 ......... 3.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..14 ..... 109.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................63 ....... 95.2

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 247

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Puerto Rico
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 36 ..4.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 36 .....4.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................35 ....4.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 35 .....4.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 30 .....4.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................69 ....4.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 52 .....4.4
4th pillar: Affordability ....................................................... n/a .....n/a
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 55 .....5.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................39 ....4.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 59 .....3.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 21 .....4.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 46 .....4.4

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................26 ....4.6

Puerto Rico

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 21 .....4.6
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 37 .....4.5

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................115 ......... 2.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................38 ......... 4.8
Judicial independence* ......................................41 ......... 4.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....24 ......... 4.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....23 ......... 4.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................13 ......... 5.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........29 .......... 42
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................95 ........ 620

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................31 ......... 6.0
Venture capital availability* .................................54 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................115 ....... 50.7
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................17 ......... 5.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........6 ....... 86.2
Quality of management schools* ........................44 ......... 4.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............56 ......... 3.7

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............105 ....... 83.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................59 ....... 48.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............51 ....... 55.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................50 ....... 50.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......41 ....... 14.9
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........65 ....... 14.7
Use of virtual social networks* .............................9 ......... 6.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................26 ......... 5.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................38 ......... 3.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. .............n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................41 ......... 5.5
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................32 ......... 5.2
Extent of staff training* .......................................19 ......... 4.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................64 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)....n/a ......... n/a
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................49 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................39 .. 5,536.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................128 ....... 68.4
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................10 ..... 135.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................52 ..... 105.5
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................30 ......... 5.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. ......................n/a ......... n/a
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month .n/a ......... n/a
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) .....n/a ......... n/a

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..50 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. ......n/a ......... n/a
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...32 ......... 4.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............39 ....... 31.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......51 ......... 4.7
Internet access in schools* ................................57 ......... 4.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................52 ......... 4.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)........................n/a ......... n/a

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................51 ......... 4.0
Quality of math & science education* .................84 ......... 3.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..95 ....... 77.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................84 ....... 90.4

248 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Qatar
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 23 ..5.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 28 .....4.8

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................14 ....5.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 18 .....5.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 12 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................44 ....5.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 35 .....5.2
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 103 .....3.9
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 5 .....6.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................16 ....5.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 16 .....5.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 27 .....4.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 5 .....5.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................23 ....4.8

Qatar

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 33 .....3.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 8 .....5.8

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................13 ......... 5.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................7 ......... 5.5
Judicial independence* ......................................10 ......... 6.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....10 ......... 5.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....14 ......... 4.9
Intellectual property protection* ............................8 ......... 5.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........38 .......... 50
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............121 .......... 43
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................82 ........ 570

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................25 ......... 6.1
Venture capital availability* ...................................1 ......... 4.7
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................3 ....... 11.3
No. days to start a business ..............................43 ............ 9
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*.............................12 ......... 5.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......108 ....... 11.6
Quality of management schools* ..........................7 ......... 5.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................1 ......... 5.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................43 ..... 123.1
Individuals using Internet, %.................................8 ....... 86.2
Households w/ personal computer, % .................8 ....... 88.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................12 ....... 83.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......62 ......... 8.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........11 ....... 70.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................11 ......... 6.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................9 ......... 6.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................18 ......... 4.6
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............56 ......... 1.8
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................13 ......... 6.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................33 ......... 5.2
Extent of staff training* .......................................11 ......... 5.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................2 ......... 5.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....27 ....... 0.74
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................2 ......... 6.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................6 15,519.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................57 ....... 22.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................47 ..... 126.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................27 ......... 6.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................26 ....... 0.15
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 108 ..... 52.82
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....127 ....... 0.93

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..12 ......... 5.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......58 ......... 0.3
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....3 ......... 5.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............55 ....... 24.2

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........1 ......... 6.1
Internet access in schools* ................................10 ......... 6.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................2 ......... 6.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................22 ....... 0.63

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................4 ......... 5.7
Quality of math & science education* ...................9 ......... 5.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..28 ..... 101.7
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................56 ....... 96.3

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 249

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Romania
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 75 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 67 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................89 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 106 .....3.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 70 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................52 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 47 .....4.6
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 62 .....5.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 58 .....4.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................69 ....3.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 57 .....4.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 94 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 96 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................97 ....3.1

Romania

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 94 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 97 .....3.3

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................127 ......... 2.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................88 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ....................................114 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..133 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..128 ......... 2.7
Intellectual property protection* ........................114 ......... 2.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........58 .......... 63
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................28 .......... 32
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................69 ........ 512

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................117 ......... 4.2
Venture capital availability* .................................76 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................97 ....... 44.2
No. days to start a business ..............................49 .......... 10
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................102 ......... 4.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........40 ....... 58.8
Quality of management schools* ......................112 ......... 3.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............114 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................63 ..... 109.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................64 ....... 44.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............55 ....... 51.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................51 ....... 47.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......40 ....... 15.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........67 ....... 14.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................73 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................116 ......... 4.1
Capacity for innovation* .....................................77 ......... 3.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............55 ......... 1.8
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................86 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................41 ......... 5.0
Extent of staff training* .....................................111 ......... 3.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................106 ......... 3.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....61 ....... 0.52
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................107 ......... 3.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................70 .. 2,688.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................13 ..... 126.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................59 ....... 53.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................57 ......... 5.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................124 ....... 0.57
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..12 ..... 17.16
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 105 ......... 3.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......48 ......... 0.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .103 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............64 ....... 21.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......95 ......... 3.9
Internet access in schools* ................................64 ......... 4.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................107 ......... 3.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................108 ......... 3.1
Quality of math & science education* .................55 ......... 4.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..45 ....... 97.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................52 ....... 97.7

250 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Russian Federation
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 54 ..4.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 56 .....4.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................102 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 108 .....3.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 90 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................32 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 43 .....4.7
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 18 .....6.2
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 61 .....4.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................56 ....3.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 45 .....4.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 95 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 74 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................53 ....3.7

Russian Federation

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 54 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 50 .....4.1

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................107 ......... 3.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................106 ......... 3.3
Judicial independence* ....................................122 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..124 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..127 ......... 2.7
Intellectual property protection* ........................125 ......... 2.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........58 .......... 63
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ............................7 ........ 270

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................129 ......... 3.9
Venture capital availability* .................................85 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................121 ....... 54.1
No. days to start a business ..............................77 .......... 18
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*...........................124 ......... 4.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........14 ....... 75.9
Quality of management schools* ......................115 ......... 3.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............124 ......... 2.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................5 ..... 179.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................57 ....... 49.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............50 ....... 57.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................53 ....... 46.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......46 ....... 13.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........20 ....... 47.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................99 ......... 5.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................141 ......... 3.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................56 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............43 ......... 6.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................107 ......... 4.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................63 ......... 4.6
Extent of staff training* .......................................89 ......... 3.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................116 ......... 3.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....37 ....... 0.66
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................108 ......... 3.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................29 .. 6,976.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................90 ....... 95.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................45 ....... 31.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................68 ....... 27.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................63 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................46 ....... 0.19
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....9 ..... 16.52
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......93 ....... 1.60

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 123 ......... 3.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......38 ......... 1.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .106 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............18 ....... 40.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....116 ......... 3.5
Internet access in schools* ................................70 ......... 4.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................110 ......... 3.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................19 ....... 0.66

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................86 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* .................52 ......... 4.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..75 ....... 88.6
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................10 ....... 99.6

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 251

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Rwanda
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 88 ..3.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 82 .....3.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................29 ....4.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 13 .....5.3
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 59 .....4.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................116 ....3.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 105 .....3.0
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 116 .....3.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 113 .....3.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................107 ....3.1
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 139 .....1.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 67 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 59 .....4.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................61 ....3.6

Rwanda

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 58 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 61 .....3.9

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................9 ......... 5.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................34 ......... 4.9
Judicial independence* ......................................25 ......... 5.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....15 ......... 5.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....17 ......... 4.8
Intellectual property protection* ..........................32 ......... 4.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................3 .......... 23
No. days to enforce a contract ............................3 ........ 230

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................87 ......... 4.7
Venture capital availability* .................................27 ......... 3.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................41 ....... 31.3
No. days to start a business ................................5 ............ 3
No. procedures to start a business ......................3 ............ 2
Intensity of local competition*.............................98 ......... 4.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......123 ......... 6.6
Quality of management schools* ........................73 ......... 4.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............10 ......... 4.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............138 ....... 40.6
Individuals using Internet, %.............................124 ......... 7.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............139 ......... 1.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................112 ......... 3.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....132 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........110 ......... 1.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................128 ......... 4.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................84 ......... 4.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................55 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ...................n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-consumer Internet use* .................n/a ......... n/a
Extent of staff training* .......................................69 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................10 ......... 5.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...103 ....... 0.34
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*.......................n/a ......... n/a

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................140 ....... 23.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................80 ....... 97.3
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............111 ......... 4.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................130 ......... 0.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................95 ......... 4.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................81 ....... 0.32
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 134 ... 232.09
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......59 ....... 1.93

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..45 ......... 4.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...61 ......... 4.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......50 ......... 4.7
Internet access in schools* ................................66 ......... 4.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................13 ......... 5.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................50 ......... 4.1
Quality of math & science education* .................62 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 131 ....... 35.8
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................115 ....... 71.1

252 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Saudi Arabia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 31 ..4.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 34 .....4.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................25 ....4.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 29 .....4.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 25 .....5.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................39 ....5.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 36 .....5.1
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 65 .....5.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 37 .....5.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................31 ....4.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 47 .....4.4
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 30 .....4.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 6 .....5.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................31 ....4.4

Saudi Arabia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 42 .....3.6
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 18 .....5.2

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................26 ......... 4.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................25 ......... 5.0
Judicial independence* ......................................26 ......... 5.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....31 ......... 4.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....24 ......... 4.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................27 ......... 5.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........39 .......... 51
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................99 ........ 635

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................34 ......... 5.9
Venture capital availability* .................................18 ......... 3.7
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................5 ....... 14.5
No. days to start a business ..............................90 .......... 21
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*.............................14 ......... 5.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........70 ....... 36.8
Quality of management schools* ........................45 ......... 4.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................5 ......... 4.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................2 ..... 191.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................61 ....... 47.5
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............48 ....... 57.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................46 ....... 54.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......73 ......... 5.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........27 ....... 40.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................64 ......... 5.5

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................20 ......... 5.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................29 ......... 3.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............48 ......... 3.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................28 ......... 5.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................50 ......... 4.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................35 ......... 4.4

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................7 ......... 5.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....19 ....... 0.80
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................3 ......... 6.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................24 .. 8,097.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................49 ....... 99.3
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................43 ....... 33.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................72 ....... 21.5
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................43 ......... 5.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................40 ....... 0.17
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..65 ..... 31.72
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....105 ....... 1.33

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..26 ......... 5.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......44 ......... 0.9
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...16 ......... 5.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............59 ....... 22.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......16 ......... 5.6
Internet access in schools* ................................42 ......... 4.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................7 ......... 5.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................22 ....... 0.63

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................32 ......... 4.4
Quality of math & science education* .................37 ......... 4.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..34 ..... 100.6
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................100 ....... 86.6

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 253

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Senegal
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............107 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 100 .....3.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................101 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 114 .....3.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 76 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................120 ....3.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 108 .....2.9
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 118 .....3.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 126 .....3.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................100 ....3.2
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 113 .....2.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 66 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 82 .....3.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................67 ....3.5

Senegal

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 60 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 75 .....3.7

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................112 ......... 2.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................83 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ....................................118 ......... 2.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....71 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....84 ......... 3.4
Intellectual property protection* ..........................95 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........80 .......... 78
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............121 .......... 43
No. days to enforce a contract ........................115 ........ 780

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................49 ......... 5.3
Venture capital availability* ...............................114 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................103 ....... 46.0
No. days to start a business ..............................10 ............ 5
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*.............................52 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......119 ......... 7.9
Quality of management schools* ........................41 ......... 4.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............51 ......... 3.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............114 ....... 73.3
Individuals using Internet, %.............................103 ....... 17.5
Households w/ personal computer, % .............116 ......... 5.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................106 ......... 4.5
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....106 ......... 0.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........105 ......... 1.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................70 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................36 ......... 5.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................69 ......... 3.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............109 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................56 ......... 5.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................73 ......... 4.5
Extent of staff training* .....................................135 ......... 3.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................79 ......... 3.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...102 ....... 0.35
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................44 ......... 4.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................120 ..... 236.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................101 ....... 90.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............118 ......... 2.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................118 ......... 1.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................77 ......... 4.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................79 ....... 0.32
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 114 ..... 67.50
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......85 ....... 1.76

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..39 ......... 4.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......84 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...72 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......75 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................84 ......... 3.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................51 ......... 4.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................62 ....... 0.21

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................73 ......... 3.6
Quality of math & science education* .................79 ......... 3.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 126 ....... 42.1
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................133 ....... 49.7

254 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Serbia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 87 ..3.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 85 .....3.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................106 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 115 .....3.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 85 .....4.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................67 ....4.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 54 .....4.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 84 .....4.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 65 .....4.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................78 ....3.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 55 .....4.0
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 135 .....2.7
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 104 .....3.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................98 ....3.1

Serbia

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 105 .....2.8
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 93 .....3.4

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................92 ......... 3.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................100 ......... 3.5
Judicial independence* ....................................129 ......... 2.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..138 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..133 ......... 2.6
Intellectual property protection* ........................116 ......... 2.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........72 .......... 72
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................99 ........ 635

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................127 ......... 3.9
Venture capital availability* ...............................126 ......... 1.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................52 ....... 34.0
No. days to start a business ..............................56 .......... 12
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................137 ......... 3.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........51 ....... 50.4
Quality of management schools* ......................116 ......... 3.5
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............115 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................38 ..... 125.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................67 ....... 42.2
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............56 ....... 50.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................57 ....... 40.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......51 ....... 11.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........37 ....... 34.5
Use of virtual social networks* .........................134 ......... 4.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................142 ......... 3.6
Capacity for innovation* ...................................120 ......... 2.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............52 ......... 2.8
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................118 ......... 4.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................123 ......... 3.5
Extent of staff training* .....................................138 ......... 2.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................124 ......... 3.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....48 ....... 0.58
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................125 ......... 3.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................43 .. 5,111.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................107 ....... 87.4
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................21 ....... 76.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................65 ....... 28.9
Accessibility of digital content* .........................107 ......... 4.2

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................41 ....... 0.18
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..93 ..... 40.16
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......98 ....... 1.43

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 130 ......... 3.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......47 ......... 0.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .132 ......... 3.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............45 ....... 28.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......93 ......... 3.9
Internet access in schools* ................................92 ......... 3.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................111 ......... 3.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................58 ....... 0.24

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................111 ......... 3.1
Quality of math & science education* .................60 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..61 ....... 91.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................48 ....... 97.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 255

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Seychelles
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 79 ..3.8

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ..................... n/a .....n/a

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................53 ....4.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 50 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 63 .....4.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................106 ....3.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 44 .....4.7
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 139 .....1.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 60 .....4.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................57 ....3.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 62 .....3.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 64 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 51 .....4.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................69 ....3.5

Seychelles

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 78 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 69 .....3.8

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................36 ......... 4.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................64 ......... 4.1
Judicial independence* ......................................62 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....55 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....35 ......... 4.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................52 ......... 3.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................68 .......... 37
No. days to enforce a contract ........................126 ........ 915

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................67 ......... 5.0
Venture capital availability* .................................81 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................23 ....... 25.7
No. days to start a business ............................120 .......... 39
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*.............................90 ......... 4.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %.......n/a ......... n/a
Quality of management schools* ........................84 ......... 4.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............38 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................18 ..... 145.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................65 ....... 43.2
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............66 ....... 45.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................66 ....... 34.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......55 ....... 10.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........86 ......... 4.7
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................52 ......... 5.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................51 ......... 5.1
Capacity for innovation* .....................................84 ......... 3.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............27 ....... 26.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................68 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................114 ......... 3.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................62 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................17 ......... 5.0
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...104 ....... 0.33
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................35 ......... 4.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................67 .. 2,806.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................74 ....... 98.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............103 ......... 5.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................16 .. 1,348.8
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................65 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................131 ....... 0.74
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 125 ..... 90.19
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....122 ....... 1.08

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..57 ......... 4.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...87 ......... 3.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......43 ......... 4.8
Internet access in schools* ................................52 ......... 4.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................67 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................48 ......... 4.1
Quality of math & science education* .................72 ......... 4.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....5 ..... 119.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................80 ....... 91.8

256 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Sierra Leone
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............143 ..2.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ..................... n/a .....n/a

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................114 ....3.4
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 86 .....3.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 127 .....3.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................144 ....1.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 131 .....2.1
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 141 .....1.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 144 .....2.1

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................137 ....2.5
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 133 .....1.6
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 141 .....2.6
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 119 .....3.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................133 ....2.4

Sierra Leone

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 133 .....2.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 131 .....2.5

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................46 ......... 4.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................107 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ....................................107 ......... 2.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....64 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..110 ......... 3.0
Intellectual property protection* ........................102 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................90 .......... 39
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................71 ........ 515

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................140 ......... 3.5
Venture capital availability* ...............................141 ......... 1.6
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................43 ....... 32.1
No. days to start a business ..............................56 .......... 12
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...........................136 ......... 3.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......138 ......... 2.1
Quality of management schools* ......................126 ......... 3.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............103 ......... 3.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............139 ....... 35.6
Individuals using Internet, %.............................144 ......... 0.3
Households w/ personal computer, % .............142 ......... 0.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ...................n/a ......... n/a
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....143 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop.........n/a ......... n/a
Use of virtual social networks* .........................139 ......... 3.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................131 ......... 3.9
Capacity for innovation* ...................................136 ......... 2.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............94 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................127 ......... 4.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................138 ......... 2.6
Extent of staff training* .....................................125 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................89 ......... 3.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...132 ....... 0.17
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................76 ......... 4.3

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................141 ....... 20.9
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................124 ....... 70.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user...............n/a ......... n/a
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................132 ......... 0.7
Accessibility of digital content* .........................139 ......... 3.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. ......................n/a ......... n/a
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 117 ..... 71.76
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....127 ....... 0.93

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 132 ......... 3.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .140 ......... 2.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....136 ......... 3.1
Internet access in schools* ..............................136 ......... 1.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................118 ......... 3.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................106 ....... 0.05

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................125 ......... 2.8
Quality of math & science education* ...............134 ......... 2.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 138 ....... 27.6
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................136 ....... 42.1

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 257

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Singapore
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 2 ..6.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 2 .....5.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................1 ....5.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 1 .....6.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 1 .....5.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................11 ....6.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 19 .....6.2
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 55 .....5.5
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 2 .....6.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................3 ....5.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 11 .....6.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 14 .....5.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 1 .....6.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................1 ....6.1

Singapore

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 2 .....6.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 1 .....6.3

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................1 ......... 6.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................2 ......... 5.8
Judicial independence* ......................................20 ......... 5.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......1 ......... 6.2
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......6 ......... 5.5
Intellectual property protection* ............................2 ......... 6.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........18 .......... 33
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..................1 .......... 21
No. days to enforce a contract ............................1 ........ 150

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................12 ......... 6.3
Venture capital availability* ...................................4 ......... 4.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................27 ....... 27.6
No. days to start a business ................................5 ............ 3
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*.............................21 ......... 5.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........20 ....... 72.0
Quality of management schools* ..........................6 ......... 5.7
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................2 ......... 5.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................15 ..... 150.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................32 ....... 71.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............12 ....... 86.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................10 ....... 84.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......20 ....... 25.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............1 ..... 114.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................18 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................8 ......... 6.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................20 ......... 4.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............13 ..... 120.4
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................10 ......... 6.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................30 ......... 5.3
Extent of staff training* .........................................3 ......... 5.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................1 ......... 5.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......1 ....... 1.00
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................4 ......... 6.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................22 .. 8,381.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................37 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................2 ..... 343.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................22 ..... 607.3
Accessibility of digital content* .............................7 ......... 6.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................37 ....... 0.17
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..86 ..... 37.09
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....6 ......... 5.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........8 ....... 56.5
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....7 ......... 5.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............2 ....... 51.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........2 ......... 6.1
Internet access in schools* ..................................5 ......... 6.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................1 ......... 6.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................3 ....... 0.95

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................3 ......... 5.8
Quality of math & science education* ...................1 ......... 6.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..17 ..... 107.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................59 ....... 95.9

258 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Slovak Republic
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 61 ..4.0

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 64 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................62 ....4.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 70 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 61 .....4.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................92 ....4.1
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 56 .....4.3
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 113 .....3.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 75 .....4.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................49 ....4.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 35 .....4.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 65 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 100 .....3.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................57 ....3.7

Slovak Republic

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 44 .....3.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 66 .....3.8

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................97 ......... 3.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................63 ......... 4.1
Judicial independence* ....................................115 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..140 ......... 2.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..140 ......... 2.4
Intellectual property protection* ..........................58 ......... 3.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........25 .......... 40
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................28 .......... 32
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................76 ........ 545

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................59 ......... 5.2
Venture capital availability* .................................60 ......... 2.8
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................108 ....... 47.9
No. days to start a business ..............................72 .......... 16
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................27 ......... 5.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........46 ....... 54.8
Quality of management schools* ......................111 ......... 3.6
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............127 ......... 2.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................60 ..... 109.3
Individuals using Internet, %...............................25 ....... 74.4
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............30 ....... 75.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................29 ....... 70.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......44 ....... 13.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........40 ....... 31.9
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................53 ......... 5.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................59 ......... 4.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................88 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............39 ......... 7.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................43 ......... 5.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................39 ......... 5.0
Extent of staff training* .......................................95 ......... 3.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................101 ......... 3.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....66 ....... 0.50
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................113 ......... 3.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................44 .. 5,033.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................78 ....... 12.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................42 ..... 163.8
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................37 ......... 5.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................134 ....... 0.82
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..90 ..... 37.62
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......77 ....... 1.82

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..77 ......... 4.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......33 ......... 2.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...74 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............34 ....... 34.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......80 ......... 4.1
Internet access in schools* ................................29 ......... 5.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................93 ......... 3.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................81 ....... 0.13

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................120 ......... 2.8
Quality of math & science education* .................83 ......... 3.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..66 ....... 90.4
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 259

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Slovenia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 37 ..4.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 37 .....4.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................44 ....4.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 61 .....3.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 28 .....4.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................31 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 25 .....5.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 85 .....4.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 36 .....5.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................35 ....4.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 32 .....5.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 32 .....3.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 52 .....4.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................40 ....4.0

Slovenia

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 34 .....3.8
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 46 .....4.3

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................109 ......... 3.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................35 ......... 4.8
Judicial independence* ......................................70 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..126 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..116 ......... 2.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................41 ......... 4.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........33 .......... 46
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................28 .......... 32
No. days to enforce a contract ........................135 ..... 1,290

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................41 ......... 5.6
Venture capital availability* ...............................113 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................57 ....... 34.7
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ......................3 ............ 2
Intensity of local competition*.............................41 ......... 5.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........4 ....... 89.6
Quality of management schools* ........................66 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............106 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................70 ..... 106.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................28 ....... 72.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............31 ....... 74.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................26 ....... 72.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......24 ....... 24.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........43 ....... 29.3
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................69 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................78 ......... 4.7
Capacity for innovation* .....................................31 ......... 3.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............23 ....... 60.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................26 ......... 5.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................55 ......... 4.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................91 ......... 3.7

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................99 ......... 3.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....35 ....... 0.67
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................74 ......... 4.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................26 .. 7,931.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................41 ....... 99.7
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................26 ....... 68.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................28 ..... 433.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................34 ......... 5.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................70 ....... 0.28
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..96 ..... 41.06
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..69 ......... 4.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......25 ......... 8.6
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...79 ......... 4.1
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............25 ....... 38.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......44 ......... 4.8
Internet access in schools* ................................20 ......... 5.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................71 ......... 4.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................62 ....... 0.21

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................63 ......... 3.8
Quality of math & science education* .................18 ......... 5.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..44 ....... 97.3
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................9 ....... 99.7

260 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

South Africa
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 70 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 72 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................33 ....4.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 21 .....5.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 55 .....4.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................95 ....4.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 59 .....4.2
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 104 .....3.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 102 .....4.0

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................72 ....3.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 81 .....3.0
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 33 .....3.9
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 102 .....3.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................92 ....3.2

South Africa

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 51 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 112 .....3.1

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................31 ......... 4.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................29 ......... 5.0
Judicial independence* ......................................27 ......... 5.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....17 ......... 5.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....16 ......... 4.8
Intellectual property protection* ..........................20 ......... 5.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........20 .......... 35
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................15 .......... 29
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................92 ........ 600

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................39 ......... 5.7
Venture capital availability* .................................37 ......... 3.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................47 ....... 33.3
No. days to start a business ..............................81 .......... 19
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................51 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......100 ....... 15.4
Quality of management schools* ........................15 ......... 5.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............105 ......... 3.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................37 ..... 126.8
Individuals using Internet, %...............................96 ....... 21.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............90 ....... 18.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................94 ......... 9.8
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......96 ......... 1.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........55 ....... 19.8
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................86 ......... 5.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................38 ......... 5.4
Capacity for innovation* .....................................41 ......... 3.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............42 ......... 6.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................36 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................52 ......... 4.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................26 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................105 ......... 3.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....79 ....... 0.46
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................100 ......... 3.9

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................45 .. 5,004.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................40 ....... 99.8
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................66 ....... 18.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................54 ....... 73.9
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................85 ......... 4.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................117 ....... 0.51
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..89 ..... 37.48
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....118 ....... 1.13

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..44 ......... 4.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......42 ......... 1.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...53 ......... 4.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............58 ....... 23.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....123 ......... 3.4
Internet access in schools* ..............................111 ......... 3.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................97 ......... 3.8
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................76 ....... 0.16

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................140 ......... 2.2
Quality of math & science education* ...............143 ......... 2.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..56 ....... 93.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................93 ....... 88.7

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 261

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Spain
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 38 ..4.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 38 .....4.5

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................40 ....4.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 44 .....4.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 29 .....4.8

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................61 ....4.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 31 .....5.4
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 102 .....3.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 46 .....5.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................33 ....4.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 31 .....5.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 41 .....3.8
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 42 .....4.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................36 ....4.2

Spain

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 32 .....3.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 36 .....4.6

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................60 ......... 3.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................39 ......... 4.7
Judicial independence* ......................................60 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....69 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....62 ......... 3.8
Intellectual property protection* ..........................50 ......... 4.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........32 .......... 44
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................65 ........ 510

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................33 ......... 5.9
Venture capital availability* .................................75 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................73 ....... 38.7
No. days to start a business ............................105 .......... 28
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*.............................23 ......... 5.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........12 ....... 78.1
Quality of management schools* ..........................4 ......... 5.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............89 ......... 3.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................57 ..... 113.2
Individuals using Internet, %...............................38 ....... 67.6
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............32 ....... 71.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................36 ....... 63.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......26 ....... 23.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........25 ....... 41.6
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................59 ......... 5.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................48 ......... 5.1
Capacity for innovation* .....................................44 ......... 3.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............25 ....... 38.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................46 ......... 5.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................40 ......... 5.0
Extent of staff training* .....................................105 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................84 ......... 3.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....23 ....... 0.76
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................87 ......... 4.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................33 .. 6,409.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................38 ....... 99.8
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................27 ....... 64.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................32 ..... 284.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................36 ......... 5.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................132 ....... 0.75
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..71 ..... 32.84
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..38 ......... 4.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......26 ......... 8.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...51 ......... 4.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............37 ....... 32.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......34 ......... 5.1
Internet access in schools* ................................47 ......... 4.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................48 ......... 4.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................31 ....... 0.50

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................81 ......... 3.5
Quality of math & science education* .................97 ......... 3.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ....2 ..... 124.7
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................51 ....... 97.7

262 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Sri Lanka
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 69 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 71 .....3.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................63 ....4.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 68 .....3.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 67 .....4.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................64 ....4.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 101 .....3.1
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 29 .....6.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 38 .....5.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................90 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 110 .....2.2
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 57 .....3.6
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 57 .....4.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................70 ....3.5

Sri Lanka

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 62 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 77 .....3.6

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................25 ......... 4.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................67 ......... 4.0
Judicial independence* ......................................56 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....33 ......... 4.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....34 ......... 4.4
Intellectual property protection* ..........................55 ......... 3.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........94 .......... 84
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ........................136 ..... 1,318

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................62 ......... 5.1
Venture capital availability* ...............................107 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................113 ....... 50.1
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................26 ......... 5.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........99 ....... 15.5
Quality of management schools* ........................38 ......... 4.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................7 ......... 4.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............100 ....... 87.0
Individuals using Internet, %.............................107 ....... 15.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............100 ....... 12.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................104 ......... 5.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......97 ......... 1.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........99 ......... 2.3
Use of virtual social networks* .........................112 ......... 4.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................42 ......... 5.2
Capacity for innovation* .....................................93 ......... 2.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............74 ......... 0.5
Business-to-business Internet use* ...................n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-consumer Internet use* .................n/a ......... n/a
Extent of staff training* .......................................80 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................14 ......... 5.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....93 ....... 0.38
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*.......................n/a ......... n/a

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................113 ..... 483.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................74 ....... 98.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............105 ......... 5.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................99 ......... 6.0
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................99 ......... 4.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................5 ....... 0.04
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....2 ..... 10.98
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....129 ....... 0.88

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..40 ......... 4.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......78 ......... 0.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...42 ......... 4.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............73 ....... 19.7

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......41 ......... 4.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................105 ......... 3.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................31 ......... 4.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................33 ......... 4.4
Quality of math & science education* .................69 ......... 4.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..36 ..... 100.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................81 ....... 91.2

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 263

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Suriname
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............117 ..3.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 121 .....3.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................135 ....3.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 135 .....2.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 125 .....3.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................100 ....3.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 118 .....2.7
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 90 .....4.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 89 .....4.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................112 ....3.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 79 .....3.1
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 113 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 138 .....2.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................130 ....2.5

Suriname

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 113 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 137 .....2.3

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................119 ......... 2.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................139 ......... 2.3
Judicial independence* ......................................55 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..116 ......... 3.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..115 ......... 2.9
Intellectual property protection* ........................129 ......... 2.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............124 .......... 44
No. days to enforce a contract ........................143 ..... 1,715

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................110 ......... 4.3
Venture capital availability* ...............................123 ......... 2.0
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................29 ....... 27.9
No. days to start a business ............................143 ........ 694
No. procedures to start a business ..................132 .......... 13
Intensity of local competition*.............................76 ......... 4.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......106 ....... 12.1
Quality of management schools* ........................63 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............126 ......... 2.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..................6 ..... 178.9
Individuals using Internet, %...............................83 ....... 32.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............74 ....... 32.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................80 ....... 17.5
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......77 ......... 4.6
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................110 ......... 4.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................121 ......... 4.1
Capacity for innovation* ...................................106 ......... 2.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............71 ......... 0.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................125 ......... 4.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................125 ......... 3.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................47 ......... 4.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................137 ......... 2.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...133 ....... 0.16
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................111 ......... 3.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................63 .. 3,083.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop .....................n/a ......... n/a
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................83 ....... 10.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................63 ....... 34.0
Accessibility of digital content* .........................112 ......... 4.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................44 ....... 0.19
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..92 ..... 40.08
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....121 ....... 1.10

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 127 ......... 3.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .124 ......... 3.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............65 ....... 21.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....129 ......... 3.2
Internet access in schools* ..............................125 ......... 2.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................141 ......... 2.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................84 ......... 3.4
Quality of math & science education* .................85 ......... 3.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..98 ....... 74.8
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................64 ....... 94.7

264 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Swaziland
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............136 ..2.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 136 .....2.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................133 ....3.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 112 .....3.2
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 138 .....3.0

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................130 ....2.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 112 .....2.8
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 137 .....2.0
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 110 .....3.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................138 ....2.5
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 119 .....2.0
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 124 .....2.9
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 140 .....2.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................137 ....2.3

Swaziland

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 140 .....2.2
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 134 .....2.4

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................110 ......... 2.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................133 ......... 2.6
Judicial independence* ......................................90 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....81 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..108 ......... 3.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................69 ......... 3.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................99 .......... 40
No. days to enforce a contract ........................128 ........ 956

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................131 ......... 3.8
Venture capital availability* ...............................120 ......... 2.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................69 ....... 36.8
No. days to start a business ............................129 .......... 56
No. procedures to start a business ..................126 .......... 12
Intensity of local competition*...........................111 ......... 4.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......127 ......... 4.4
Quality of management schools* ......................135 ......... 2.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............137 ......... 2.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............121 ....... 63.7
Individuals using Internet, %.............................100 ....... 18.1
Households w/ personal computer, % .............103 ....... 10.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................110 ......... 3.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....118 ......... 0.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........112 ......... 0.7
Use of virtual social networks* .........................101 ......... 5.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................124 ......... 4.0
Capacity for innovation* ...................................130 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............95 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................98 ......... 4.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................127 ......... 3.3
Extent of staff training* .......................................87 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................131 ......... 2.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...135 ....... 0.14
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................135 ......... 3.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................114 ..... 431.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................94 ....... 94.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............122 ......... 2.3
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................85 ....... 15.0
Accessibility of digital content* .........................117 ......... 3.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................112 ....... 0.47
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 137 1,431.45
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....139 ....... 0.08

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 140 ......... 2.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .139 ......... 2.8
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....137 ......... 3.1
Internet access in schools* ..............................126 ......... 2.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................139 ......... 2.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................106 ....... 0.05

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................110 ......... 3.1
Quality of math & science education* ...............110 ......... 3.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 111 ....... 58.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................96 ....... 87.4

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 265

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Sweden
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 3 ..5.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 1 .....5.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................5 ....5.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 5 .....5.7
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 11 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................3 ....6.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 4 .....6.8
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 7 .....6.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 10 .....5.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................1 ....6.0
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 3 .....6.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 4 .....5.9
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 8 .....5.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................4 ....5.8

Sweden

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 3 .....5.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 10 .....5.6

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................5 ......... 5.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................8 ......... 5.5
Judicial independence* ........................................9 ......... 6.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......5 ......... 5.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......5 ......... 5.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................12 ......... 5.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............7 .......... 24
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................18 .......... 30
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................13 ........ 314

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................1 ......... 6.7
Venture capital availability* ...................................5 ......... 4.4
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................118 ....... 53.0
No. days to start a business ..............................72 .......... 16
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*.............................22 ......... 5.5
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........18 ....... 73.8
Quality of management schools* ........................11 ......... 5.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............12 ......... 4.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................46 ..... 118.6
Individuals using Internet, %.................................4 ....... 91.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .................4 ....... 91.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................5 ....... 90.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......13 ....... 31.8
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............4 ....... 91.5
Use of virtual social networks* .............................5 ......... 6.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................1 ......... 6.3
Capacity for innovation* .......................................5 ......... 5.5
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................1 ..... 297.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................6 ......... 6.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................11 ......... 5.8
Extent of staff training* .........................................6 ......... 5.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................12 ......... 5.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....16 ....... 0.84
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................13 ......... 5.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................5 16,291.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................51 ....... 99.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................4 ..... 244.4
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................14 .. 1,451.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................14 ......... 6.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................14 ....... 0.08
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..44 ..... 26.70
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....4 ......... 5.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........3 ..... 105.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....4 ......... 5.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............7 ....... 44.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......10 ......... 5.8
Internet access in schools* ................................11 ......... 6.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................11 ......... 5.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................15 ....... 0.68

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................12 ......... 5.3
Quality of math & science education* .................36 ......... 4.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..39 ....... 99.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

266 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Switzerland
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 6 ..5.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 5 .....5.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................7 ....5.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 8 .....5.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 9 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................8 ....6.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 8 .....6.7
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 68 .....5.3
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 4 .....6.1

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ..........................................................8 ....5.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 10 .....6.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................... 1 .....6.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 31 .....4.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................9 ....5.4

Switzerland

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 5 .....5.8
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 24 .....5.1

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................16 ......... 4.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................13 ......... 5.4
Judicial independence* ........................................6 ......... 6.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ......4 ......... 5.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ......2 ......... 5.6
Intellectual property protection* ............................4 ......... 6.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........10 .......... 25
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................28 .......... 32
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................25 ........ 390

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................2 ......... 6.6
Venture capital availability* .................................19 ......... 3.6
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................37 ....... 30.2
No. days to start a business ..............................77 .......... 18
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................20 ......... 5.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........47 ....... 54.8
Quality of management schools* ..........................3 ......... 6.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............22 ......... 4.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................29 ..... 131.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................10 ....... 85.2
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............11 ....... 86.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................9 ....... 85.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .........1 ....... 40.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........34 ....... 35.6
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................14 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ........................3 ......... 6.2
Capacity for innovation* .......................................2 ......... 5.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ................2 ..... 284.7
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................2 ......... 6.3
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................12 ......... 5.8
Extent of staff training* .........................................1 ......... 5.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................37 ......... 4.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....32 ....... 0.67
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................27 ......... 5.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................20 .. 8,504.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................5 ..... 167.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ......................5 .. 2,137.5
Accessibility of digital content* .............................4 ......... 6.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................120 ....... 0.53
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..36 ..... 23.41
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..18 ......... 5.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........6 ....... 62.9
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...19 ......... 5.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...............4 ....... 47.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........4 ......... 5.9
Internet access in schools* ..................................6 ......... 6.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................21 ......... 5.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................43 ....... 0.34

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .............................1 ......... 6.0
Quality of math & science education* ...................5 ......... 5.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..52 ....... 95.4
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 267

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Taiwan, China
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 10 ..5.5

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 11 .....5.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................24 ....5.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 33 .....4.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 4 .....5.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................17 ....5.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 22 .....6.0
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 54 .....5.5
5th pillar: Skills..................................................................... 7 .....5.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................15 ....5.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 20 .....5.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 13 .....5.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 12 .....5.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................6 ....5.7

Taiwan, China

9th pillar: Economic impacts................................................ 7 .....5.5
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 6 .....5.8

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................72 ......... 3.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................18 ......... 5.2
Judicial independence* ......................................42 ......... 4.6
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....40 ......... 4.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....36 ......... 4.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................22 ......... 5.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........22 .......... 37
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............129 .......... 45
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................65 ........ 510

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................40 ......... 5.6
Venture capital availability* ...................................9 ......... 4.1
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................59 ....... 34.8
No. days to start a business ..............................49 .......... 10
No. procedures to start a business ....................10 ............ 3
Intensity of local competition*...............................3 ......... 6.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........7 ....... 83.4
Quality of management schools* ........................29 ......... 5.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................9 ......... 4.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................41 ..... 124.1
Individuals using Internet, %...............................28 ....... 72.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .................9 ....... 87.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................14 ....... 82.5
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......27 ....... 23.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........22 ....... 42.7
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................37 ......... 5.9

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................19 ......... 5.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................15 ......... 4.7
PCT patents, applications/million pop. .............n/a ......... n/a
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................9 ......... 6.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................5 ......... 6.0
Extent of staff training* .......................................31 ......... 4.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................11 ......... 5.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)....n/a ......... n/a
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................7 ......... 5.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................15 .. 9,221.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................41 ....... 34.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................26 ..... 492.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................12 ......... 6.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................119 ....... 0.53
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..14 ..... 18.03
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....5 ......... 5.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. ......n/a ......... n/a
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...10 ......... 5.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........9 ......... 5.8
Internet access in schools* ..................................9 ......... 6.1
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................9 ......... 5.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)........................n/a ......... n/a

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................24 ......... 4.8
Quality of math & science education* ...................6 ......... 5.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..38 ..... 100.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................47 ....... 98.0

268 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Tajikistan
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............112 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 114 .....3.2

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................80 ....3.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 47 .....4.1
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 121 .....3.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................118 ....3.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 126 .....2.3
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 131 .....2.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 64 .....4.9

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................103 ....3.1
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 107 .....2.2
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 87 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 87 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................102 ....3.0

Tajikistan

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 111 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 98 .....3.3

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................39 ......... 4.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................86 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................64 ......... 3.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....53 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....43 ......... 4.1
Intellectual property protection* ..........................74 ......... 3.5
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................48 .......... 35
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................47 ........ 430

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................84 ......... 4.7
Venture capital availability* .................................50 ......... 2.9
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................141 ....... 84.5
No. days to start a business ..............................95 .......... 24
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*...........................107 ......... 4.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........94 ....... 18.7
Quality of management schools* ......................119 ......... 3.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............26 ......... 4.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................97 ....... 90.6
Individuals using Internet, %.............................111 ....... 13.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............130 ......... 2.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................137 ......... 0.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....125 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop.........n/a ......... n/a
Use of virtual social networks* .........................132 ......... 4.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................95 ......... 4.4
Capacity for innovation* .....................................51 ......... 3.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................119 ......... 4.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................96 ......... 4.0
Extent of staff training* .......................................79 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................49 ......... 4.3
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...123 ....... 0.24
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................45 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................75 .. 2,377.4
Mobile network coverage, % pop .....................n/a ......... n/a
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............138 ......... 0.5
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................135 ......... 0.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................89 ......... 4.7

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................66 ....... 0.27
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 135 ... 868.84
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....140 ....... 0.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 109 ......... 3.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .122 ......... 3.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......62 ......... 4.3
Internet access in schools* ................................94 ......... 3.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................59 ......... 4.4
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................67 ......... 3.7
Quality of math & science education* .................91 ......... 3.7
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..77 ....... 88.5
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................8 ....... 99.7

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 269

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Tanzania
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............127 ..2.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 123 .....2.9

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................108 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 76 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 128 .....3.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................135 ....2.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 124 .....2.4
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 130 .....2.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 132 .....3.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................120 ....2.9
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 127 .....1.7
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 102 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 99 .....3.7

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................127 ....2.6

Tanzania

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 136 .....2.3
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 119 .....2.9

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................65 ......... 3.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................109 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ......................................77 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....68 ......... 3.7
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....70 ......... 3.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................97 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................54 ........ 462

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................122 ......... 4.1
Venture capital availability* .................................80 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................100 ....... 45.3
No. days to start a business ..............................99 .......... 26
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*...........................109 ......... 4.2
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......137 ......... 2.1
Quality of management schools* ......................118 ......... 3.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............73 ......... 3.5

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............127 ....... 55.5
Individuals using Internet, %.............................113 ....... 12.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............123 ......... 4.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................106 ......... 4.5
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....136 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........107 ......... 1.2
Use of virtual social networks* .........................133 ......... 4.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................129 ......... 3.9
Capacity for innovation* .....................................71 ......... 3.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............116 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................121 ......... 4.2
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................126 ......... 3.4
Extent of staff training* .......................................77 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................88 ......... 3.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...101 ....... 0.35
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................73 ......... 4.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................128 ..... 106.3
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................108 ....... 85.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............135 ......... 0.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................137 ......... 0.5
Accessibility of digital content* .........................133 ......... 3.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................98 ....... 0.39
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 124 ..... 82.37
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....123 ....... 1.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 112 ......... 3.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......86 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .113 ......... 3.5
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........107 ......... 2.6

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....112 ......... 3.6
Internet access in schools* ..............................120 ......... 2.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................103 ......... 3.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................80 ......... 3.5
Quality of math & science education* ...............122 ......... 2.8
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 135 ....... 29.9
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................111 ....... 73.2

270 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Thailand
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 74 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 77 .....3.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................60 ....4.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 81 .....3.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 52 .....4.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................63 ....4.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 71 .....3.9
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 45 .....5.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 76 .....4.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................83 ....3.4
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 88 .....2.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 63 .....3.5
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 86 .....3.8

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................88 ....3.3

Thailand

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 108 .....2.8
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 67 .....3.8

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................105 ......... 3.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................80 ......... 3.8
Judicial independence* ......................................59 ......... 4.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....65 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....73 ......... 3.6
Intellectual property protection* ........................101 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........72 .......... 72
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................49 ........ 440

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................73 ......... 4.9
Venture capital availability* .................................49 ......... 2.9
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................72 ....... 37.6
No. days to start a business ............................106 .......... 29
No. procedures to start a business ....................20 ............ 4
Intensity of local competition*.............................54 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........54 ....... 47.7
Quality of management schools* ........................62 ......... 4.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............98 ......... 3.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................58 ..... 111.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................95 ....... 23.7
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............81 ....... 24.7
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................87 ....... 13.4
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......75 ......... 5.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........119 ......... 0.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................72 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................54 ......... 5.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................79 ......... 3.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............69 ......... 1.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................93 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................53 ......... 4.8
Extent of staff training* .......................................49 ......... 4.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................104 ......... 3.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....64 ....... 0.51
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................95 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................78 .. 2,159.8
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................53 ....... 24.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................83 ....... 16.6
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................90 ......... 4.7

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................16 ....... 0.09
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..83 ..... 36.79
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......78 ....... 1.82

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..85 ......... 4.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......64 ......... 0.2
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...88 ......... 3.9
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............97 ....... 10.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....101 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ................................63 ......... 4.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................74 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................46 ....... 0.32

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................78 ......... 3.5
Quality of math & science education* .................61 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..93 ....... 79.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................69 ....... 93.5

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 271

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Timor-Leste
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............134 ..2.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 132 .....2.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................131 ....3.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 125 .....3.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 130 .....3.4

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................134 ....2.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 122 .....2.5
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 123 .....2.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 133 .....2.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................136 ....2.5
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 124 .....1.8
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 139 .....2.6
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 129 .....3.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................131 ....2.5

Timor-Leste

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 132 .....2.4
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 128 .....2.6

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................57 ......... 3.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................127 ......... 2.9
Judicial independence* ......................................92 ......... 3.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....96 ......... 3.3
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....83 ......... 3.4
Intellectual property protection* ........................108 ......... 2.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............142 .......... 51
No. days to enforce a contract ........................134 ..... 1,285

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................139 ......... 3.5
Venture capital availability* ...............................103 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................7 ....... 15.1
No. days to start a business ............................138 .......... 94
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*...........................141 ......... 3.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........98 ....... 16.7
Quality of management schools* ......................143 ......... 2.3
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............92 ......... 3.3

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............128 ....... 53.2
Individuals using Internet, %.............................143 ......... 0.9
Households w/ personal computer, % ..............n/a ......... n/a
Households w/ Internet access, % ...................n/a ......... n/a
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....130 ......... 0.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........126 ......... 0.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................136 ......... 4.1

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................140 ......... 3.7
Capacity for innovation* ...................................125 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................135 ......... 3.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................135 ......... 3.0
Extent of staff training* .....................................127 ......... 3.1

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................107 ......... 3.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...125 ....... 0.22
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................114 ......... 3.6

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................127 ..... 112.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................127 ....... 69.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................71 ....... 17.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................108 ......... 2.6
Accessibility of digital content* .........................132 ......... 3.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................107 ....... 0.43
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 133 ... 175.44
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) .....n/a ......... n/a

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 138 ......... 3.2
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .131 ......... 3.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....122 ......... 3.4
Internet access in schools* ..............................128 ......... 2.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................105 ......... 3.6
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................129 ......... 2.7
Quality of math & science education* ...............136 ......... 2.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 112 ....... 56.3
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................125 ....... 58.3

272 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Trinidad and Tobago
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 72 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 60 .....4.0

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................93 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 91 .....3.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 93 .....3.9

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................45 ....5.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 53 .....4.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 58 .....5.4
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 39 .....5.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................67 ....3.7
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 61 .....3.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 97 .....3.2
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 70 .....4.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................95 ....3.1

Trinidad and Tobago

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 100 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 91 .....3.4

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................73 ......... 3.5
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................112 ......... 3.2
Judicial independence* ......................................47 ......... 4.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....83 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....94 ......... 3.3
Intellectual property protection* ..........................81 ......... 3.4
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............116 .......... 42
No. days to enforce a contract ........................137 ..... 1,340

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................63 ......... 5.1
Venture capital availability* .................................87 ......... 2.4
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................35 ....... 29.1
No. days to start a business ............................126 .......... 41
No. procedures to start a business ....................88 ............ 8
Intensity of local competition*.............................88 ......... 4.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......109 ....... 11.5
Quality of management schools* ........................36 ......... 4.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............128 ......... 2.8

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................25 ..... 135.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................49 ....... 55.2
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............53 ....... 53.1
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................79 ....... 18.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......50 ....... 11.5
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........108 ......... 1.2
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................65 ......... 5.5

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................82 ......... 4.6
Capacity for innovation* ...................................124 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............61 ......... 1.4
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................67 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................93 ......... 4.1
Extent of staff training* .......................................71 ......... 3.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................87 ......... 3.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....72 ....... 0.48
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................70 ......... 4.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................37 .. 5,788.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................63 ....... 19.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................53 ....... 85.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................61 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................78 ....... 0.32
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..19 ..... 19.16
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....123 ....... 1.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 119 ......... 3.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......54 ......... 0.4
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .107 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............60 ....... 22.8

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....102 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ................................55 ......... 4.5
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................101 ......... 3.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................40 ......... 4.2
Quality of math & science education* .................35 ......... 4.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..68 ....... 89.9
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................40 ....... 98.8

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 273

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Turkey
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 45 ..4.2

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 52 .....4.1

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................46 ....4.3
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 54 .....4.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 43 .....4.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................36 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 48 .....4.6
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 4 .....6.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 81 .....4.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................62 ....3.8
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 68 .....3.5
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 48 .....3.7
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 60 .....4.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................64 ....3.5

Turkey

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 68 .....3.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 63 .....3.8

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................22 ......... 4.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................59 ......... 4.2
Judicial independence* ......................................83 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....61 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....56 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................86 ......... 3.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........57 .......... 62
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................42 ........ 420

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................45 ......... 5.4
Venture capital availability* .................................73 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................84 ....... 41.2
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................16 ......... 5.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........45 ....... 55.4
Quality of management schools* ........................97 ......... 3.8
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............32 ......... 4.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................98 ....... 88.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................69 ....... 42.1
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............58 ....... 48.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................56 ....... 42.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......56 ....... 10.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........79 ......... 8.8
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................71 ......... 5.4

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................39 ......... 5.3
Capacity for innovation* .....................................48 ......... 3.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............41 ......... 6.5
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................74 ......... 4.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................56 ......... 4.7
Extent of staff training* .......................................65 ......... 4.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................53 ......... 4.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....76 ....... 0.46
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................64 ......... 4.5

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................65 .. 2,903.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................42 ....... 33.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................45 ..... 142.5
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................62 ......... 5.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................36 ....... 0.17
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..27 ..... 20.80
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..61 ......... 4.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......45 ......... 0.9
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...65 ......... 4.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............63 ....... 22.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......40 ......... 4.8
Internet access in schools* ................................68 ......... 4.3
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................34 ......... 4.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................106 ....... 0.05

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................82 ......... 3.5
Quality of math & science education* ...............100 ......... 3.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..88 ....... 82.1
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................83 ....... 90.8

274 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Uganda
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............110 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 110 .....3.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................88 ....3.7
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 60 .....3.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 115 .....3.6

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................104 ....3.8
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 106 .....2.9
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 75 .....5.1
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 125 .....3.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................117 ....2.9
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 131 .....1.6
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 106 .....3.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 84 .....3.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................115 ....2.9

Uganda

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 121 .....2.6
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 111 .....3.1

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................45 ......... 4.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................97 ......... 3.6
Judicial independence* ......................................80 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....49 ......... 4.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....59 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................84 ......... 3.3
Software piracy rate, % software installed .........n/a ......... n/a
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................60 ........ 490

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................104 ......... 4.5
Venture capital availability* .................................74 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................70 ....... 37.1
No. days to start a business ............................112 .......... 33
No. procedures to start a business ..................139 .......... 15
Intensity of local competition*.............................77 ......... 4.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......115 ......... 9.1
Quality of management schools* ........................89 ......... 3.9
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............68 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............131 ....... 48.4
Individuals using Internet, %.............................112 ....... 13.0
Households w/ personal computer, % .............140 ......... 1.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................138 ......... 0.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....122 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........97 ......... 2.8
Use of virtual social networks* .........................130 ......... 4.3

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................103 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* ...................................102 ......... 2.8
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............121 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................94 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................115 ......... 3.7
Extent of staff training* .....................................100 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................52 ......... 4.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...117 ....... 0.29
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................50 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................134 ....... 75.5
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............112 ......... 4.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................117 ......... 1.5
Accessibility of digital content* .........................120 ......... 3.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................64 ....... 0.26
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..91 ..... 38.88
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..75 ......... 4.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...81 ......... 4.0
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........106 ......... 4.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....109 ......... 3.7
Internet access in schools* ..............................118 ......... 2.9
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................69 ......... 4.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................96 ....... 0.08

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................69 ......... 3.7
Quality of math & science education* ...............109 ......... 3.4
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 136 ....... 28.1
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................110 ....... 73.2

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 275

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Ukraine
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 73 ..3.9

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 75 .....3.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................105 ....3.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 124 .....3.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 78 .....4.1

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................29 ....5.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 74 .....3.8
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 2 .....6.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 35 .....5.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................95 ....3.3
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 74 .....3.2
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 84 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 121 .....3.3

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................81 ....3.3

Ukraine

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 74 .....3.2
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 87 .....3.4

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................132 ......... 2.3
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................101 ......... 3.5
Judicial independence* ....................................124 ......... 2.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..141 ......... 2.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..139 ......... 2.4
Intellectual property protection* ........................120 ......... 2.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........94 .......... 84
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................18 .......... 30
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................17 ........ 343

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................80 ......... 4.8
Venture capital availability* ...............................106 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................123 ....... 55.4
No. days to start a business ..............................93 .......... 22
No. procedures to start a business ....................74 ............ 7
Intensity of local competition*...........................104 ......... 4.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........9 ....... 81.7
Quality of management schools* ......................117 ......... 3.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............97 ......... 3.2

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................44 ..... 123.0
Individuals using Internet, %...............................89 ....... 30.6
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............80 ....... 25.2
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................75 ....... 22.2
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......69 ......... 7.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........87 ......... 4.4
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................92 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................69 ......... 4.8
Capacity for innovation* .....................................58 ......... 3.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............51 ......... 2.8
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................80 ......... 4.8
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................68 ......... 4.6
Extent of staff training* .....................................106 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................130 ......... 2.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....87 ....... 0.42
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................122 ......... 3.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................57 .. 3,767.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................28 ....... 99.9
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................85 ......... 9.8
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................81 ....... 17.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................44 ......... 5.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .........................2 ....... 0.01
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ....6 ..... 15.10
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......71 ....... 1.86

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 103 ......... 3.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......49 ......... 0.6
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .104 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............38 ....... 32.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......91 ......... 3.9
Internet access in schools* ................................62 ......... 4.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................116 ......... 3.5
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................76 ....... 0.16

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................70 ......... 3.6
Quality of math & science education* .................34 ......... 4.6
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..55 ....... 94.0
Adult literacy rate, % ............................................5 ....... 99.7

276 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

United Arab Emirates
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 25 ..5.1

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 30 .....4.8

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................19 ....5.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 26 .....4.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 17 .....5.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................40 ....5.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 30 .....5.5
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 89 .....4.7
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 25 .....5.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................23 ....5.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 36 .....4.9
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 28 .....4.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 2 .....6.0

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................19 ....4.9

United Arab Emirates

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 28 .....4.1
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 7 .....5.8

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................21 ......... 4.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................9 ......... 5.5
Judicial independence* ......................................23 ......... 5.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....22 ......... 4.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....25 ......... 4.5
Intellectual property protection* ..........................23 ......... 5.2
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........22 .......... 37
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............137 .......... 49
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................72 ........ 524

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................23 ......... 6.2
Venture capital availability* ...................................8 ......... 4.1
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................6 ....... 14.9
No. days to start a business ..............................34 ............ 8
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................15 ......... 5.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........84 ....... 25.2
Quality of management schools* ........................27 ......... 5.0
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .................3 ......... 5.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................16 ..... 148.6
Individuals using Internet, %...............................34 ....... 70.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............28 ....... 76.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................31 ....... 67.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......52 ....... 11.0
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........49 ....... 21.7
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................21 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................12 ......... 6.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................27 ......... 4.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............46 ......... 4.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................17 ......... 5.9
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................21 ......... 5.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................17 ......... 4.9

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .......................3 ......... 5.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......9 ....... 0.86
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*..........................1 ......... 6.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................9 13,053.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................49 ....... 27.6
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................40 ..... 180.3
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................23 ......... 6.1

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................17 ....... 0.09
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..99 ..... 42.85
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....123 ....... 1.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..11 ......... 5.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......41 ......... 1.1
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...11 ......... 5.3
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............30 ....... 36.1

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ........6 ......... 5.9
Internet access in schools* ................................22 ......... 5.8
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...................................3 ......... 5.9
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................11 ....... 0.74

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................17 ......... 5.0
Quality of math & science education* .................17 ......... 5.2
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..60 ....... 92.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................86 ....... 90.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 277

3: Country/Economy Profiles

United Kingdom
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 7 ..5.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 10 .....5.5

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex................................................6 ....5.5
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................... 7 .....5.6
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ................. 8 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................10 ....6.0
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 13 .....6.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 35 .....5.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 15 .....5.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................11 ....5.6
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................... 9 .....6.2
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 15 .....5.1
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................... 9 .....5.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .........................................................8 ....5.5

United Kingdom

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 14 .....5.1
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................... 4 .....5.9

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ....................8 ......... 5.2
Laws relating to ICTs* ..........................................5 ......... 5.6
Judicial independence* ......................................11 ......... 6.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....11 ......... 5.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....11 ......... 5.1
Intellectual property protection* ............................6 ......... 5.9
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........12 .......... 26
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................12 .......... 28
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................32 ........ 399

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .........................6 ......... 6.5
Venture capital availability* .................................16 ......... 3.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................64 ....... 35.5
No. days to start a business ..............................62 .......... 13
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*...............................5 ......... 6.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........38 ....... 59.7
Quality of management schools* ..........................1 ......... 6.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............45 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................31 ..... 130.8
Individuals using Internet, %...............................14 ....... 82.0
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............14 ....... 84.6
Households w/ Internet access, % ......................8 ....... 85.1
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......11 ....... 32.7
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........17 ....... 52.6
Use of virtual social networks* .............................2 ......... 6.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................23 ......... 5.7
Capacity for innovation* .....................................12 ......... 5.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............18 ....... 87.3
Business-to-business Internet use* ......................4 ......... 6.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................1 ......... 6.3
Extent of staff training* .......................................14 ......... 5.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................25 ......... 4.8
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......4 ....... 0.97
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................28 ......... 5.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................36 .. 6,075.7
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................41 ....... 99.7
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..................6 ..... 166.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................11 .. 1,592.5
Accessibility of digital content* .............................1 ......... 6.5

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................91 ....... 0.37
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..18 ..... 19.05
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......71 ....... 1.86

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ....2 ......... 5.9
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......17 ....... 25.7
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....1 ......... 5.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............13 ....... 42.5

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......17 ......... 5.6
Internet access in schools* ..................................8 ......... 6.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................17 ......... 5.2
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................5 ....... 0.92

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................27 ......... 4.7
Quality of math & science education* .................42 ......... 4.5
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..20 ..... 105.3
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

278 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

United States
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ................ 9 ..5.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ........................ 8 .....5.6

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................16 ....5.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 22 .....4.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 13 .....5.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...................................................4 ....6.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................... 7 .....6.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 15 .....6.3
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 20 .....5.6

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................13 ....5.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 18 .....5.7
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 10 .....5.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 11 .....5.5

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................10 ....5.4

United States

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 11 .....5.3
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 11 .....5.5

High-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................56 ......... 3.8
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................20 ......... 5.2
Judicial independence* ......................................38 ......... 4.9
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....35 ......... 4.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....37 ......... 4.2
Intellectual property protection* ..........................29 ......... 5.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ............1 .......... 19
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................28 .......... 32
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................20 ........ 370

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................14 ......... 6.3
Venture capital availability* .................................10 ......... 4.1
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................105 ....... 46.7
No. days to start a business ..............................16 ............ 6
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................18 ......... 5.6
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %..........2 ....... 94.8
Quality of management schools* ........................12 ......... 5.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............15 ......... 4.4

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................95 ....... 92.7
Individuals using Internet, %...............................20 ....... 77.9
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............29 ....... 75.5
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................27 ....... 71.6
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......18 ....... 27.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop............9 ....... 74.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................16 ......... 6.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................14 ......... 5.9
Capacity for innovation* .......................................7 ......... 5.2
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............12 ..... 134.4
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................35 ......... 5.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ....................3 ......... 6.0
Extent of staff training* .......................................15 ......... 5.0

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................34 ......... 4.5
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).......1 ....... 1.00
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................32 ......... 5.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ........................8 14,020.0
Mobile network coverage, % pop ......................38 ....... 99.8
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................34 ....... 47.2
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................12 .. 1,563.2
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................25 ......... 6.0

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................68 ....... 0.27
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..22 ..... 19.95
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..16 ......... 5.4
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .........9 ....... 48.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .....6 ......... 5.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............29 ....... 36.3

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......30 ......... 5.2
Internet access in schools* ................................24 ......... 5.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................41 ......... 4.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best)...........................5 ....... 0.92

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................28 ......... 4.7
Quality of math & science education* .................47 ......... 4.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..50 ....... 96.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................15 ....... 99.0

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 279

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Uruguay
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 52 ..4.2

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 44 .....4.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................50 ....4.2
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 58 .....3.9
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 47 .....4.5

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................70 ....4.7
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 49 .....4.5
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 80 .....4.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 85 .....4.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................54 ....3.9
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 51 .....4.2
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 72 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 55 .....4.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................46 ....3.8

Uruguay

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 53 .....3.4
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 45 .....4.3

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................81 ......... 3.4
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................71 ......... 4.0
Judicial independence* ......................................29 ......... 5.2
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....63 ......... 3.8
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....46 ......... 4.0
Intellectual property protection* ..........................49 ......... 4.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........67 .......... 68
No. procedures to enforce a contract ..............110 .......... 41
No. days to enforce a contract ........................109 ........ 725

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................82 ......... 4.8
Venture capital availability* .................................77 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................87 ....... 42.0
No. days to start a business ..............................25 ............ 7
No. procedures to start a business ....................30 ............ 5
Intensity of local competition*.............................99 ......... 4.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........31 ....... 63.2
Quality of management schools* ........................54 ......... 4.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............70 ......... 3.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................21 ..... 140.8
Individuals using Internet, %...............................53 ....... 51.4
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............54 ....... 52.8
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................69 ....... 33.3
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......45 ....... 13.5
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........51 ....... 21.5
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................56 ......... 5.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................83 ......... 4.6
Capacity for innovation* .....................................74 ......... 3.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............67 ......... 1.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................69 ......... 5.0
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................66 ......... 4.6
Extent of staff training* .......................................86 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................75 ......... 3.9
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....52 ....... 0.55
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................69 ......... 4.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................71 .. 2,647.9
Mobile network coverage, % pop ........................1 ..... 100.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................44 ....... 32.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................55 ....... 70.4
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................35 ......... 5.7

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................94 ....... 0.37
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..30 ..... 22.11
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....132 ....... 0.75

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..42 ......... 4.8
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...36 ......... 4.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............67 ....... 21.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......47 ......... 4.7
Internet access in schools* ................................15 ......... 6.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................64 ......... 4.3
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................70 ....... 0.18

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................107 ......... 3.1
Quality of math & science education* ...............118 ......... 3.0
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..65 ....... 90.4
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................46 ....... 98.1

280 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Venezuela
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............108 ..3.3

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 107 .....3.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................140 ....2.8
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 142 .....2.4
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 134 .....3.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................81 ....4.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ........................ 85 .....3.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 51 .....5.6
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 96 .....4.3

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................105 ....3.1
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 80 .....3.0
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 120 .....3.0
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 126 .....3.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................104 ....3.0

Venezuela

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 95 .....2.9
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 106 .....3.1

Upper-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................144 ......... 1.7
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................104 ......... 3.4
Judicial independence* ....................................144 ......... 1.3
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..144 ......... 1.9
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..144 ......... 1.7
Intellectual property protection* ........................143 ......... 1.7
Software piracy rate, % software installed ........100 .......... 88
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................18 .......... 30
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................65 ........ 510

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................103 ......... 4.5
Venture capital availability* ...............................109 ......... 2.2
Total tax rate, % profits ....................................126 ....... 62.7
No. days to start a business ............................142 ........ 144
No. procedures to start a business ..................143 .......... 17
Intensity of local competition*...........................143 ......... 3.3
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........13 ....... 78.1
Quality of management schools* ........................72 ......... 4.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............144 ......... 2.0

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................88 ....... 97.8
Individuals using Internet, %...............................71 ....... 40.2
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............92 ....... 17.3
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................90 ....... 11.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......71 ......... 6.2
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........62 ....... 16.1
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................44 ......... 5.8

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................117 ......... 4.1
Capacity for innovation* ...................................134 ......... 2.3
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............86 ......... 0.2
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................109 ......... 4.4
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................85 ......... 4.3
Extent of staff training* .....................................104 ......... 3.6

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................136 ......... 2.7
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....72 ....... 0.48
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................134 ......... 3.1

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................52 .. 4,349.2
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................101 ....... 90.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................92 ......... 8.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ....................95 ......... 8.1
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................98 ......... 4.4

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................115 ....... 0.51
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..15 ..... 18.27
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ........1 ....... 2.00

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 118 ......... 3.7
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......90 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .105 ......... 3.6
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............57 ....... 23.9

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....118 ......... 3.5
Internet access in schools* ..............................101 ......... 3.4
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................133 ......... 3.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................54 ....... 0.26

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................122 ......... 2.8
Quality of math & science education* ...............120 ......... 2.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..86 ....... 83.5
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................60 ....... 95.5

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 281

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Vietnam
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 .............. 84 ..3.7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) ...................... 83 .....3.7

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................97 ....3.6
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 85 .....3.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 108 .....3.7

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................79 ....4.4
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 114 .....2.8
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 38 .....5.9
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 79 .....4.7

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ........................................................73 ....3.5
6th pillar: Individual usage.................................................. 78 .....3.1
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 88 .....3.3
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 62 .....4.2

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .......................................................75 ....3.4

Vietnam

9th pillar: Economic impacts.............................................. 89 .....3.0
10th pillar: Social impacts .................................................. 64 .....3.8

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................49 ......... 3.9
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................92 ......... 3.7
Judicial independence* ......................................87 ......... 3.4
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....74 ......... 3.6
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....74 ......... 3.6
Intellectual property protection* ........................123 ......... 2.6
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........88 .......... 81
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................43 .......... 34
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................33 ........ 400

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................137 ......... 3.6
Venture capital availability* .................................96 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................54 ....... 34.5
No. days to start a business ............................114 .......... 34
No. procedures to start a business ..................114 .......... 10
Intensity of local competition*.............................44 ......... 5.1
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %........87 ....... 22.3
Quality of management schools* ......................125 ......... 3.2
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............39 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ................19 ..... 143.4
Individuals using Internet, %...............................80 ....... 35.1
Households w/ personal computer, % ...............93 ....... 16.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ....................88 ....... 12.5
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .......79 ......... 4.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........58 ....... 18.0
Use of virtual social networks* .........................116 ......... 4.7

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................126 ......... 4.0
Capacity for innovation* .....................................78 ......... 3.0
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............89 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................24 ......... 5.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................34 ......... 5.2
Extent of staff training* .....................................116 ......... 3.3

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................66 ......... 4.1
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best).....87 ....... 0.42
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................41 ......... 4.8

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ......................97 ..... 967.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................124 ....... 70.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user................84 ....... 10.0
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................101 ......... 4.7
Accessibility of digital content* ...........................49 ......... 5.3

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................53 ....... 0.21
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..48 ..... 28.01
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......68 ....... 1.87

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..37 ......... 5.0
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......88 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...56 ......... 4.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............99 ......... 7.4

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......55 ......... 4.6
Internet access in schools* ................................41 ......... 5.0
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................86 ......... 4.0
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).........................91 ....... 0.11

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................72 ......... 3.6
Quality of math & science education* .................58 ......... 4.1
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % ..94 ....... 77.2
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................71 ....... 93.2

282 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Yemen
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............139 ..2.6

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 141 .....2.4

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................138 ....2.9
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 140 .....2.5
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 133 .....3.3

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................117 ....3.2
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 123 .....2.4
4th pillar: Affordability ........................................................ 88 .....4.8
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 138 .....2.5

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................142 ....2.3
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 135 .....1.6
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 137 .....2.7
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 141 .....2.6

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................143 ....2.1

Yemen

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 142 .....2.2
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 143 .....2.0

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ................123 ......... 2.6
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................141 ......... 2.2
Judicial independence* ....................................139 ......... 2.0
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ..142 ......... 2.1
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..130 ......... 2.6
Intellectual property protection* ........................139 ......... 2.0
Software piracy rate, % software installed ........102 .......... 89
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................56 .......... 36
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................81 ........ 569

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................141 ......... 3.5
Venture capital availability* .................................98 ......... 2.3
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................45 ....... 32.9
No. days to start a business ............................123 .......... 40
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................80 ......... 4.7
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......114 ....... 10.2
Quality of management schools* ......................142 ......... 2.4
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............143 ......... 2.1

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............132 ....... 47.0
Individuals using Internet, %.............................108 ....... 14.9
Households w/ personal computer, % .............126 ......... 4.0
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................113 ......... 2.9
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....109 ......... 0.4
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........120 ......... 0.1
Use of virtual social networks* .........................138 ......... 4.0

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ....................109 ......... 4.3
Capacity for innovation* ...................................142 ......... 1.9
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............108 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................88 ......... 4.7
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................130 ......... 3.2
Extent of staff training* .....................................121 ......... 3.2

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................143 ......... 2.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...131 ....... 0.18
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*......................124 ......... 3.4

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................118 ..... 289.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................112 ....... 84.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............134 ......... 1.1
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................140 ......... 0.4
Accessibility of digital content* .........................121 ......... 3.8

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................50 ....... 0.20
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..56 ..... 29.66
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ....137 ....... 0.46

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 143 ......... 2.5
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .143 ......... 2.7
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce.............85 ....... 17.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....143 ......... 2.5
Internet access in schools* ..............................140 ......... 1.7
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................138 ......... 2.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................124 ....... 0.00

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* .........................144 ......... 1.8
Quality of math & science education* ...............144 ......... 1.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 121 ....... 45.8
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................120 ....... 63.9

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 283

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Zambia
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............115 ..3.2

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 109 .....3.3

1. Political and
regulatory environment
7
6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex..............................................61 ....4.0
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................... 64 .....3.8
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............... 65 .....4.2

4
9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex ...............................................129 ....2.9
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 133 .....2.0
4th pillar: Affordability ...................................................... 127 .....2.7
5th pillar: Skills................................................................. 104 .....3.8

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1
8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................109 ....3.0
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 122 .....1.8
7th pillar: Business usage .................................................. 80 .....3.4
8th pillar: Government usage ............................................. 79 .....3.9

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................112 ....2.9

Zambia

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 115 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 110 .....3.1

Lower-middle-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................43 ......... 4.0
Laws relating to ICTs* ........................................76 ......... 3.9
Judicial independence* ......................................79 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....39 ......... 4.4
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ....55 ......... 3.9
Intellectual property protection* ..........................59 ......... 3.8
Software piracy rate, % software installed ..........90 .......... 82
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................48 .......... 35
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................57 ........ 471

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .......................92 ......... 4.6
Venture capital availability* .................................78 ......... 2.5
Total tax rate, % profits ........................................8 ....... 15.2
No. days to start a business ..............................75 .......... 17
No. procedures to start a business ....................48 ............ 6
Intensity of local competition*.............................61 ......... 5.0
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......135 ......... 2.4
Quality of management schools* ........................75 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* ...............41 ......... 3.9

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............123 ....... 60.6
Individuals using Internet, %.............................116 ....... 11.5
Households w/ personal computer, % .............133 ......... 2.4
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................121 ......... 2.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....129 ......... 0.1
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop........117 ......... 0.2
Use of virtual social networks* ...........................95 ......... 5.2

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................88 ......... 4.5
Capacity for innovation* .....................................76 ......... 3.1
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ............123 ......... 0.0
Business-to-business Internet use* ....................60 ......... 5.1
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ..................98 ......... 4.0
Extent of staff training* .....................................108 ......... 3.5

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* .....................54 ......... 4.2
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...110 ....... 0.31
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................51 ......... 4.7

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................100 ..... 810.1
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................129 ....... 62.0
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............126 ......... 1.9
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................116 ......... 1.6
Accessibility of digital content* .........................118 ......... 3.9

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .....................108 ....... 0.43
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month 112 ..... 64.61
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......90 ....... 1.64

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* ..81 ......... 4.3
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......95 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* ...69 ......... 4.2
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce...........103 ......... 6.0

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ......97 ......... 3.8
Internet access in schools* ..............................107 ......... 3.2
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* .................................78 ......... 4.1
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................39 ......... 4.2
Quality of math & science education* .................77 ......... 3.9
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 122 ....... 45.6
Adult literacy rate, % ........................................114 ....... 71.2

284 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

3: Country/Economy Profiles

Zimbabwe
Rank Score
(out of 144) (1–7)

1. Political and
regulatory environment

Networked Readiness Index 2013 ............116 ..3.2

7

10. Social
impacts

Networked Readiness Index 2012 (out of 142) .................... 124 .....2.9

6

2. Business and innovation
environment

5

A. Environment subindex............................................132 ....3.1
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ................. 120 .....3.0
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ............. 135 .....3.2

4

9. Economic
impacts

2

B. Readiness subindex .................................................87 ....4.3
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content ...................... 129 .....2.2
4th pillar: Affordability .......................................................... 9 .....6.5
5th pillar: Skills................................................................... 98 .....4.2

3. Infrastructure and
digital content

3

1

8. Government
usage

4. Affordability

C. Usage subindex ......................................................125 ....2.7
6th pillar: Individual usage................................................ 114 .....2.1
7th pillar: Business usage ................................................ 115 .....3.0
8th pillar: Government usage ........................................... 132 .....3.1

7. Business
usage

5. Skills
6. Individual usage

D. Impact subindex .....................................................128 ....2.6

Zimbabwe

9th pillar: Economic impacts............................................ 119 .....2.7
10th pillar: Social impacts ................................................ 132 .....2.4

Low-income group average

The Networked Readiness Index in detail
INDICATOR

RANK /144

VALUE

INDICATOR

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies* ..................96 ......... 3.1
Laws relating to ICTs* ......................................122 ......... 3.0
Judicial independence* ....................................113 ......... 2.7
Efficiency of legal system in settling disputes* ....82 ......... 3.5
Efficiency of legal system in challenging regs* ..134 ......... 2.6
Intellectual property protection* ..........................94 ......... 3.1
Software piracy rate, % software installed ........107 .......... 92
No. procedures to enforce a contract ................78 .......... 38
No. days to enforce a contract ..........................38 ........ 410

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies* .....................119 ......... 4.1
Venture capital availability* ...............................137 ......... 1.8
Total tax rate, % profits ......................................65 ....... 35.8
No. days to start a business ............................137 .......... 90
No. procedures to start a business ..................102 ............ 9
Intensity of local competition*.............................94 ......... 4.4
Tertiary education gross enrollment rate, %......125 ......... 6.0
Quality of management schools* ........................78 ......... 4.1
Gov’t procurement of advanced tech* .............135 ......... 2.6

VALUE

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile phone subscriptions/100 pop. ..............116 ....... 72.1
Individuals using Internet, %.............................106 ....... 15.7
Households w/ personal computer, % .............113 ......... 5.9
Households w/ Internet access, % ..................109 ......... 4.0
Broadband Internet subscriptions/100 pop. .....115 ......... 0.3
Mobile broadband subscriptions/100 pop..........64 ....... 14.9
Use of virtual social networks* .........................122 ......... 4.6

7th pillar: Business usage
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption* ......................99 ......... 4.4
Capacity for innovation* ...................................129 ......... 2.4
PCT patents, applications/million pop. ..............96 ......... 0.1
Business-to-business Internet use* ..................100 ......... 4.6
Business-to-consumer Internet use* ................121 ......... 3.5
Extent of staff training* .......................................82 ......... 3.8

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to gov’t vision* ...................109 ......... 3.4
8.02 Government Online Service Index, 0–1 (best)...136 ....... 0.13
8.03 Gov’t success in ICT promotion*........................97 ......... 4.0

9th pillar: Economic impacts

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

RANK /144

6th pillar: Individual usage

Electricity production, kWh/capita ....................108 ..... 631.6
Mobile network coverage, % pop ....................123 ....... 72.4
Int’l Internet bandwidth, kb/s per user..............127 ......... 1.7
Secure Internet servers/million pop ..................120 ......... 1.3
Accessibility of digital content* .........................126 ......... 3.6

4th pillar: Affordability
4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs, PPP $/min. .......................30 ....... 0.15
4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs, PPP $/month ..25 ..... 20.53
4.03 Internet & telephony competition, 0–2 (best) ......82 ....... 1.79

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products* 120 ......... 3.6
ICT PCT patents, applications/million pop. .......91 ......... 0.0
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models* .123 ......... 3.4
Knowledge-intensive jobs, % workforce............n/a ......... n/a

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services* ....132 ......... 3.2
Internet access in schools* ..............................123 ......... 2.6
ICT use & gov’t efficiency* ...............................137 ......... 2.7
E-Participation Index, 0–1 (best).......................111 ....... 0.03

5th pillar: Skills
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of educational system* ...........................30 ......... 4.5
Quality of math & science education* .................50 ......... 4.3
Secondary education gross enrollment rate, % 128 ....... 41.0
Adult literacy rate, % ..........................................77 ....... 92.2

Note: Indicators followed by an asterisk (*) are measured on a 1-to-7 (best) scale. For
further details and explanation, please refer to the section “How to Read the
Country/Economy Profiles” on page 139.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 285

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Part 4
Data Tables

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

How to Read the Data Tables

The following pages provide detailed data for all
144 economies included in The Global Information
Technology Report 2013. The data tables are organized
into 10 sections, which correspond to the 10 pillars of
the Networked Readiness Index (NRI).
Environment subindex
1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment
Readiness subindex
3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
4th pillar: Affordability
5th pillar: Skills
Usage subindex
6th pillar: Individual usage
7th pillar: Business usage
8th pillar: Government usage
Impact subindex
9th pillar: Economic impacts
10th pillar: Social impacts

4: Data Tables

1.01 Effectiveness of law-making bodies*
How effective is your national parliament/congress as a law-making institution? [1 = very ineffective; 7 = very effective—among the best in the
world] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.6

7

Singapore .................................. 6.4
New Zealand ............................. 5.8
Finland ....................................... 5.6
Luxembourg .............................. 5.5
Sweden ..................................... 5.5
Canada ...................................... 5.3
Norway ...................................... 5.3
United Kingdom ......................... 5.2
Rwanda ..................................... 5.2
Barbados ................................... 5.1
Netherlands ............................... 5.1
Malaysia..................................... 5.1
Qatar ......................................... 5.0
Oman ........................................ 5.0
Botswana .................................. 5.0
Switzerland ................................ 4.9
Denmark .................................... 4.9
Australia ..................................... 4.9
Mauritius .................................... 4.8
Germany .................................... 4.8
United Arab Emirates ................. 4.8
Turkey........................................ 4.8
Gambia, The .............................. 4.8
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.7
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.7
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.6
Cyprus ....................................... 4.6
France ....................................... 4.5
Malta ......................................... 4.4
Estonia....................................... 4.4
South Africa ............................... 4.3
Ireland........................................ 4.3
China ......................................... 4.3
Cape Verde ............................... 4.3
Liberia ........................................ 4.2
Seychelles.................................. 4.2
Austria ....................................... 4.2
Namibia ..................................... 4.1
Tajikistan .................................... 4.1
Ghana ........................................ 4.1
Benin ......................................... 4.1
Montenegro ............................... 4.1
Zambia ...................................... 4.0
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.0
Uganda ...................................... 4.0
Sierra Leone .............................. 4.0
Bahrain ...................................... 4.0
Cambodia .................................. 4.0
Vietnam ..................................... 3.9
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.9
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 3.9
Chile .......................................... 3.9
India........................................... 3.9
Japan ........................................ 3.9
Israel .......................................... 3.9
United States ............................. 3.8
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.8
Hungary ..................................... 3.8
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.8
Spain ......................................... 3.7
Kenya ........................................ 3.7
Gabon ....................................... 3.7
Belgium ..................................... 3.7
Morocco .................................... 3.6
Tanzania .................................... 3.6
Nigeria ....................................... 3.6
Iceland ....................................... 3.6
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.6
Georgia ...................................... 3.6
Ethiopia...................................... 3.5
Jamaica ..................................... 3.5
Taiwan, China ............................ 3.5
World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

294 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.5
Portugal ..................................... 3.5
Guyana ...................................... 3.5
Malawi ....................................... 3.5
Indonesia ................................... 3.5
Mozambique .............................. 3.4
Armenia ..................................... 3.4
Mali ............................................ 3.4
Uruguay ..................................... 3.4
Poland ....................................... 3.3
Kuwait ....................................... 3.3
Jordan ....................................... 3.3
Libya .......................................... 3.3
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.3
Latvia ......................................... 3.3
Albania....................................... 3.3
Mongolia .................................... 3.2
Croatia ....................................... 3.2
Bolivia ........................................ 3.2
Serbia ........................................ 3.2
Philippines ................................. 3.2
Honduras ................................... 3.1
Cameroon.................................. 3.1
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.1
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.1
Lithuania .................................... 3.1
Greece ....................................... 3.1
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.1
Bangladesh................................ 3.1
Pakistan ..................................... 3.0
Moldova ..................................... 3.0
Mauritania .................................. 3.0
Thailand ..................................... 3.0
Czech Republic ......................... 3.0
Russian Federation .................... 3.0
Lesotho ..................................... 3.0
Slovenia ..................................... 3.0
Swaziland .................................. 2.9
Bulgaria ..................................... 2.9
Senegal ..................................... 2.8
Panama ..................................... 2.8
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 2.8
Puerto Rico ................................ 2.8
Italy ............................................ 2.8
Colombia ................................... 2.8
Korea, Rep. ............................... 2.8
Suriname ................................... 2.7
Brazil.......................................... 2.7
Nicaragua .................................. 2.7
Egypt ......................................... 2.6
Yemen ....................................... 2.6
Dominican Republic ................... 2.6
Nepal ......................................... 2.6
Ecuador ..................................... 2.5
Romania .................................... 2.5
Mexico ....................................... 2.4
Madagascar ............................... 2.4
Algeria ....................................... 2.4
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.3
Ukraine ...................................... 2.3
Burundi ...................................... 2.3
Lebanon .................................... 2.3
Guinea ....................................... 2.3
Chad.......................................... 2.3
El Salvador................................. 2.2
Paraguay ................................... 2.2
Costa Rica ................................. 2.2
Guatemala ................................. 2.2
Argentina ................................... 2.0
Peru ........................................... 2.0
Haiti ........................................... 1.9
Venezuela .................................. 1.7

1

MEAN: 3.6

7

EXECUTIVE OPINION SURVEY INDICATORS
In the tables, indicators derived from the World
Economic Forum’s Executive Opinion Survey (the Survey)
have scores represented by blue-colored bar graphs.
Survey questions asked for responses on a scale of 1
to 7, where an answer of 1 and 7 always corresponds
to the worst and best possible outcomes, respectively.
In the tables, the Survey question and the two extreme
answers are shown above the rankings. Scores are
reported with a precision of one decimal point, although
exact figures are used to determine rankings. The
sample mean is represented by a dotted line running
across the bar graphs. For more information on the
Executive Opinion Survey and a detailed explanation
of how scores are computed, please refer to Chapter
1.3 of The Global Competitiveness Report 2012–2013,
available for free on the World Economic Forum website
at www.weforum.org/gcr.
OTHER INDICATORS
Indicators not derived from the Executive Opinion Survey
are presented in black bar graphs. For each indicator,
a short description appears at the top of the page. The
base period (i.e., the period to which the majority of
the data corresponds) follows the description. When
the period differs from the base period for a particular
economy, this is indicated in a footnote. A detailed
description for each indicator can be found in the
“Technical Notes and Sources” section at the end of the
Report. When data are not available or are too outdated,
“n/a” is used in lieu of the rank and the value.
Because of the nature of data, ties between two
or more countries are possible. In such cases, shared
rankings are indicated accordingly. For example, it takes
the same number of procedures—26—in Belgium as in
Luxembourg and the Netherlands to enforce a contract.
As a result, in Table 1.08, all three countries are ranked
5th and listed alphabetically.
ONLINE DATA PORTAL
Complementing the analysis presented in this Report, an
online data portal can be accessed via www.weforum.
org/gitr. The platform offers a number of analytical tools
and visualizations, including sortable rankings, scatter
plots, bar charts, and maps, as well as the possibility of
downloading portions of the NRI dataset.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 289

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Index of Data Tables

Environment subindex

Usage subindex

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment ..................293

6th pillar: Individual usage ...................................................329

1.01
1.02
1.03
1.04
1.05
1.06
1.07
1.08
1.09

Effectiveness of law-making bodies ............................. 294
Laws relating to ICTs .................................................... 295
Judicial independence .................................................. 296
Efficiency of legal framework in settling disputes ..........297
Efficiency of legal framework in challenging regulations298
Intellectual property protection ..................................... 299
Software piracy rate ..................................................... 300
Number of procedures to enforce a contract ............... 301
Time to enforce a contract ........................................... 302

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment ..............303
2.01
2.02
2.03
2.04
2.05
2.06
2.07
2.08
2.09

Availability of latest technologies .................................. 304
Venture capital availability ............................................. 305
Total tax rate ................................................................. 306
Time required to start a business ................................. 307
Number of procedures required to start a business .... 308
Intensity of local competition ........................................ 309
Tertiary education enrollment rate .................................310
Quality of management schools ....................................311
Government procurement of advanced technology
products ........................................................................312

6.01
6.02
6.03
6.04
6.05
6.06
6.07

Mobile telephone subscriptions .................................... 330
Internet users .................................................................331
Households with a personal computer ......................... 332
Households with Internet access ................................. 333
Fixed broadband Internet subscriptions ....................... 334
Mobile broadband Internet subscriptions ..................... 335
Use of virtual social networks ....................................... 336

7th pillar: Business usage ....................................................337
7.01
7.02
7.03
7.04
7.05
7.06

Firm-level technology absorption.................................. 338
Capacity for innovation ................................................. 339
PCT patents applications.............................................. 340
Business-to-business Internet use ................................341
Business-to-consumer Internet use ............................. 342
Extent of staff training................................................... 343

8th pillar: Government usage ..............................................345
8.01
8.02
8.03

Importance of ICTs to government vision of the future. 346
Government Online Service Index .................................347
Government success in ICT promotion ........................ 348

Impact subindex
Readiness subindex

9th pillar: Economic impacts ...............................................349

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content .......................313
3.01
3.02
3.03
3.04
3.05

Electricity production .....................................................314
Mobile network coverage rate .......................................315
International Internet bandwidth ....................................316
Secure Internet servers .................................................317
Accessibility of digital content .......................................318

4th pillar: Affordability ..........................................................319
4.01
4.02
4.03

Mobile cellular tariffs ..................................................... 320
Fixed broadband Internet tariffs ....................................321
Internet and telephony sectors competition index ........ 322

9.01
9.02
9.03
9.04

Impact of ICTs on new services and products ............. 350
PCT ICT patent applications ..........................................351
Impact of ICTs on new organizational models .............. 352
Employment in knowledge-intensive activities ............. 353

10th pillar: Social impacts ...................................................355
10.01
10.02
10.03
10.04

Impact of ICTs on access to basic services ................. 356
Internet access in schools ............................................ 357
ICT use and government efficiency .............................. 358
E-Participation Index..................................................... 359

5th pillar: Skills .....................................................................323
5.01
5.02
5.03
5.04

Quality of the educational system..................................324
Quality of math and science education .........................325
Secondary enrollment rate ........................................... 326
Adult literacy rate ...........................................................327

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 291

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Data Tables

1st pillar
Political and regulatory
environment

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

1.01 Effectiveness of law-making bodies
How effective is your national parliament/congress as a law-making institution? [1 = very ineffective; 7 = very effective—among the best in the
world] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.6

7

Singapore .................................. 6.4
New Zealand ............................. 5.8
Finland ....................................... 5.6
Luxembourg .............................. 5.5
Sweden ..................................... 5.5
Canada ...................................... 5.3
Norway ...................................... 5.3
United Kingdom ......................... 5.2
Rwanda ..................................... 5.2
Barbados ................................... 5.1
Netherlands ............................... 5.1
Malaysia..................................... 5.1
Qatar ......................................... 5.0
Oman ........................................ 5.0
Botswana .................................. 5.0
Switzerland ................................ 4.9
Denmark .................................... 4.9
Australia ..................................... 4.9
Mauritius .................................... 4.8
Germany .................................... 4.8
United Arab Emirates ................. 4.8
Turkey........................................ 4.8
Gambia, The .............................. 4.8
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.7
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.7
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.6
Cyprus ....................................... 4.6
France ....................................... 4.5
Malta ......................................... 4.4
Estonia....................................... 4.4
South Africa ............................... 4.3
Ireland........................................ 4.3
China ......................................... 4.3
Cape Verde ............................... 4.3
Liberia ........................................ 4.2
Seychelles.................................. 4.2
Austria ....................................... 4.2
Namibia ..................................... 4.1
Tajikistan .................................... 4.1
Ghana ........................................ 4.1
Benin ......................................... 4.1
Montenegro ............................... 4.1
Zambia ...................................... 4.0
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.0
Uganda ...................................... 4.0
Sierra Leone .............................. 4.0
Bahrain ...................................... 4.0
Cambodia .................................. 4.0
Vietnam ..................................... 3.9
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.9
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 3.9
Chile .......................................... 3.9
India........................................... 3.9
Japan ........................................ 3.9
Israel .......................................... 3.9
United States ............................. 3.8
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.8
Hungary ..................................... 3.8
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.8
Spain ......................................... 3.7
Kenya ........................................ 3.7
Gabon ....................................... 3.7
Belgium ..................................... 3.7
Morocco .................................... 3.6
Tanzania .................................... 3.6
Nigeria ....................................... 3.6
Iceland ....................................... 3.6
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.6
Georgia ...................................... 3.6
Ethiopia...................................... 3.5
Jamaica ..................................... 3.5
Taiwan, China ............................ 3.5

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

294 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.5
Portugal ..................................... 3.5
Guyana ...................................... 3.5
Malawi ....................................... 3.5
Indonesia ................................... 3.5
Mozambique .............................. 3.4
Armenia ..................................... 3.4
Mali ............................................ 3.4
Uruguay ..................................... 3.4
Poland ....................................... 3.3
Kuwait ....................................... 3.3
Jordan ....................................... 3.3
Libya .......................................... 3.3
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.3
Latvia ......................................... 3.3
Albania....................................... 3.3
Mongolia .................................... 3.2
Croatia ....................................... 3.2
Bolivia ........................................ 3.2
Serbia ........................................ 3.2
Philippines ................................. 3.2
Honduras ................................... 3.1
Cameroon.................................. 3.1
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.1
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.1
Lithuania .................................... 3.1
Greece ....................................... 3.1
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.1
Bangladesh................................ 3.1
Pakistan ..................................... 3.0
Moldova ..................................... 3.0
Mauritania .................................. 3.0
Thailand ..................................... 3.0
Czech Republic ......................... 3.0
Russian Federation .................... 3.0
Lesotho ..................................... 3.0
Slovenia ..................................... 3.0
Swaziland .................................. 2.9
Bulgaria ..................................... 2.9
Senegal ..................................... 2.8
Panama ..................................... 2.8
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 2.8
Puerto Rico................................ 2.8
Italy ............................................ 2.8
Colombia ................................... 2.8
Korea, Rep. ............................... 2.8
Suriname ................................... 2.7
Brazil.......................................... 2.7
Nicaragua .................................. 2.7
Egypt ......................................... 2.6
Yemen ....................................... 2.6
Dominican Republic ................... 2.6
Nepal ......................................... 2.6
Ecuador ..................................... 2.5
Romania .................................... 2.5
Mexico ....................................... 2.4
Madagascar ............................... 2.4
Algeria ....................................... 2.4
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.3
Ukraine ...................................... 2.3
Burundi ...................................... 2.3
Lebanon .................................... 2.3
Guinea ....................................... 2.3
Chad.......................................... 2.3
El Salvador................................. 2.2
Paraguay ................................... 2.2
Costa Rica ................................. 2.2
Guatemala ................................. 2.2
Argentina ................................... 2.0
Peru ........................................... 2.0
Haiti ........................................... 1.9
Venezuela .................................. 1.7

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 3.6

7

4: Data Tables

1.02 Laws relating to ICTs
How would you assess your country’s laws relating to the use of ICT (e.g., electronic commerce, digital signatures, consumer protection)? [1
= highly undeveloped; 7 = well-developed] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.0

7

Luxembourg .............................. 6.0
Singapore .................................. 5.8
Estonia....................................... 5.8
Finland ....................................... 5.7
United Kingdom ......................... 5.6
New Zealand ............................. 5.6
Qatar ......................................... 5.5
Sweden ..................................... 5.5
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.5
Netherlands ............................... 5.5
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.5
Denmark .................................... 5.4
Switzerland ................................ 5.4
Norway ...................................... 5.4
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.4
Malta ......................................... 5.3
Australia ..................................... 5.3
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.2
Portugal ..................................... 5.2
United States ............................. 5.2
Austria ....................................... 5.2
Canada ...................................... 5.2
Malaysia..................................... 5.2
France ....................................... 5.1
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.0
Iceland ....................................... 5.0
Germany .................................... 5.0
Ireland........................................ 5.0
South Africa ............................... 5.0
Israel .......................................... 5.0
Chile .......................................... 4.9
Bahrain ...................................... 4.9
Belgium ..................................... 4.9
Rwanda ..................................... 4.9
Slovenia ..................................... 4.8
Oman ........................................ 4.8
Panama ..................................... 4.8
Puerto Rico................................ 4.8
Spain ......................................... 4.7
Lithuania .................................... 4.6
Czech Republic ......................... 4.6
Japan ........................................ 4.5
Mauritius .................................... 4.5
Cyprus ....................................... 4.4
Montenegro ............................... 4.4
Azerbaijan .................................. 4.4
Brazil.......................................... 4.4
Hungary ..................................... 4.4
Gambia, The .............................. 4.3
Armenia ..................................... 4.3
China ......................................... 4.3
India........................................... 4.3
Jordan ....................................... 4.3
Latvia ......................................... 4.2
Mexico ....................................... 4.2
Barbados ................................... 4.2
Colombia ................................... 4.2
Indonesia ................................... 4.2
Turkey........................................ 4.2
Kenya ........................................ 4.1
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.1
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 4.1
Slovak Republic ......................... 4.1
Seychelles.................................. 4.1
Costa Rica ................................. 4.1
Philippines ................................. 4.1
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.0
Dominican Republic ................... 4.0
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.0
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.0
Uruguay ..................................... 4.0
Liberia ........................................ 4.0

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.0

7

Croatia ....................................... 3.9
Cape Verde ............................... 3.9
Guatemala ................................. 3.9
Zambia ...................................... 3.9
Italy ............................................ 3.9
Ecuador ..................................... 3.8
Georgia ...................................... 3.8
Thailand ..................................... 3.8
Albania....................................... 3.7
Jamaica ..................................... 3.7
Senegal ..................................... 3.7
Peru ........................................... 3.7
Morocco .................................... 3.7
Tajikistan .................................... 3.7
Egypt ......................................... 3.7
Romania .................................... 3.7
Cambodia .................................. 3.7
Botswana .................................. 3.7
Poland ....................................... 3.7
Vietnam ..................................... 3.7
Nigeria ....................................... 3.7
Namibia ..................................... 3.6
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.6
Ghana ........................................ 3.6
Uganda ...................................... 3.6
Moldova ..................................... 3.5
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.5
Serbia ........................................ 3.5
Ukraine ...................................... 3.5
Honduras ................................... 3.4
Greece ....................................... 3.4
Venezuela .................................. 3.4
Mongolia .................................... 3.4
Russian Federation .................... 3.3
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.2
Malawi ....................................... 3.2
Tanzania .................................... 3.2
Bolivia ........................................ 3.2
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.2
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.2
Pakistan ..................................... 3.2
Guyana ...................................... 3.2
Nicaragua .................................. 3.2
El Salvador................................. 3.2
Argentina ................................... 3.2
Bangladesh................................ 3.1
Cameroon.................................. 3.1
Benin ......................................... 3.1
Ethiopia...................................... 3.1
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.0
Paraguay ................................... 3.0
Mozambique .............................. 3.0
Mali ............................................ 2.9
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 2.9
Timor-Leste ............................... 2.9
Kuwait ....................................... 2.9
Guinea ....................................... 2.8
Mauritania .................................. 2.8
Nepal ......................................... 2.7
Madagascar ............................... 2.7
Swaziland .................................. 2.6
Gabon ....................................... 2.6
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.5
Libya .......................................... 2.5
Chad.......................................... 2.4
Lesotho ..................................... 2.4
Suriname ................................... 2.3
Algeria ....................................... 2.3
Yemen ....................................... 2.2
Lebanon .................................... 2.1
Haiti ........................................... 2.1
Burundi ...................................... 2.0

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 295

4: Data Tables

1.03 Judicial independence
To what extent is the judiciary in your country independent from influences of members of government, citizens or firms? [1 = heavily
influenced; 7 = entirely independent] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.9

7

New Zealand ............................. 6.7
Finland ....................................... 6.5
Netherlands ............................... 6.4
Ireland........................................ 6.3
Canada ...................................... 6.3
Switzerland ................................ 6.3
Germany .................................... 6.2
Norway ...................................... 6.2
Sweden ..................................... 6.2
Qatar ......................................... 6.2
United Kingdom ......................... 6.2
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 6.0
Denmark .................................... 6.0
Australia ..................................... 6.0
Israel .......................................... 5.9
Luxembourg .............................. 5.8
Japan ........................................ 5.8
Iceland ....................................... 5.7
Barbados ................................... 5.7
Singapore .................................. 5.7
Estonia....................................... 5.5
Botswana .................................. 5.5
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.4
Chile .......................................... 5.3
Rwanda ..................................... 5.3
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.3
South Africa ............................... 5.3
Belgium ..................................... 5.2
Uruguay ..................................... 5.2
Austria ....................................... 5.2
Oman ........................................ 5.1
Bahrain ...................................... 5.1
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 5.1
Mauritius .................................... 5.1
Malta ......................................... 5.0
Kuwait ....................................... 4.9
France ....................................... 4.9
United States ............................. 4.9
Cyprus ....................................... 4.8
Costa Rica ................................. 4.7
Puerto Rico................................ 4.6
Taiwan, China ............................ 4.6
Malaysia..................................... 4.6
Namibia ..................................... 4.6
India........................................... 4.5
Jamaica ..................................... 4.4
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.4
Jordan ....................................... 4.4
Gambia, The .............................. 4.3
Poland ....................................... 4.2
Cape Verde ............................... 4.2
Liberia ........................................ 4.2
Egypt ......................................... 4.1
Malawi ....................................... 4.1
Suriname ................................... 4.1
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.1
Pakistan ..................................... 4.1
Ghana ........................................ 4.1
Thailand ..................................... 4.0
Spain ......................................... 4.0
Latvia ......................................... 4.0
Seychelles.................................. 4.0
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.0
Tajikistan .................................... 3.9
Montenegro ............................... 3.9
China ......................................... 3.9
Portugal ..................................... 3.9
Italy ............................................ 3.8
Honduras ................................... 3.8
Slovenia ..................................... 3.8
Brazil.......................................... 3.8
Hungary ..................................... 3.7

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

296 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Nigeria ....................................... 3.7
Korea, Rep. ............................... 3.7
Czech Republic ......................... 3.7
Indonesia ................................... 3.6
Tanzania .................................... 3.5
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.5
Zambia ...................................... 3.5
Uganda ...................................... 3.5
Morocco .................................... 3.5
Lithuania .................................... 3.5
Turkey........................................ 3.5
Libya .......................................... 3.4
Kenya ........................................ 3.4
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.4
Vietnam ..................................... 3.4
Mexico ....................................... 3.4
Nepal ......................................... 3.3
Swaziland .................................. 3.3
Cambodia .................................. 3.3
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.2
Guyana ...................................... 3.2
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.2
Georgia ...................................... 3.2
Colombia ................................... 3.2
Bolivia ........................................ 3.1
Greece ....................................... 3.1
Philippines ................................. 3.0
Lesotho ..................................... 3.0
Benin ......................................... 2.9
Bulgaria ..................................... 2.9
Guatemala ................................. 2.9
Bangladesh................................ 2.8
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 2.8
Croatia ....................................... 2.8
Sierra Leone .............................. 2.8
Mauritania .................................. 2.8
Ethiopia...................................... 2.8
Armenia ..................................... 2.8
Mali ............................................ 2.8
Mongolia .................................... 2.8
Zimbabwe .................................. 2.7
Romania .................................... 2.7
Slovak Republic ......................... 2.7
El Salvador................................. 2.7
Gabon ....................................... 2.6
Senegal ..................................... 2.6
Guinea ....................................... 2.6
Dominican Republic ................... 2.6
Albania....................................... 2.6
Russian Federation .................... 2.6
Algeria ....................................... 2.5
Ukraine ...................................... 2.5
Peru ........................................... 2.5
Burkina Faso.............................. 2.5
Cameroon.................................. 2.5
Ecuador ..................................... 2.5
Serbia ........................................ 2.4
Mozambique .............................. 2.4
Lebanon .................................... 2.4
Panama ..................................... 2.3
Argentina ................................... 2.3
Nicaragua .................................. 2.2
Madagascar ............................... 2.2
Chad.......................................... 2.2
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 2.1
Moldova ..................................... 2.1
Yemen ....................................... 2.0
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 1.9
Paraguay ................................... 1.9
Haiti ........................................... 1.8
Burundi ...................................... 1.7
Venezuela .................................. 1.3

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 3.9

7

4: Data Tables

1.04 Efficiency of legal framework in settling disputes
How efficient is the legal framework in your country for private businesses in settling disputes? [1 = extremely inefficient; 7 = highly efficient] |
2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.8

7

Singapore .................................. 6.2
Finland ....................................... 6.0
New Zealand ............................. 5.9
Switzerland ................................ 5.7
Sweden ..................................... 5.6
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.6
Norway ...................................... 5.6
Netherlands ............................... 5.6
Canada ...................................... 5.4
Qatar ......................................... 5.4
United Kingdom ......................... 5.4
Luxembourg .............................. 5.2
Denmark .................................... 5.1
Malaysia..................................... 5.1
Rwanda ..................................... 5.1
Botswana .................................. 5.0
South Africa ............................... 5.0
Australia ..................................... 5.0
Oman ........................................ 5.0
Germany .................................... 4.9
Gambia, The .............................. 4.9
United Arab Emirates ................. 4.8
Chile .......................................... 4.8
Puerto Rico................................ 4.8
Austria ....................................... 4.8
Mauritius .................................... 4.7
Iceland ....................................... 4.7
Barbados ................................... 4.7
Ireland........................................ 4.6
Bahrain ...................................... 4.6
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.6
Cyprus ....................................... 4.6
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.5
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.5
United States ............................. 4.5
Japan ........................................ 4.5
France ....................................... 4.4
Namibia ..................................... 4.4
Zambia ...................................... 4.4
Taiwan, China ............................ 4.3
Estonia....................................... 4.3
Liberia ........................................ 4.2
Jordan ....................................... 4.2
China ......................................... 4.2
Belgium ..................................... 4.2
Israel .......................................... 4.1
Panama ..................................... 4.1
Nigeria ....................................... 4.1
Uganda ...................................... 4.1
Ghana ........................................ 4.0
Montenegro ............................... 4.0
Malawi ....................................... 4.0
Tajikistan .................................... 4.0
Morocco .................................... 4.0
Seychelles.................................. 4.0
Cambodia .................................. 4.0
Kuwait ....................................... 4.0
Malta ......................................... 3.9
India........................................... 3.8
Gabon ....................................... 3.8
Turkey........................................ 3.8
Ethiopia...................................... 3.8
Uruguay ..................................... 3.8
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.8
Thailand ..................................... 3.8
Indonesia ................................... 3.8
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.8
Tanzania .................................... 3.7
Spain ......................................... 3.7
Cape Verde ............................... 3.7
Senegal ..................................... 3.7
Kenya ........................................ 3.7

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.8

7

Costa Rica ................................. 3.6
Vietnam ..................................... 3.6
Armenia ..................................... 3.6
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.6
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.6
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.6
Jamaica ..................................... 3.6
Korea, Rep. ............................... 3.6
Swaziland .................................. 3.5
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.5
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.5
Brazil.......................................... 3.5
Mali ............................................ 3.5
Egypt ......................................... 3.4
Guyana ...................................... 3.4
Cameroon.................................. 3.4
Georgia ...................................... 3.4
Lithuania .................................... 3.3
Benin ......................................... 3.3
Mauritania .................................. 3.3
Mozambique .............................. 3.3
Mongolia .................................... 3.3
Dominican Republic ................... 3.3
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.3
Colombia ................................... 3.3
Albania....................................... 3.3
Lesotho ..................................... 3.3
Mexico ....................................... 3.3
Bangladesh................................ 3.3
Honduras ................................... 3.2
Libya .......................................... 3.2
Bolivia ........................................ 3.2
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.2
Latvia ......................................... 3.2
Philippines ................................. 3.2
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.2
Pakistan ..................................... 3.1
Guatemala ................................. 3.1
Poland ....................................... 3.1
Nicaragua .................................. 3.1
Nepal ......................................... 3.1
Lebanon .................................... 3.1
Czech Republic ......................... 3.0
Suriname ................................... 3.0
Hungary ..................................... 3.0
Peru ........................................... 3.0
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 2.9
Moldova ..................................... 2.9
Portugal ..................................... 2.9
Bulgaria ..................................... 2.8
El Salvador................................. 2.8
Russian Federation .................... 2.8
Madagascar ............................... 2.7
Slovenia ..................................... 2.7
Paraguay ................................... 2.7
Guinea ....................................... 2.7
Argentina ................................... 2.7
Ecuador ..................................... 2.7
Chad.......................................... 2.7
Algeria ....................................... 2.6
Romania .................................... 2.6
Burundi ...................................... 2.6
Greece ....................................... 2.5
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.5
Croatia ....................................... 2.5
Serbia ........................................ 2.5
Italy ............................................ 2.5
Slovak Republic ......................... 2.4
Ukraine ...................................... 2.4
Yemen ....................................... 2.1
Haiti ........................................... 2.1
Venezuela .................................. 1.9

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 297

4: Data Tables

1.05 Efficiency of legal framework in challenging regulations
How efficient is the legal framework in your country for private businesses in challenging the legality of government actions and/or
regulations? [1 = extremely inefficient; 7 = highly efficient] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.7

7

Finland ....................................... 5.9
Switzerland ................................ 5.6
Netherlands ............................... 5.6
New Zealand ............................. 5.5
Sweden ..................................... 5.5
Singapore .................................. 5.5
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.4
Luxembourg .............................. 5.3
Norway ...................................... 5.3
Malaysia..................................... 5.1
United Kingdom ......................... 5.1
Canada ...................................... 5.1
Germany .................................... 5.0
Qatar ......................................... 4.9
Botswana .................................. 4.9
South Africa ............................... 4.8
Rwanda ..................................... 4.8
Cyprus ....................................... 4.7
Australia ..................................... 4.7
Denmark .................................... 4.6
Chile .......................................... 4.6
Austria ....................................... 4.6
Puerto Rico................................ 4.6
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.6
United Arab Emirates ................. 4.5
Gambia, The .............................. 4.5
France ....................................... 4.5
Bahrain ...................................... 4.5
Iceland ....................................... 4.5
Mauritius .................................... 4.5
Ireland........................................ 4.5
Barbados ................................... 4.5
Oman ........................................ 4.5
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.4
Seychelles.................................. 4.2
Taiwan, China ............................ 4.2
United States ............................. 4.2
Liberia ........................................ 4.2
Estonia....................................... 4.2
Cambodia .................................. 4.2
Belgium ..................................... 4.2
Namibia ..................................... 4.1
Tajikistan .................................... 4.1
Jordan ....................................... 4.0
Lithuania .................................... 4.0
Uruguay ..................................... 4.0
Costa Rica ................................. 4.0
Japan ........................................ 4.0
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.0
Gabon ....................................... 4.0
Malawi ....................................... 3.9
India........................................... 3.9
China ......................................... 3.9
Montenegro ............................... 3.9
Zambia ...................................... 3.9
Turkey........................................ 3.9
Israel .......................................... 3.9
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.9
Uganda ...................................... 3.9
Morocco .................................... 3.8
Brazil.......................................... 3.8
Spain ......................................... 3.8
Indonesia ................................... 3.8
Cape Verde ............................... 3.7
Nigeria ....................................... 3.7
Benin ......................................... 3.7
Kuwait ....................................... 3.7
Malta ......................................... 3.7
Kenya ........................................ 3.6
Tanzania .................................... 3.6
Bangladesh................................ 3.6
Mauritania .................................. 3.6

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

298 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Thailand ..................................... 3.6
Vietnam ..................................... 3.6
Ethiopia...................................... 3.5
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.5
Honduras ................................... 3.5
Ghana ........................................ 3.5
Armenia ..................................... 3.5
Panama ..................................... 3.5
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.5
Mali ............................................ 3.5
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.4
Senegal ..................................... 3.4
Mexico ....................................... 3.4
Nepal ......................................... 3.4
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.3
Libya .......................................... 3.3
Colombia ................................... 3.3
Jamaica ..................................... 3.3
Cameroon.................................. 3.3
Latvia ......................................... 3.3
Albania....................................... 3.3
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.3
Guyana ...................................... 3.2
Korea, Rep. ............................... 3.2
Pakistan ..................................... 3.2
Guatemala ................................. 3.2
Bolivia ........................................ 3.2
Egypt ......................................... 3.2
Portugal ..................................... 3.2
Philippines ................................. 3.2
Poland ....................................... 3.2
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.1
Peru ........................................... 3.1
Georgia ...................................... 3.1
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.1
Swaziland .................................. 3.0
Mozambique .............................. 3.0
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.0
Lesotho ..................................... 3.0
Moldova ..................................... 3.0
Mongolia .................................... 3.0
Bulgaria ..................................... 2.9
Suriname ................................... 2.9
Slovenia ..................................... 2.9
El Salvador................................. 2.9
Czech Republic ......................... 2.9
Dominican Republic ................... 2.9
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 2.8
Chad.......................................... 2.8
Guinea ....................................... 2.8
Madagascar ............................... 2.8
Paraguay ................................... 2.7
Nicaragua .................................. 2.7
Lebanon .................................... 2.7
Russian Federation .................... 2.7
Romania .................................... 2.7
Croatia ....................................... 2.7
Yemen ....................................... 2.6
Italy ............................................ 2.6
Greece ....................................... 2.6
Serbia ........................................ 2.6
Zimbabwe .................................. 2.6
Hungary ..................................... 2.5
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.5
Algeria ....................................... 2.5
Ecuador ..................................... 2.5
Ukraine ...................................... 2.4
Slovak Republic ......................... 2.4
Burundi ...................................... 2.4
Argentina ................................... 2.1
Haiti ........................................... 2.1
Venezuela .................................. 1.7

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 3.7

7

4: Data Tables

1.06 Intellectual property protection
How would you rate intellectual property protection, including anti-counterfeiting measures, in your country? [1 = very weak; 7 = very strong]
| 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.8

7

Finland ....................................... 6.3
Singapore .................................. 6.1
New Zealand ............................. 6.1
Switzerland ................................ 6.0
Netherlands ............................... 5.9
United Kingdom ......................... 5.9
Luxembourg .............................. 5.9
Qatar ......................................... 5.8
France ....................................... 5.6
Germany .................................... 5.6
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.6
Sweden ..................................... 5.6
Puerto Rico................................ 5.6
Norway ...................................... 5.5
Ireland........................................ 5.5
Austria ....................................... 5.5
Canada ...................................... 5.4
Japan ........................................ 5.4
Australia ..................................... 5.3
South Africa ............................... 5.3
Denmark .................................... 5.3
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.2
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.2
Belgium ..................................... 5.2
Oman ........................................ 5.2
Iceland ....................................... 5.2
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.1
Bahrain ...................................... 5.1
United States ............................. 5.0
Barbados ................................... 4.9
Malaysia..................................... 4.9
Rwanda ..................................... 4.8
Israel .......................................... 4.8
Estonia....................................... 4.7
Malta ......................................... 4.7
Gambia, The .............................. 4.7
Liberia ........................................ 4.6
Panama ..................................... 4.6
Jordan ....................................... 4.5
Korea, Rep. ............................... 4.3
Slovenia ..................................... 4.3
Portugal ..................................... 4.3
Namibia ..................................... 4.3
Cyprus ....................................... 4.2
Botswana .................................. 4.1
Kuwait ....................................... 4.0
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.0
Hungary ..................................... 4.0
Uruguay ..................................... 4.0
Spain ......................................... 4.0
China ......................................... 3.9
Seychelles.................................. 3.9
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.9
Mauritius .................................... 3.8
Sri Lanka ................................... 3.8
Czech Republic ......................... 3.8
Latvia ......................................... 3.8
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.8
Zambia ...................................... 3.8
Indonesia ................................... 3.7
Chile .......................................... 3.7
Italy ............................................ 3.7
India........................................... 3.7
Greece ....................................... 3.7
Ethiopia...................................... 3.7
Lithuania .................................... 3.7
Poland ....................................... 3.6
Costa Rica ................................. 3.6
Swaziland .................................. 3.6
Montenegro ............................... 3.6
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.6
Malawi ....................................... 3.6

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.8

7

Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.5
Tajikistan .................................... 3.5
Brazil.......................................... 3.5
Croatia ....................................... 3.5
Mexico ....................................... 3.5
Guyana ...................................... 3.4
Jamaica ..................................... 3.4
Armenia ..................................... 3.4
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.4
Morocco .................................... 3.4
Egypt ......................................... 3.3
Uganda ...................................... 3.3
Cambodia .................................. 3.3
Turkey........................................ 3.3
Philippines ................................. 3.2
Bolivia ........................................ 3.2
Colombia ................................... 3.2
Honduras ................................... 3.2
Benin ......................................... 3.2
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.2
Ghana ........................................ 3.1
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.1
Senegal ..................................... 3.1
Kenya ........................................ 3.1
Tanzania .................................... 3.1
Nicaragua .................................. 3.1
Gabon ....................................... 3.1
Cameroon.................................. 3.1
Thailand ..................................... 3.1
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.1
Albania....................................... 3.0
Lesotho ..................................... 3.0
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.0
Pakistan ..................................... 3.0
Mauritania .................................. 2.9
Timor-Leste ............................... 2.9
Mali ............................................ 2.9
Nigeria ....................................... 2.9
Libya .......................................... 2.9
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 2.9
Cape Verde ............................... 2.9
Romania .................................... 2.9
Ecuador ..................................... 2.8
Serbia ........................................ 2.8
Moldova ..................................... 2.8
Nepal ......................................... 2.8
Dominican Republic ................... 2.7
Ukraine ...................................... 2.7
Guatemala ................................. 2.6
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 2.6
Vietnam ..................................... 2.6
Lebanon .................................... 2.6
Russian Federation .................... 2.6
Georgia ...................................... 2.6
Peru ........................................... 2.6
Mozambique .............................. 2.6
Suriname ................................... 2.5
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 2.5
Bangladesh................................ 2.4
Mongolia .................................... 2.4
El Salvador................................. 2.4
Argentina ................................... 2.4
Madagascar ............................... 2.4
Paraguay ................................... 2.2
Guinea ....................................... 2.2
Chad.......................................... 2.1
Yemen ....................................... 2.0
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.0
Burundi ...................................... 1.9
Algeria ....................................... 1.8
Venezuela .................................. 1.7
Haiti ........................................... 1.6

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 299

4: Data Tables

1.07 Software piracy rate
Unlicensed software units as a percentage of total software units installed | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
5
7
7
7
10
10
12
12
14
14
14
17
18
19
20
20
22
22
22
25
25
25
28
29
30
30
32
33
34
34
34
34
38
39
40
40
40
40
44
44
44
47
48
48
50
50
52
53
53
53
53
57
58
58
58
61
62
62
62
65
65
67
67
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

United States ..................................19
Luxembourg ...................................20
Japan .............................................21
New Zealand ..................................22
Australia ..........................................23
Austria ............................................23
Belgium ..........................................24
Denmark .........................................24
Sweden ..........................................24
Finland ............................................25
Switzerland .....................................25
Germany .........................................26
United Kingdom ..............................26
Canada ...........................................27
Netherlands ....................................27
Norway ...........................................27
Israel ...............................................31
Singapore .......................................33
Ireland.............................................34
Czech Republic ..............................35
South Africa ....................................35
France ............................................37
Taiwan, China .................................37
United Arab Emirates ......................37
Korea, Rep. ....................................40
Portugal ..........................................40
Slovak Republic ..............................40
Hungary ..........................................41
Puerto Rico.....................................42
Hong Kong SAR .............................43
Malta ..............................................43
Spain ..............................................44
Slovenia ..........................................46
Cyprus ............................................48
Estonia............................................48
Iceland ............................................48
Italy .................................................48
Qatar ..............................................50
Saudi Arabia ...................................51
Brazil...............................................53
Colombia ........................................53
Croatia ............................................53
Poland ............................................53
Bahrain ...........................................54
Latvia ..............................................54
Lithuania .........................................54
Malaysia..........................................55
Mauritius .........................................57
Mexico ............................................57
Costa Rica ......................................58
Jordan ............................................58
Kuwait ............................................59
Chile ...............................................61
Egypt ..............................................61
Greece ............................................61
Oman .............................................61
Turkey.............................................62
India................................................63
Romania .........................................63
Russian Federation .........................63
Bulgaria ..........................................64
Bosnia and Herzegovina .................66
Macedonia, FYR .............................66
Morocco .........................................66
Brunei Darussalam ..........................67
Peru ................................................67
Ecuador ..........................................68
Uruguay ..........................................68
Argentina ........................................69
Philippines ......................................70
Lebanon .........................................71
Panama ..........................................72

72
72
75
76
77
77
79
80
80
82
82
82
82
86
86
88
88
90
90
92
92
94
94
94
97
97
99
100
100
102
103
103
103
106
107
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

Business Software Alliance, Shadow Market: 2011 BSA Global Software Piracy Study (Ninth edition)

300 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Serbia .............................................72
Thailand ..........................................72
Honduras ........................................73
Albania............................................75
Dominican Republic ........................76
Kazakhstan .....................................76
China ..............................................77
Kenya .............................................78
Senegal ..........................................78
Bolivia .............................................79
Guatemala ......................................79
Montenegro ....................................79
Nicaragua .......................................79
Botswana .......................................80
El Salvador......................................80
Côte d’Ivoire ...................................81
Vietnam ..........................................81
Nigeria ............................................82
Zambia ...........................................82
Cameroon.......................................83
Paraguay ........................................83
Algeria ............................................84
Sri Lanka ........................................84
Ukraine ...........................................84
Indonesia ........................................86
Pakistan ..........................................86
Azerbaijan .......................................87
Armenia ..........................................88
Venezuela .......................................88
Yemen ............................................89
Bangladesh.....................................90
Libya ...............................................90
Moldova ..........................................90
Georgia ...........................................91
Zimbabwe .......................................92
Barbados .......................................n/a
Benin .............................................n/a
Burkina Faso..................................n/a
Burundi ..........................................n/a
Cambodia ......................................n/a
Cape Verde ...................................n/a
Chad..............................................n/a
Ethiopia..........................................n/a
Gabon ...........................................n/a
Gambia, The ..................................n/a
Ghana ............................................n/a
Guinea ...........................................n/a
Guyana ..........................................n/a
Haiti ...............................................n/a
Iran, Islamic Rep. ...........................n/a
Jamaica .........................................n/a
Kyrgyz Republic .............................n/a
Lesotho .........................................n/a
Liberia ............................................n/a
Madagascar ...................................n/a
Malawi ...........................................n/a
Mali ................................................n/a
Mauritania ......................................n/a
Mongolia ........................................n/a
Mozambique ..................................n/a
Namibia .........................................n/a
Nepal .............................................n/a
Rwanda .........................................n/a
Seychelles......................................n/a
Sierra Leone ..................................n/a
Suriname .......................................n/a
Swaziland ......................................n/a
Tajikistan ........................................n/a
Tanzania ........................................n/a
Timor-Leste ...................................n/a
Trinidad and Tobago......................n/a
Uganda ..........................................n/a

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

1.08 Number of procedures to enforce a contract
Number of procedures to resolve a dispute, counted from the moment the plaintiff files a lawsuit in court until payment | 2012

RANK

1
1
3
4
5
5
5
8
8
8
8
12
12
12
15
15
15
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
18
26
26
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
36
36
36
36
36
36
36
43
43
43
43
43
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
56
68
68
68
68
68
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Ireland.............................................21
Singapore .......................................21
Rwanda ..........................................23
Austria ............................................25
Belgium ..........................................26
Luxembourg ...................................26
Netherlands ....................................26
Czech Republic ..............................27
Hong Kong SAR .............................27
Iceland ............................................27
Latvia ..............................................27
Australia ..........................................28
Botswana .......................................28
United Kingdom ..............................28
France ............................................29
Malaysia..........................................29
South Africa ....................................29
Germany .........................................30
Japan .............................................30
Lithuania .........................................30
Mozambique ...................................30
New Zealand ..................................30
Sweden ..........................................30
Ukraine ...........................................30
Venezuela .......................................30
Guatemala ......................................31
Moldova ..........................................31
Mongolia .........................................32
Panama ..........................................32
Portugal ..........................................32
Romania .........................................32
Slovak Republic ..............................32
Slovenia ..........................................32
Switzerland .....................................32
United States ..................................32
Côte d’Ivoire ...................................33
Finland ............................................33
Gambia, The ...................................33
Georgia ...........................................33
Korea, Rep. ....................................33
Namibia ..........................................33
Poland ............................................33
Colombia ........................................34
Dominican Republic ........................34
El Salvador......................................34
Norway ...........................................34
Vietnam ..........................................34
Denmark .........................................35
Estonia............................................35
Haiti ................................................35
Hungary ..........................................35
Israel ...............................................35
Jamaica ..........................................35
Tajikistan .........................................35
Zambia ...........................................35
Argentina ........................................36
Canada ...........................................36
Chile ...............................................36
Ghana .............................................36
Guyana ...........................................36
Mali .................................................36
Mauritius .........................................36
Russian Federation .........................36
Serbia .............................................36
Thailand ..........................................36
Turkey.............................................36
Yemen ............................................36
Bosnia and Herzegovina .................37
Burkina Faso...................................37
Cape Verde ....................................37
China ..............................................37
Kazakhstan .....................................37

68
68
68
68
68
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
78
90
90
90
90
90
90
90
90
90
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
99
110
110
110
110
110
110
116
116
116
116
116
121
121
121
124
124
124
124
124
129
129
131
131
131
134
134
136
137
137
137
137
141
142
142
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Lebanon .........................................37
Macedonia, FYR .............................37
Nicaragua .......................................37
Philippines ......................................37
Seychelles.......................................37
Barbados ........................................38
Croatia ............................................38
Ethiopia...........................................38
Gabon ............................................38
Jordan ............................................38
Kyrgyz Republic ..............................38
Madagascar ....................................38
Mexico ............................................38
Paraguay ........................................38
Tanzania .........................................38
Uganda ...........................................38
Zimbabwe .......................................38
Albania............................................39
Azerbaijan .......................................39
Bulgaria ..........................................39
Ecuador ..........................................39
Greece ............................................39
Iran, Islamic Rep. ............................39
Nepal ..............................................39
Puerto Rico.....................................39
Sierra Leone ...................................39
Bolivia .............................................40
Costa Rica ......................................40
Indonesia ........................................40
Liberia .............................................40
Malta ..............................................40
Morocco .........................................40
Nigeria ............................................40
Saudi Arabia ...................................40
Spain ..............................................40
Sri Lanka ........................................40
Swaziland .......................................40
Bangladesh.....................................41
Chad...............................................41
Italy .................................................41
Lesotho ..........................................41
Peru ................................................41
Uruguay ..........................................41
Benin ..............................................42
Cameroon.......................................42
Egypt ..............................................42
Malawi ............................................42
Trinidad and Tobago.......................42
Cyprus ............................................43
Qatar ..............................................43
Senegal ..........................................43
Brazil...............................................44
Burundi ...........................................44
Cambodia .......................................44
Kenya .............................................44
Suriname ........................................44
Algeria ............................................45
Taiwan, China .................................45
India................................................46
Mauritania .......................................46
Pakistan ..........................................46
Brunei Darussalam ..........................47
Honduras ........................................47
Bahrain ...........................................48
Armenia ..........................................49
Guinea ............................................49
Montenegro ....................................49
United Arab Emirates ......................49
Kuwait ............................................50
Oman .............................................51
Timor-Leste ....................................51
Libya ..............................................n/a

World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size Enterprises

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 301

4: Data Tables

1.09 Time to enforce a contract
Number of days to resolve a dispute, counted from the moment the plaintiff decides to file the lawsuit in court until payment | 2012

RANK

1
2
3
3
5
6
7
7
9
10
11
12
13
13
15
16
17
18
18
20
20
20
20
24
25
25
25
28
29
29
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
38
40
41
42
43
43
43
46
47
48
49
49
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
62
62
65
65
65
65
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Singapore .....................................150
New Zealand ................................216
Korea, Rep. ..................................230
Rwanda ........................................230
Azerbaijan .....................................237
Kyrgyz Republic ............................260
Namibia ........................................270
Russian Federation .......................270
Lithuania .......................................275
Guinea ..........................................276
Norway .........................................280
Georgia .........................................285
Mongolia .......................................314
Sweden ........................................314
Luxembourg .................................321
Moldova ........................................327
Ukraine .........................................343
Hong Kong SAR ...........................360
Japan ...........................................360
Kazakhstan ...................................370
Macedonia, FYR ...........................370
Mauritania .....................................370
United States ................................370
Finland ..........................................375
Albania..........................................390
France ..........................................390
Switzerland ...................................390
Germany .......................................394
Australia ........................................395
Hungary ........................................395
Austria ..........................................397
United Kingdom ............................399
Vietnam ........................................400
Cambodia .....................................401
China ............................................406
Gambia, The .................................407
Nicaragua .....................................409
Denmark .......................................410
Zimbabwe .....................................410
Mexico ..........................................415
Iceland ..........................................417
Turkey...........................................420
Cape Verde ..................................425
Estonia..........................................425
Malaysia........................................425
Peru ..............................................428
Tajikistan .......................................430
Malawi ..........................................432
Armenia ........................................440
Thailand ........................................440
Burkina Faso.................................446
Nigeria ..........................................457
Dominican Republic ......................460
Tanzania .......................................462
Kenya ...........................................465
Latvia ............................................469
Zambia .........................................471
Chile .............................................480
Ghana ...........................................487
Uganda .........................................490
Indonesia ......................................498
Belgium ........................................505
Iran, Islamic Rep. ..........................505
Malta ............................................505
Morocco .......................................510
Spain ............................................510
Taiwan, China ...............................510
Venezuela .....................................510
Romania .......................................512
Netherlands ..................................514
Sierra Leone .................................515
United Arab Emirates ....................524

73
73
75
76
76
78
79
80
81
82
82
84
85
86
87
88
88
90
91
92
93
94
95
95
97
98
99
99
99
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
137
139
140
141
142
143
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Ethiopia.........................................530
Haiti ..............................................530
Brunei Darussalam ........................540
Montenegro ..................................545
Slovak Republic ............................545
Portugal ........................................547
Bulgaria ........................................564
Kuwait ..........................................566
Yemen ..........................................569
Canada .........................................570
Qatar ............................................570
Croatia ..........................................572
Guyana .........................................581
Ecuador ........................................588
Argentina ......................................590
Bolivia ...........................................591
Paraguay ......................................591
Bosnia and Herzegovina ...............595
Oman ...........................................598
South Africa ..................................600
Czech Republic ............................611
Lesotho ........................................615
Mali ...............................................620
Puerto Rico...................................620
Botswana .....................................625
Algeria ..........................................630
Bahrain .........................................635
Saudi Arabia .................................635
Serbia ...........................................635
Mauritius .......................................645
Ireland...........................................650
Jamaica ........................................655
Poland ..........................................685
Panama ........................................686
Jordan ..........................................689
Lebanon .......................................721
Uruguay ........................................725
Mozambique .................................730
Brazil.............................................731
Cyprus ..........................................735
Chad.............................................743
Côte d’Ivoire .................................770
Senegal ........................................780
El Salvador....................................786
Benin ............................................795
Cameroon.....................................800
Greece ..........................................819
Burundi .........................................832
Philippines ....................................842
Costa Rica ....................................852
Madagascar ..................................871
Israel .............................................890
Nepal ............................................910
Seychelles.....................................915
Honduras ......................................920
Swaziland .....................................956
Pakistan ........................................976
Egypt .........................................1,010
Gabon .......................................1,070
Italy ............................................1,210
Liberia ........................................1,280
Timor-Leste ...............................1,285
Slovenia .....................................1,290
Sri Lanka ...................................1,318
Barbados ...................................1,340
Trinidad and Tobago..................1,340
Colombia ...................................1,346
India...........................................1,420
Bangladesh................................1,442
Guatemala .................................1,459
Suriname ...................................1,715
Libya ..............................................n/a

World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size Enterprises

302 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Data Tables

2nd pillar
Business and innovation
environment

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

2.01 Availability of latest technologies
To what extent are the latest technologies available in your country? [1 = not available; 7 = widely available] | 2011–2012 weighted average

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 5.0

7

Sweden ..................................... 6.7
Switzerland ................................ 6.6
Finland ....................................... 6.6
Netherlands ............................... 6.5
Norway ...................................... 6.5
United Kingdom ......................... 6.5
Iceland ....................................... 6.5
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 6.5
Belgium ..................................... 6.5
Luxembourg .............................. 6.4
Japan ........................................ 6.3
Singapore .................................. 6.3
Austria ....................................... 6.3
United States ............................. 6.3
Portugal ..................................... 6.3
France ....................................... 6.3
Germany .................................... 6.3
Canada ...................................... 6.3
Australia ..................................... 6.2
Denmark .................................... 6.2
Malta ......................................... 6.2
Israel .......................................... 6.2
United Arab Emirates ................. 6.2
Bahrain ...................................... 6.2
Qatar ......................................... 6.1
Korea, Rep. ............................... 6.1
New Zealand ............................. 6.1
Barbados ................................... 6.0
Ireland........................................ 6.0
Panama ..................................... 6.0
Puerto Rico................................ 6.0
Chile .......................................... 5.9
Spain ......................................... 5.9
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.9
Malaysia..................................... 5.8
Estonia....................................... 5.8
Lithuania .................................... 5.7
Jordan ....................................... 5.7
South Africa ............................... 5.7
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.6
Slovenia ..................................... 5.6
Cyprus ....................................... 5.5
Czech Republic ......................... 5.5
Jamaica ..................................... 5.5
Turkey........................................ 5.4
Oman ........................................ 5.4
India........................................... 5.3
Mauritius .................................... 5.3
Senegal ..................................... 5.3
Brazil.......................................... 5.3
Guatemala ................................. 5.3
Mexico ....................................... 5.3
Morocco .................................... 5.3
Croatia ....................................... 5.2
Hungary ..................................... 5.2
Philippines ................................. 5.2
Costa Rica ................................. 5.2
Greece ....................................... 5.2
Slovak Republic ......................... 5.2
Dominican Republic ................... 5.2
Namibia ..................................... 5.2
Sri Lanka ................................... 5.1
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 5.1
Latvia ......................................... 5.1
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 5.0
Kuwait ....................................... 5.0
Seychelles.................................. 5.0
Cape Verde ............................... 5.0
Italy ............................................ 5.0
Guyana ...................................... 5.0
Gambia, The .............................. 4.9
Indonesia ................................... 4.9

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

304 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Thailand ..................................... 4.9
Kenya ........................................ 4.9
Peru ........................................... 4.9
Lebanon .................................... 4.9
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 4.8
Honduras ................................... 4.8
Cambodia .................................. 4.8
Ukraine ...................................... 4.8
Azerbaijan .................................. 4.8
Uruguay ..................................... 4.8
Pakistan ..................................... 4.7
Tajikistan .................................... 4.7
Nigeria ....................................... 4.7
Ghana ........................................ 4.7
Rwanda ..................................... 4.7
El Salvador................................. 4.7
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 4.6
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.6
Colombia ................................... 4.6
Zambia ...................................... 4.6
Botswana .................................. 4.6
Georgia ...................................... 4.6
Poland ....................................... 4.6
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 4.6
Montenegro ............................... 4.6
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.5
Mali ............................................ 4.5
Paraguay ................................... 4.5
Armenia ..................................... 4.5
Ecuador ..................................... 4.5
Venezuela .................................. 4.5
Uganda ...................................... 4.5
Bangladesh................................ 4.4
Albania....................................... 4.4
China ......................................... 4.4
Mongolia .................................... 4.3
Argentina ................................... 4.3
Suriname ................................... 4.3
Mozambique .............................. 4.3
Nepal ......................................... 4.3
Benin ......................................... 4.2
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.2
Egypt ......................................... 4.2
Mauritania .................................. 4.2
Romania .................................... 4.2
Moldova ..................................... 4.1
Zimbabwe .................................. 4.1
Malawi ....................................... 4.1
Gabon ....................................... 4.1
Tanzania .................................... 4.1
Cameroon.................................. 4.0
Liberia ........................................ 4.0
Libya .......................................... 3.9
Lesotho ..................................... 3.9
Serbia ........................................ 3.9
Madagascar ............................... 3.9
Russian Federation .................... 3.9
Haiti ........................................... 3.8
Swaziland .................................. 3.8
Ethiopia...................................... 3.8
Nicaragua .................................. 3.8
Bolivia ........................................ 3.6
Guinea ....................................... 3.6
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.6
Vietnam ..................................... 3.6
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.6
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.5
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.5
Yemen ....................................... 3.5
Algeria ....................................... 3.4
Chad.......................................... 3.3
Burundi ...................................... 3.2

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 5.0

7

4: Data Tables

2.02 Venture capital availability
In your country, how easy is it for entrepreneurs with innovative but risky projects to find venture capital? [1 = very difficult; 7 = very easy] |
2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 2.7

7

Qatar ......................................... 4.7
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 4.5
Israel .......................................... 4.5
Singapore .................................. 4.4
Sweden ..................................... 4.4
Norway ...................................... 4.3
Bahrain ...................................... 4.3
United Arab Emirates ................. 4.1
Taiwan, China ............................ 4.1
United States ............................. 4.1
Malaysia..................................... 4.0
Luxembourg .............................. 3.9
Finland ....................................... 3.9
Oman ........................................ 3.8
Netherlands ............................... 3.8
United Kingdom ......................... 3.8
Panama ..................................... 3.7
Saudi Arabia .............................. 3.7
Switzerland ................................ 3.6
Canada ...................................... 3.6
Indonesia ................................... 3.6
China ......................................... 3.5
Belgium ..................................... 3.5
New Zealand ............................. 3.5
Liberia ........................................ 3.4
India........................................... 3.4
Rwanda ..................................... 3.4
Australia ..................................... 3.3
Montenegro ............................... 3.3
Bolivia ........................................ 3.3
Chile .......................................... 3.2
Kenya ........................................ 3.2
Estonia....................................... 3.2
Germany .................................... 3.2
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 3.1
Malta ......................................... 3.1
South Africa ............................... 3.1
Morocco .................................... 3.0
Austria ....................................... 3.0
Egypt ......................................... 3.0
Kuwait ....................................... 3.0
Japan ........................................ 3.0
Latvia ......................................... 2.9
Cambodia .................................. 2.9
Cyprus ....................................... 2.9
Peru ........................................... 2.9
Botswana .................................. 2.9
Jordan ....................................... 2.9
Thailand ..................................... 2.9
Tajikistan .................................... 2.9
Brazil.......................................... 2.8
Guyana ...................................... 2.8
Colombia ................................... 2.8
Puerto Rico................................ 2.8
Pakistan ..................................... 2.8
Mauritius .................................... 2.8
France ....................................... 2.8
Bulgaria ..................................... 2.8
Azerbaijan .................................. 2.8
Slovak Republic ......................... 2.8
Nicaragua .................................. 2.7
Philippines ................................. 2.7
Lebanon .................................... 2.7
Guatemala ................................. 2.7
Iceland ....................................... 2.6
Gambia, The .............................. 2.6
Mexico ....................................... 2.6
Ecuador ..................................... 2.6
Denmark .................................... 2.6
Paraguay ................................... 2.6
Madagascar ............................... 2.5
Nigeria ....................................... 2.5

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 2.7

7

Turkey........................................ 2.5
Uganda ...................................... 2.5
Spain ......................................... 2.5
Romania .................................... 2.5
Uruguay ..................................... 2.5
Zambia ...................................... 2.5
Honduras ................................... 2.5
Tanzania .................................... 2.4
Seychelles.................................. 2.4
Namibia ..................................... 2.4
Nepal ......................................... 2.4
Czech Republic ......................... 2.4
Russian Federation .................... 2.4
Lithuania .................................... 2.4
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 2.4
Ireland........................................ 2.4
Armenia ..................................... 2.4
Poland ....................................... 2.4
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 2.3
Mali ............................................ 2.3
Libya .......................................... 2.3
Barbados ................................... 2.3
El Salvador................................. 2.3
Vietnam ..................................... 2.3
Portugal ..................................... 2.3
Yemen ....................................... 2.3
Cape Verde ............................... 2.3
Gabon ....................................... 2.3
Costa Rica ................................. 2.2
Benin ......................................... 2.2
Timor-Leste ............................... 2.2
Georgia ...................................... 2.2
Kazakhstan ................................ 2.2
Ukraine ...................................... 2.2
Sri Lanka ................................... 2.2
Cameroon.................................. 2.2
Venezuela .................................. 2.2
Korea, Rep. ............................... 2.2
Dominican Republic ................... 2.2
Croatia ....................................... 2.1
Slovenia ..................................... 2.1
Senegal ..................................... 2.1
Hungary ..................................... 2.1
Ghana ........................................ 2.1
Moldova ..................................... 2.1
Ethiopia...................................... 2.1
Mauritania .................................. 2.1
Swaziland .................................. 2.1
Italy ............................................ 2.0
Bangladesh................................ 2.0
Suriname ................................... 2.0
Chad.......................................... 2.0
Malawi ....................................... 2.0
Serbia ........................................ 1.9
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 1.9
Mozambique .............................. 1.9
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 1.9
Jamaica ..................................... 1.9
Lesotho ..................................... 1.9
Albania....................................... 1.8
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 1.8
Greece ....................................... 1.8
Argentina ................................... 1.8
Burkina Faso.............................. 1.8
Zimbabwe .................................. 1.8
Algeria ....................................... 1.8
Mongolia .................................... 1.7
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 1.7
Sierra Leone .............................. 1.6
Guinea ....................................... 1.6
Burundi ...................................... 1.6
Haiti ........................................... 1.5

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 305

4: Data Tables

2.03 Total tax rate
Sum of profit tax, labor tax and social contributions, property taxes, turnover taxes, and other taxes, as a share (%) of commercial profits |
2012
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
17
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
30
32
33
34
35
36
37
37
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
47
49
49
51
52
53
54
54
56
57
57
59
60
60
60
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Macedonia, FYR ............................9.4
Kuwait .........................................10.7
Qatar ...........................................11.3
Bahrain ........................................13.9
Saudi Arabia ................................14.5
United Arab Emirates ...................14.9
Timor-Leste .................................15.1
Zambia ........................................15.2
Lesotho .......................................16.0
Georgia ........................................16.5
Brunei Darussalam .......................16.8
Luxembourg ................................21.0
Oman ..........................................22.0
Montenegro .................................22.3
Cambodia ....................................22.5
Namibia .......................................22.7
Cyprus .........................................23.0
Hong Kong SAR ..........................23.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............24.1
Malaysia.......................................24.5
Mongolia ......................................24.6
Botswana ....................................25.3
Seychelles....................................25.7
Ireland..........................................26.4
Canada ........................................26.9
Liberia ..........................................27.4
Singapore ....................................27.6
Denmark ......................................27.7
Suriname .....................................27.9
Chile ............................................28.1
Jordan .........................................28.1
Mauritius ......................................28.5
Kazakhstan ..................................28.6
Bulgaria .......................................28.7
Trinidad and Tobago....................29.1
Korea, Rep. .................................29.8
Lebanon ......................................30.2
Switzerland ..................................30.2
Israel ............................................30.5
Moldova .......................................31.2
Rwanda .......................................31.3
Nepal ...........................................31.5
Sierra Leone ................................32.1
Croatia .........................................32.8
Yemen .........................................32.9
Iceland .........................................33.0
Ethiopia........................................33.3
South Africa .................................33.3
Ghana ..........................................33.5
New Zealand ...............................33.5
Nigeria .........................................33.8
Serbia ..........................................34.0
Mozambique ................................34.3
Indonesia .....................................34.5
Vietnam .......................................34.5
Ecuador .......................................34.6
Malawi .........................................34.7
Slovenia .......................................34.7
Taiwan, China ..............................34.8
Bangladesh..................................35.0
El Salvador...................................35.0
Paraguay .....................................35.0
Pakistan .......................................35.3
United Kingdom ...........................35.5
Zimbabwe ....................................35.8
Madagascar .................................36.0
Guyana ........................................36.1
Latvia ...........................................36.6
Swaziland ....................................36.8
Uganda ........................................37.1
Cape Verde .................................37.2
Thailand .......................................37.6

73
73
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
85
87
87
89
90
90
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
118
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Albania.........................................38.7
Spain ...........................................38.7
Armenia .......................................38.8
Côte d’Ivoire ................................39.5
Azerbaijan ....................................40.0
Netherlands .................................40.1
Honduras .....................................40.3
Peru .............................................40.5
Finland .........................................40.6
Haiti .............................................40.8
Guatemala ...................................40.9
Turkey..........................................41.2
Malta ...........................................41.6
Norway ........................................41.6
Panama .......................................42.0
Uruguay .......................................42.0
Dominican Republic .....................42.5
Egypt ...........................................42.6
Portugal .......................................42.6
Gabon .........................................43.5
Burkina Faso................................43.6
Lithuania ......................................43.7
Poland .........................................43.8
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................44.1
Romania ......................................44.2
Kenya ..........................................44.4
Greece .........................................44.6
Tanzania ......................................45.3
Barbados .....................................45.4
Jamaica .......................................45.6
Senegal .......................................46.0
Philippines ...................................46.6
United States ...............................46.7
Germany ......................................46.8
Australia .......................................47.5
Slovak Republic ...........................47.9
Cameroon....................................49.1
Czech Republic ...........................49.2
Morocco ......................................49.6
Japan ..........................................50.0
Sri Lanka .....................................50.1
Hungary .......................................50.3
Puerto Rico..................................50.7
Mali ..............................................51.7
Mexico .........................................52.5
Burundi ........................................53.0
Sweden .......................................53.0
Austria .........................................53.1
Russian Federation ......................54.1
Costa Rica ...................................55.0
Ukraine ........................................55.4
Belgium .......................................57.7
India.............................................61.8
Venezuela ....................................62.7
China ...........................................63.7
Nicaragua ....................................65.0
Chad............................................65.4
France .........................................65.7
Benin ...........................................65.9
Estonia.........................................67.3
Mauritania ....................................68.2
Italy ..............................................68.3
Kyrgyz Republic ...........................68.9
Brazil............................................69.3
Algeria .........................................72.0
Guinea .........................................73.2
Colombia .....................................74.4
Bolivia ..........................................83.4
Tajikistan ......................................84.5
Argentina ...................................108.3
Gambia, The ..............................283.5
Libya ..............................................n/a

World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size Enterprises

306 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

2.04 Time required to start a business
Number of days required to start a business | 2012

RANK

1
2
2
2
5
5
5
8
8
10
10
10
10
10
10
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
16
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
25
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
34
43
43
43
43
43
43
49
49
49
49
49
54
54
56
56
56
56
56
56
62
62
62
62
62
67
67
69
69
69
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

New Zealand ....................................1
Australia ............................................2
Georgia .............................................2
Macedonia, FYR ...............................2
Hong Kong SAR ...............................3
Rwanda ............................................3
Singapore .........................................3
Albania..............................................4
Belgium ............................................4
Canada .............................................5
Hungary ............................................5
Iceland ..............................................5
Netherlands ......................................5
Portugal ............................................5
Senegal ............................................5
Denmark ...........................................6
Italy ...................................................6
Liberia ...............................................6
Malaysia............................................6
Mauritius ...........................................6
Puerto Rico.......................................6
Slovenia ............................................6
Turkey...............................................6
United States ....................................6
Egypt ................................................7
Estonia..............................................7
France ..............................................7
Jamaica ............................................7
Korea, Rep. ......................................7
Norway .............................................7
Panama ............................................7
Sri Lanka ..........................................7
Uruguay ............................................7
Armenia ............................................8
Azerbaijan .........................................8
Burundi .............................................8
Chile .................................................8
Cyprus ..............................................8
Madagascar ......................................8
Mali ...................................................8
Oman ...............................................8
United Arab Emirates ........................8
Bahrain .............................................9
Croatia ..............................................9
Lebanon ...........................................9
Mexico ..............................................9
Moldova ............................................9
Qatar ................................................9
Ireland.............................................10
Kyrgyz Republic ..............................10
Montenegro ....................................10
Romania .........................................10
Taiwan, China .................................10
Cape Verde ....................................11
Greece ............................................11
Ghana .............................................12
Jordan ............................................12
Mongolia .........................................12
Morocco .........................................12
Serbia .............................................12
Sierra Leone ...................................12
Burkina Faso...................................13
Colombia ........................................13
Iran, Islamic Rep. ............................13
Mozambique ...................................13
United Kingdom ..............................13
Finland ............................................14
Honduras ........................................14
Cameroon.......................................15
Ethiopia...........................................15
Germany .........................................15
Latvia ..............................................16

72
72
75
75
77
77
77
77
81
81
81
81
81
81
87
87
87
90
90
90
93
94
95
95
97
97
99
99
99
99
103
103
105
106
106
108
108
108
108
112
112
114
114
116
116
118
119
120
120
120
123
123
123
126
127
128
129
129
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Slovak Republic ..............................16
Sweden ..........................................16
El Salvador......................................17
Zambia ...........................................17
Barbados ........................................18
Bulgaria ..........................................18
Russian Federation .........................18
Switzerland .....................................18
Bangladesh.....................................19
Dominican Republic ........................19
Kazakhstan .....................................19
Luxembourg ...................................19
Mauritania .......................................19
South Africa ....................................19
Czech Republic ..............................20
Guyana ...........................................20
Lithuania .........................................20
Israel ...............................................21
Pakistan ..........................................21
Saudi Arabia ...................................21
Ukraine ...........................................22
Japan .............................................23
Lesotho ..........................................24
Tajikistan .........................................24
Algeria ............................................25
Austria ............................................25
Argentina ........................................26
Benin ..............................................26
Peru ................................................26
Tanzania .........................................26
Gambia, The ...................................27
India................................................27
Spain ..............................................28
Nepal ..............................................29
Thailand ..........................................29
Côte d’Ivoire ...................................32
Kenya .............................................32
Kuwait ............................................32
Poland ............................................32
China ..............................................33
Uganda ...........................................33
Nigeria ............................................34
Vietnam ..........................................34
Guinea ............................................35
Paraguay ........................................35
Philippines ......................................36
Bosnia and Herzegovina .................37
Malawi ............................................39
Nicaragua .......................................39
Seychelles.......................................39
Guatemala ......................................40
Malta ..............................................40
Yemen ............................................40
Trinidad and Tobago.......................41
Indonesia ........................................47
Bolivia .............................................50
Ecuador ..........................................56
Swaziland .......................................56
Gabon ............................................58
Costa Rica ......................................60
Botswana .......................................61
Chad...............................................62
Namibia ..........................................66
Cambodia .......................................85
Zimbabwe .......................................90
Timor-Leste ....................................94
Brunei Darussalam ........................101
Haiti ..............................................105
Brazil.............................................119
Venezuela .....................................144
Suriname ......................................694
Libya ..............................................n/a

World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size Enterprises

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 307

4: Data Tables

2.05 Number of procedures required to start a business
Number of procedures required to start a business | 2012

RANK

1
1
3
3
3
3
3
3
3
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
10
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
20
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
30
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
48
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Canada .............................................1
New Zealand ....................................1
Australia ............................................2
Georgia .............................................2
Kyrgyz Republic ................................2
Macedonia, FYR ...............................2
Madagascar ......................................2
Rwanda ............................................2
Slovenia ............................................2
Armenia ............................................3
Belgium ............................................3
Burkina Faso.....................................3
Finland ..............................................3
Hong Kong SAR ...............................3
Malaysia............................................3
Senegal ............................................3
Singapore .........................................3
Sweden ............................................3
Taiwan, China ...................................3
Albania..............................................4
Bulgaria ............................................4
Burundi .............................................4
Denmark ...........................................4
Hungary ............................................4
Ireland...............................................4
Latvia ................................................4
Liberia ...............................................4
Mali ...................................................4
Thailand ............................................4
Benin ................................................5
Cameroon.........................................5
Estonia..............................................5
France ..............................................5
Iceland ..............................................5
Israel .................................................5
Korea, Rep. ......................................5
Lebanon ...........................................5
Mauritius ...........................................5
Netherlands ......................................5
Norway .............................................5
Oman ...............................................5
Peru ..................................................5
Portugal ............................................5
South Africa ......................................5
Sri Lanka ..........................................5
Tajikistan ...........................................5
Uruguay ............................................5
Azerbaijan .........................................6
Croatia ..............................................6
Cyprus ..............................................6
Egypt ................................................6
Guinea ..............................................6
Italy ...................................................6
Jamaica ............................................6
Kazakhstan .......................................6
Luxembourg .....................................6
Mexico ..............................................6
Montenegro ......................................6
Morocco ...........................................6
Panama ............................................6
Poland ..............................................6
Puerto Rico.......................................6
Romania ...........................................6
Serbia ...............................................6
Sierra Leone .....................................6
Slovak Republic ................................6
Switzerland .......................................6
Turkey...............................................6
United Arab Emirates ........................6
United Kingdom ................................6
United States ....................................6
Yemen ..............................................6

48
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
74
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
88
102
102
102
102
102
102
102
102
102
102
102
102
114
114
114
114
114
114
114
114
114
123
123
123
126
126
126
126
126
126
132
132
132
132
132
137
137
139
139
139
142
143
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Zambia .............................................6
Bahrain .............................................7
Bangladesh.......................................7
Chile .................................................7
Dominican Republic ..........................7
Ghana ...............................................7
Iran, Islamic Rep. ..............................7
Jordan ..............................................7
Lesotho ............................................7
Lithuania ...........................................7
Moldova ............................................7
Mongolia ...........................................7
Nepal ................................................7
Paraguay ..........................................7
Ukraine .............................................7
Austria ..............................................8
Barbados ..........................................8
Cape Verde ......................................8
Colombia ..........................................8
El Salvador........................................8
Gambia, The .....................................8
Guyana .............................................8
Japan ...............................................8
Nicaragua .........................................8
Nigeria ..............................................8
Qatar ................................................8
Russian Federation ...........................8
Timor-Leste ......................................8
Trinidad and Tobago.........................8
Cambodia .........................................9
Chad.................................................9
Czech Republic ................................9
Ethiopia.............................................9
Gabon ..............................................9
Germany ...........................................9
Indonesia ..........................................9
Mauritania .........................................9
Mozambique .....................................9
Saudi Arabia .....................................9
Tanzania ...........................................9
Zimbabwe .........................................9
Botswana .......................................10
Côte d’Ivoire ...................................10
Kenya .............................................10
Malawi ............................................10
Namibia ..........................................10
Pakistan ..........................................10
Seychelles.......................................10
Spain ..............................................10
Vietnam ..........................................10
Bosnia and Herzegovina .................11
Greece ............................................11
Malta ..............................................11
Costa Rica ......................................12
Guatemala ......................................12
Haiti ................................................12
India................................................12
Kuwait ............................................12
Swaziland .......................................12
Brazil...............................................13
China ..............................................13
Ecuador ..........................................13
Honduras ........................................13
Suriname ........................................13
Algeria ............................................14
Argentina ........................................14
Bolivia .............................................15
Brunei Darussalam ..........................15
Uganda ...........................................15
Philippines ......................................16
Venezuela .......................................17
Libya ..............................................n/a

World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size Enterprises

308 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

2.06 Intensity of local competition
How would you assess the intensity of competition in the local markets in your country? [1 = limited in most industries; 7 = intense in most
industries] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.8

7

Netherlands ............................... 6.1
Japan ........................................ 6.0
Taiwan, China ............................ 6.0
Belgium ..................................... 6.0
United Kingdom ......................... 6.0
Australia ..................................... 5.9
Austria ....................................... 5.8
Germany .................................... 5.8
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.8
Malta ......................................... 5.8
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.7
Qatar ......................................... 5.7
Czech Republic ......................... 5.7
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.7
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.7
Turkey........................................ 5.7
Puerto Rico................................ 5.7
United States ............................. 5.6
Canada ...................................... 5.6
Switzerland ................................ 5.6
Singapore .................................. 5.5
Sweden ..................................... 5.5
Spain ......................................... 5.5
New Zealand ............................. 5.5
Estonia....................................... 5.5
Sri Lanka ................................... 5.5
Slovak Republic ......................... 5.5
France ....................................... 5.5
Denmark .................................... 5.4
Poland ....................................... 5.4
Jordan ....................................... 5.4
Norway ...................................... 5.4
Bahrain ...................................... 5.4
India........................................... 5.4
Lebanon .................................... 5.4
Malaysia..................................... 5.4
China ......................................... 5.3
Hungary ..................................... 5.3
Chile .......................................... 5.3
Ireland........................................ 5.2
Slovenia ..................................... 5.2
Mauritius .................................... 5.2
Cyprus ....................................... 5.1
Vietnam ..................................... 5.1
Brazil.......................................... 5.1
Guatemala ................................. 5.1
Oman ........................................ 5.1
Lithuania .................................... 5.1
Peru ........................................... 5.1
Philippines ................................. 5.1
South Africa ............................... 5.1
Senegal ..................................... 5.1
Ghana ........................................ 5.0
Thailand ..................................... 5.0
Panama ..................................... 5.0
Dominican Republic ................... 5.0
Morocco .................................... 5.0
Luxembourg .............................. 5.0
Guyana ...................................... 5.0
Costa Rica ................................. 5.0
Zambia ...................................... 5.0
Portugal ..................................... 4.9
Kenya ........................................ 4.9
El Salvador................................. 4.9
Jamaica ..................................... 4.9
Israel .......................................... 4.9
Italy ............................................ 4.9
Finland ....................................... 4.9
Latvia ......................................... 4.9
Barbados ................................... 4.9
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.8
Cambodia .................................. 4.8

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.8

7

Paraguay ................................... 4.8
Botswana .................................. 4.8
Mexico ....................................... 4.8
Suriname ................................... 4.7
Uganda ...................................... 4.7
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 4.7
Colombia ................................... 4.7
Yemen ....................................... 4.7
Kuwait ....................................... 4.7
Gambia, The .............................. 4.7
Bangladesh................................ 4.7
Iceland ....................................... 4.6
Pakistan ..................................... 4.6
Mongolia .................................... 4.6
Liberia ........................................ 4.6
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.6
Honduras ................................... 4.6
Seychelles.................................. 4.5
Namibia ..................................... 4.5
Nigeria ....................................... 4.5
Benin ......................................... 4.5
Zimbabwe .................................. 4.4
Greece ....................................... 4.4
Indonesia ................................... 4.4
Cameroon.................................. 4.4
Rwanda ..................................... 4.4
Uruguay ..................................... 4.4
Madagascar ............................... 4.4
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.3
Romania .................................... 4.3
Ecuador ..................................... 4.3
Ukraine ...................................... 4.3
Burkina Faso.............................. 4.3
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.3
Tajikistan .................................... 4.2
Moldova ..................................... 4.2
Tanzania .................................... 4.2
Mali ............................................ 4.2
Swaziland .................................. 4.2
Nepal ......................................... 4.2
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.1
Montenegro ............................... 4.1
Libya .......................................... 4.1
Guinea ....................................... 4.1
Argentina ................................... 4.1
Lesotho ..................................... 4.1
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 4.1
Croatia ....................................... 4.0
Egypt ......................................... 4.0
Cape Verde ............................... 4.0
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 4.0
Russian Federation .................... 4.0
Mauritania .................................. 3.9
Malawi ....................................... 3.9
Georgia ...................................... 3.9
Albania....................................... 3.9
Nicaragua .................................. 3.9
Armenia ..................................... 3.8
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.8
Gabon ....................................... 3.8
Mozambique .............................. 3.8
Haiti ........................................... 3.7
Bolivia ........................................ 3.7
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.7
Serbia ........................................ 3.6
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.6
Ethiopia...................................... 3.6
Burundi ...................................... 3.5
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.4
Chad.......................................... 3.3
Venezuela .................................. 3.3
Algeria ....................................... 3.1

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 309

4: Data Tables

2.07 Tertiary education enrollment rate
Gross tertiary education enrollment rate (%) | 2010

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Korea, Rep. ...............................103.1
United States ...............................94.8
Finland .........................................93.7
Slovenia .......................................89.6
Greece7 .......................................89.4
Puerto Rico10 ..............................86.2
Taiwan, China10 ..........................83.4
New Zealand ...............................82.6
Ukraine10.....................................81.7
Australia .......................................79.9
Iceland .........................................78.6
Spain ...........................................78.1
Venezuela9 ..................................78.1
Russian Federation9 ....................75.9
Denmark9 ....................................74.4
Norway ........................................74.4
Lithuania ......................................74.0
Sweden .......................................73.8
Poland .........................................72.4
Singapore ....................................72.0
Argentina9 ...................................71.2
Belgium .......................................70.6
Austria .........................................68.2
Ireland..........................................66.2
Chile ............................................66.1
Portugal .......................................65.5
Netherlands .................................65.4
Italy ..............................................65.0
Estonia.........................................64.3
Czech Republic ...........................63.5
Uruguay .......................................63.2
Israel9 ..........................................62.5
Barbados10 .................................61.8
Hungary .......................................60.7
Hong Kong SAR10 ......................60.4
Latvia ...........................................60.1
Canada2 ......................................60.0
United Kingdom ...........................59.7
Japan ..........................................59.7
Romania ......................................58.8
Lebanon10 ...................................57.7
Mongolia10 ..................................57.2
Bulgaria .......................................56.9
France .........................................56.7
Turkey..........................................55.4
Slovak Republic ...........................54.8
Switzerland ..................................54.8
Cyprus .........................................54.6
Libya3 ..........................................54.4
Croatia .........................................54.1
Serbia10 ......................................50.4
Armenia10....................................48.9
Iran, Islamic Rep.10 .....................48.6
Thailand10 ...................................47.7
Montenegro .................................47.6
Panama .......................................45.7
Albania10 .....................................43.9
Kazakhstan11 ..............................43.2
Peru .............................................43.0
Costa Rica10 ...............................43.0
Colombia10 .................................42.9
Kyrgyz Republic10 .......................41.3
Malaysia9 .....................................40.2
Ecuador8 .....................................39.8
Moldova10 ...................................39.4
Bolivia7 ........................................38.6
Macedonia, FYR ..........................38.6
Bosnia and Herzegovina10 ..........38.1
Jordan .........................................37.7
Saudi Arabia ................................36.8
Malta ...........................................35.3
Paraguay .....................................34.6

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Dominican Republic4 ...................34.0
Mauritius10 ..................................32.4
Egypt ...........................................32.4
Algeria10 ......................................32.1
Georgia10 ....................................30.0
Oman10 .......................................28.7
Philippines9..................................28.2
Mexico .........................................28.0
Jamaica .......................................26.0
China ...........................................25.9
Brazil5 ..........................................25.6
United Arab Emirates8 .................25.2
El Salvador...................................23.4
Indonesia .....................................23.1
Vietnam .......................................22.3
Kuwait4........................................21.9
Honduras .....................................20.6
Cape Verde10 ..............................20.4
Brunei Darussalam10 ...................19.6
Azerbaijan10 ................................19.3
Liberia1 ........................................19.1
Tajikistan10 ..................................18.7
Nicaragua3 ..................................18.0
India.............................................17.9
Guatemala7 .................................17.8
Timor-Leste9................................16.7
Sri Lanka .....................................15.5
South Africa6 ...............................15.4
Cambodia10 ................................14.5
Benin10 .......................................13.3
Morocco9 ....................................13.2
Cameroon10 ................................12.4
Ghana10 ......................................12.1
Suriname2 ...................................12.1
Guyana10 ....................................12.0
Qatar10 ........................................11.6
Trinidad and Tobago5 ..................11.5
Guinea10 .....................................11.3
Bangladesh9 ................................10.6
Luxembourg8...............................10.5
Nigeria5 .......................................10.3
Yemen7 .......................................10.2
Uganda10 ......................................9.1
Namibia8 .......................................9.0
Pakistan10 .....................................8.3
Côte d’Ivoire9 ................................8.3
Senegal .........................................7.9
Ethiopia10 ......................................7.6
Botswana6.....................................7.4
Nepal6 ...........................................7.3
Rwanda10 .....................................6.6
Mali10 ............................................6.1
Zimbabwe10 ..................................6.0
Mozambique10 ..............................4.9
Swaziland6 ....................................4.4
Mauritania ......................................4.4
Gambia, The8 ................................4.1
Madagascar10 ...............................4.1
Kenya9 ..........................................4.0
Burkina Faso10 ..............................3.9
Lesotho6........................................3.5
Burundi ..........................................3.2
Zambia1.........................................2.4
Chad10 ..........................................2.3
Tanzania ........................................2.1
Sierra Leone2 ................................2.1
Malawi10........................................0.8
Bahrain ..........................................n/a
Gabon ...........................................n/a
Germany ........................................n/a
Haiti ...............................................n/a
Seychelles......................................n/a

SOURCES: United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO Institute for Statistics Data Centre (accessed November 29, 2011); UNESCO,
UNESCO Science Report 2010: The Current Status of Science around the World; World Bank, World Development Indicators 2009; national sources
1 2000

2 2002

3 2003

4 2004

5 2005

6 2006

310 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

7 2007

8 2008

9 2009

10 2011

11 2012

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

2.08 Quality of management schools
How would you assess the quality of management or business schools in your country? [1 = poor; 7 = excellent—among the best in the
world] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.2

7

United Kingdom ......................... 6.1
Belgium ..................................... 6.0
Switzerland ................................ 6.0
Spain ......................................... 5.8
Canada ...................................... 5.7
Singapore .................................. 5.7
Qatar ......................................... 5.7
France ....................................... 5.6
Netherlands ............................... 5.6
Finland ....................................... 5.6
Sweden ..................................... 5.4
United States ............................. 5.4
Lebanon .................................... 5.4
Chile .......................................... 5.4
South Africa ............................... 5.3
Australia ..................................... 5.3
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.3
Iceland ....................................... 5.2
Costa Rica ................................. 5.2
New Zealand ............................. 5.2
Barbados ................................... 5.2
Portugal ..................................... 5.1
Ireland........................................ 5.1
Norway ...................................... 5.1
Denmark .................................... 5.1
Malaysia..................................... 5.0
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.0
Malta ......................................... 5.0
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.0
Cyprus ....................................... 5.0
Gambia, The .............................. 4.9
Germany .................................... 4.9
India........................................... 4.9
Argentina ................................... 4.9
Italy ............................................ 4.8
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.8
Austria ....................................... 4.8
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.8
Philippines ................................. 4.7
Israel .......................................... 4.7
Senegal ..................................... 4.7
Korea, Rep. ............................... 4.7
Guatemala ................................. 4.6
Puerto Rico................................ 4.6
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.6
Cameroon.................................. 4.5
Morocco .................................... 4.5
Estonia....................................... 4.5
Peru ........................................... 4.5
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 4.4
Mexico ....................................... 4.4
Brazil.......................................... 4.4
Benin ......................................... 4.4
Uruguay ..................................... 4.4
Jordan ....................................... 4.3
Kenya ........................................ 4.3
Lithuania .................................... 4.3
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.3
Montenegro ............................... 4.3
Luxembourg .............................. 4.3
Albania....................................... 4.3
Thailand ..................................... 4.3
Suriname ................................... 4.3
Guyana ...................................... 4.3
Ghana ........................................ 4.3
Slovenia ..................................... 4.3
Latvia ......................................... 4.2
China ......................................... 4.2
Liberia ........................................ 4.2
Indonesia ................................... 4.2
Pakistan ..................................... 4.2
Venezuela .................................. 4.2

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.2

7

Rwanda ..................................... 4.2
Colombia ................................... 4.1
Zambia ...................................... 4.1
Mauritius .................................... 4.1
Jamaica ..................................... 4.1
Zimbabwe .................................. 4.1
Bahrain ...................................... 4.1
Japan ........................................ 4.1
Hungary ..................................... 4.1
Panama ..................................... 4.1
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 4.1
Seychelles.................................. 4.0
Poland ....................................... 4.0
Nigeria ....................................... 3.9
Croatia ....................................... 3.9
Dominican Republic ................... 3.9
Uganda ...................................... 3.9
Madagascar ............................... 3.9
Bangladesh................................ 3.9
Botswana .................................. 3.9
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.9
Ecuador ..................................... 3.8
Czech Republic ......................... 3.8
Cambodia .................................. 3.8
Turkey........................................ 3.8
Nicaragua .................................. 3.8
El Salvador................................. 3.8
Malawi ....................................... 3.7
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.7
Kuwait ....................................... 3.7
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.7
Greece ....................................... 3.7
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.7
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.7
Oman ........................................ 3.6
Ethiopia...................................... 3.6
Honduras ................................... 3.6
Georgia ...................................... 3.6
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.6
Romania .................................... 3.5
Nepal ......................................... 3.5
Cape Verde ............................... 3.5
Russian Federation .................... 3.5
Serbia ........................................ 3.5
Ukraine ...................................... 3.4
Tanzania .................................... 3.4
Tajikistan .................................... 3.4
Bolivia ........................................ 3.4
Moldova ..................................... 3.3
Mali ............................................ 3.3
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.3
Paraguay ................................... 3.3
Vietnam ..................................... 3.2
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.2
Armenia ..................................... 3.2
Chad.......................................... 3.2
Namibia ..................................... 3.1
Gabon ....................................... 3.1
Algeria ....................................... 3.0
Mongolia .................................... 3.0
Mozambique .............................. 2.9
Lesotho ..................................... 2.8
Swaziland .................................. 2.8
Burundi ...................................... 2.8
Egypt ......................................... 2.8
Mauritania .................................. 2.7
Guinea ....................................... 2.7
Haiti ........................................... 2.7
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.7
Yemen ....................................... 2.4
Timor-Leste ............................... 2.3
Libya .......................................... 2.3

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 311

4: Data Tables

2.09 Government procurement of advanced technology products
Do government procurement decisions foster innovation in your country? [1 = no, not at all; 7 = yes, extremely effectively] | 2011–2012
weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.6

7

Qatar ......................................... 5.8
Singapore .................................. 5.3
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.0
Malaysia..................................... 4.9
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.8
Israel .......................................... 4.6
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.6
Luxembourg .............................. 4.6
Taiwan, China ............................ 4.6
Rwanda ..................................... 4.5
Panama ..................................... 4.5
Sweden ..................................... 4.5
Gambia, The .............................. 4.5
Finland ....................................... 4.5
United States ............................. 4.4
China ......................................... 4.4
Oman ........................................ 4.4
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.4
Azerbaijan .................................. 4.4
Bahrain ...................................... 4.4
Germany .................................... 4.3
Switzerland ................................ 4.3
Netherlands ............................... 4.2
Cambodia .................................. 4.1
Belgium ..................................... 4.1
Tajikistan .................................... 4.1
Liberia ........................................ 4.1
Norway ...................................... 4.1
Indonesia ................................... 4.0
Iceland ....................................... 4.0
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 4.0
Turkey........................................ 4.0
Korea, Rep. ............................... 4.0
Barbados ................................... 4.0
Estonia....................................... 4.0
Portugal ..................................... 4.0
Chile .......................................... 3.9
Seychelles.................................. 3.9
Vietnam ..................................... 3.9
Montenegro ............................... 3.9
Zambia ...................................... 3.9
Cape Verde ............................... 3.9
Cameroon.................................. 3.9
Malta ......................................... 3.9
United Kingdom ......................... 3.9
Albania....................................... 3.9
Canada ...................................... 3.8
Japan ........................................ 3.8
France ....................................... 3.8
Austria ....................................... 3.8
Senegal ..................................... 3.8
Colombia ................................... 3.8
Brazil.......................................... 3.8
Mali ............................................ 3.7
Cyprus ....................................... 3.7
Puerto Rico................................ 3.7
New Zealand ............................. 3.7
Australia ..................................... 3.7
Ethiopia...................................... 3.7
Ecuador ..................................... 3.7
Georgia ...................................... 3.7
Benin ......................................... 3.7
Denmark .................................... 3.7
Nigeria ....................................... 3.6
Botswana .................................. 3.6
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.6
Mexico ....................................... 3.6
Uganda ...................................... 3.6
Jordan ....................................... 3.6
Uruguay ..................................... 3.6
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.6
Morocco .................................... 3.6

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

312 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Tanzania .................................... 3.5
Mauritius .................................... 3.5
Costa Rica ................................. 3.5
Kenya ........................................ 3.5
Guinea ....................................... 3.5
Guyana ...................................... 3.5
Bolivia ........................................ 3.5
Ireland........................................ 3.5
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.4
Mauritania .................................. 3.4
India........................................... 3.4
Mozambique .............................. 3.4
Latvia ......................................... 3.4
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 3.4
Ghana ........................................ 3.4
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.4
Spain ......................................... 3.3
Namibia ..................................... 3.3
Malawi ....................................... 3.3
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.3
Dominican Republic ................... 3.3
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.3
Egypt ......................................... 3.3
Lithuania .................................... 3.2
Ukraine ...................................... 3.2
Thailand ..................................... 3.2
Peru ........................................... 3.2
Mongolia .................................... 3.2
Poland ....................................... 3.2
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.2
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.2
Honduras ................................... 3.1
South Africa ............................... 3.1
Slovenia ..................................... 3.1
Philippines ................................. 3.1
Armenia ..................................... 3.1
Pakistan ..................................... 3.1
Hungary ..................................... 3.1
Madagascar ............................... 3.1
Chad.......................................... 3.1
El Salvador................................. 3.1
Romania .................................... 3.1
Serbia ........................................ 3.1
Nicaragua .................................. 3.1
Gabon ....................................... 3.0
Libya .......................................... 3.0
Guatemala ................................. 3.0
Jamaica ..................................... 3.0
Italy ............................................ 2.9
Czech Republic ......................... 2.9
Kuwait ....................................... 2.9
Russian Federation .................... 2.9
Paraguay ................................... 2.9
Suriname ................................... 2.8
Slovak Republic ......................... 2.8
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 2.8
Croatia ....................................... 2.7
Greece ....................................... 2.7
Argentina ................................... 2.6
Nepal ......................................... 2.6
Lesotho ..................................... 2.6
Bangladesh................................ 2.6
Zimbabwe .................................. 2.6
Moldova ..................................... 2.6
Swaziland .................................. 2.5
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.4
Burundi ...................................... 2.4
Haiti ........................................... 2.3
Lebanon .................................... 2.3
Algeria ....................................... 2.2
Yemen ....................................... 2.1
Venezuela .................................. 2.0

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 3.6

7

Data Tables

3rd pillar
Infrastructure and
digital content

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

3.01 Electricity production
Electricity production (kWh) per capita | 2009

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Iceland1 ................................53,637.7
Norway1 ...............................25,372.8
Kuwait ..................................20,109.7
Canada1 ...............................17,522.8
Sweden1 ..............................16,291.6
Qatar ....................................15,519.2
Finland1 ................................14,982.0
United States1 ......................14,020.0
United Arab Emirates ............13,053.1
Australia1 ..............................11,488.7
Bahrain .................................10,308.0
New Zealand1.......................10,261.5
Korea, Rep.1 ..........................9,675.0
Estonia1 ..................................9,673.5
Taiwan, China .........................9,221.5
Brunei Darussalam ..................9,218.1
Belgium1.................................8,726.7
France1...................................8,722.7
Paraguay ................................8,666.0
Switzerland1 ...........................8,504.3
Japan1....................................8,405.8
Singapore ...............................8,381.0
Czech Republic1.....................8,110.6
Saudi Arabia ...........................8,097.3
Austria1 ..................................7,987.8
Slovenia1 ................................7,931.3
Germany1 ...............................7,509.1
Israel1 .....................................7,507.7
Russian Federation .................6,976.6
Denmark1 ...............................6,952.1
Netherlands1 ..........................6,905.3
Oman .....................................6,571.6
Spain1 ....................................6,409.7
Luxembourg1..........................6,377.3
Ireland1 ...................................6,315.5
United Kingdom1 ....................6,075.7
Trinidad and Tobago...............5,788.2
Bulgaria ..................................5,587.6
Puerto Rico.............................5,536.8
Hong Kong SAR .....................5,530.2
Greece1 ..................................5,370.0
Malta ......................................5,234.4
Serbia .....................................5,111.3
Slovak Republic1 ....................5,033.2
South Africa ............................5,004.3
Portugal1 ................................4,952.8
Kazakhstan .............................4,890.8
Italy1 .......................................4,877.7
Libya .......................................4,858.3
Cyprus ....................................4,793.3
Lithuania .................................4,384.8
Venezuela ...............................4,349.2
Bosnia and Herzegovina .........4,158.3
Montenegro ............................4,157.4
Poland1 ..................................4,111.0
Barbados1 ..............................3,793.9
Ukraine ...................................3,767.0
Malaysia..................................3,759.7
Hungary1 ................................3,737.5
Chile1 .....................................3,649.3
Macedonia, FYR .....................3,319.8
Lebanon .................................3,281.2
Suriname ................................3,083.5
Argentina ................................3,041.8
Turkey1 ...................................2,903.1
Croatia ....................................2,865.7
Seychelles...............................2,806.5
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................2,778.2
China ......................................2,776.0
Romania .................................2,688.1
Uruguay ..................................2,647.9
Latvia ......................................2,469.8

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Brazil.......................................2,413.8
Jordan ....................................2,412.8
Tajikistan .................................2,377.4
Mexico1 ..................................2,366.7
Mauritius .................................2,265.8
Thailand ..................................2,159.8
Azerbaijan ...............................2,108.9
Kyrgyz Republic ......................2,061.9
Jamaica ..................................2,052.6
Costa Rica ..............................2,023.6
Panama ..................................2,006.7
Georgia ...................................1,940.2
Armenia ..................................1,838.3
Egypt ......................................1,743.7
Albania....................................1,648.4
Mongolia .................................1,541.5
Dominican Republic ................1,529.3
Colombia ................................1,254.3
Peru ........................................1,229.1
Algeria ....................................1,223.7
Ecuador ..................................1,208.1
Gabon ....................................1,127.6
Guyana ...................................1,085.0
Moldova ..................................1,009.6
Vietnam .....................................967.1
El Salvador.................................939.5
Honduras ...................................883.1
Zambia ......................................810.1
Namibia .....................................777.0
India...........................................744.7
Mozambique ..............................742.1
Morocco ....................................676.5
Philippines .................................675.2
Indonesia ...................................654.8
Guatemala .................................644.2
Zimbabwe ..................................631.6
Bolivia ........................................626.1
Nicaragua ..................................604.7
Cape Verde ...............................563.4
Pakistan .....................................559.5
Sri Lanka ...................................483.3
Swaziland ..................................431.2
Ghana ........................................376.0
Côte d’Ivoire ..............................304.6
Cameroon..................................299.4
Yemen .......................................289.1
Bangladesh................................257.5
Senegal .....................................236.1
Botswana ..................................224.1
Kenya ........................................174.2
Gambia, The ..............................142.7
Mauritania ..................................140.3
Nigeria .......................................128.0
Malawi .......................................120.2
Timor-Leste2..............................112.0
Tanzania ....................................106.3
Nepal .........................................106.0
Guinea .........................................97.8
Lesotho .......................................93.1
Liberia ..........................................87.3
Cambodia ....................................86.3
Uganda ........................................75.5
Haiti .............................................73.1
Madagascar .................................67.1
Ethiopia........................................50.6
Burkina Faso................................41.6
Mali ..............................................34.9
Rwanda .......................................23.3
Sierra Leone ................................20.9
Burundi ........................................15.5
Benin ...........................................14.8
Chad..............................................8.7

SOURCES: The World Bank, World Development Indicators Online (accessed November 28, 2012); US Central Intelligence Agency (CIA), The World Factbook (accessed
November 28, 2012)
1 2010

2 2011

314 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

3.02 Mobile network coverage rate
Percentage of total population covered by a mobile network signal | 2011

RANK

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
24
24
24
27
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
28
37
38
38
40
41
41
41
41
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
51
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Azerbaijan ..................................100.0
Bahrain ......................................100.0
Chile ..........................................100.0
Croatia .......................................100.0
Hong Kong SAR ........................100.0
Indonesia ...................................100.0
Kuwait5......................................100.0
Lithuania5 ..................................100.0
Malta .........................................100.0
Montenegro5 .............................100.0
Namibia .....................................100.0
Nicaragua4 ................................100.0
Peru ...........................................100.0
Qatar .........................................100.0
Slovak Republic .........................100.0
Switzerland ................................100.0
Taiwan, China ............................100.0
Thailand .....................................100.0
Trinidad and Tobago5 ................100.0
Turkey5 ......................................100.0
Uganda ......................................100.0
United Arab Emirates .................100.0
Uruguay .....................................100.0
Brazil..........................................100.0
Bulgaria .....................................100.0
Estonia.......................................100.0
Cyprus .......................................100.0
Belgium .......................................99.9
Greece .........................................99.9
Japan ..........................................99.9
Korea, Rep. .................................99.9
Luxembourg5...............................99.9
Macedonia, FYR5 ........................99.9
Mexico .........................................99.9
Romania ......................................99.9
Ukraine ........................................99.9
Singapore ....................................99.9
Spain ...........................................99.8
United States5 .............................99.8
South Africa2 ...............................99.8
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............99.7
Egypt ...........................................99.7
Slovenia .......................................99.7
United Kingdom ...........................99.7
Czech Republic ...........................99.6
Poland .........................................99.5
Finland3 .......................................99.5
China4 .........................................99.5
Saudi Arabia ................................99.3
Georgia ........................................99.1
Albania.........................................99.0
Australia .......................................99.0
Austria .........................................99.0
Bangladesh..................................99.0
Barbados .....................................99.0
Benin ...........................................99.0
Cambodia4 ..................................99.0
Canada ........................................99.0
France .........................................99.0
Germany ......................................99.0
Hungary .......................................99.0
Iceland .........................................99.0
Ireland..........................................99.0
Israel ............................................99.0
Italy ..............................................99.0
Jordan .........................................99.0
Mauritius ......................................99.0
Morocco ......................................99.0
Philippines ...................................99.0
Portugal .......................................99.0
Sweden5 .....................................99.0
Armenia .......................................98.9

73
74
74
74
74
74
79
80
81
81
81
81
81
86
87
87
89
90
90
90
90
94
95
96
97
98
99
99
101
101
101
104
105
106
107
108
108
108
111
112
113
113
113
116
117
118
119
120
121
121
123
124
124
126
127
128
129
129
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Latvia2 .........................................98.8
Libya4 ..........................................98.0
Netherlands3 ...............................98.0
Oman ..........................................98.0
Seychelles....................................98.0
Sri Lanka5....................................98.0
Moldova2 .....................................98.0
Rwanda .......................................97.3
Denmark3 ....................................97.0
Guyana ........................................97.0
Kyrgyz Republic ...........................97.0
Lebanon ......................................97.0
New Zealand ...............................97.0
Malaysia.......................................96.2
Botswana ....................................96.0
Cape Verde .................................96.0
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................95.8
El Salvador2 .................................95.0
Jamaica2 .....................................95.0
Kazakhstan5 ................................95.0
Russian Federation1 ....................95.0
Swaziland ....................................94.9
Ecuador .......................................94.6
Argentina2 ...................................94.1
Paraguay5....................................94.0
Côte d’Ivoire ................................92.1
Pakistan .......................................92.0
Panama .......................................92.0
Nigeria .........................................90.0
Senegal .......................................90.0
Venezuela2 ..................................90.0
Honduras2 ...................................89.9
Kenya ..........................................89.1
Mongolia ......................................87.9
Serbia ..........................................87.4
Gambia, The2 ..............................85.0
Malawi .........................................85.0
Tanzania5 ....................................85.0
Ghana ..........................................84.9
Yemen5 .......................................84.0
Burundi4 ......................................83.0
Colombia1 ...................................83.0
India4 ...........................................83.0
Algeria2........................................81.5
Dominican Republic5 ...................81.2
Guinea3 .......................................80.0
Gabon2........................................79.0
Guatemala1 .................................76.0
Chad............................................75.0
Lesotho .......................................75.0
Zimbabwe ....................................72.4
Sierra Leone1 ..............................70.0
Vietnam1......................................70.0
Costa Rica4 .................................69.5
Timor-Leste3................................69.0
Puerto Rico4 ................................68.4
Mauritania3 ..................................62.0
Zambia ........................................62.0
Burkina Faso1 ..............................61.1
Cameroon1 ..................................58.0
Bolivia2 ........................................45.9
Nepal5 .........................................35.1
Madagascar1 ...............................23.0
Mali1 ............................................20.0
Ethiopia1 ......................................10.0
Liberia ............................................0.8
Brunei Darussalam .........................n/a
Haiti ...............................................n/a
Mozambique ..................................n/a
Norway ..........................................n/a
Suriname .......................................n/a
Tajikistan ........................................n/a

SOURCE:

International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition)

1 2006

2 2007

3 2008

4 2009

5 2010

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 315

4: Data Tables

3.03 International Internet bandwidth
International Internet bandwidth (kb/s) per Internet user | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Hong Kong SAR .....................1,046.3
Singapore ..................................343.7
Iceland .......................................287.1
Sweden .....................................244.4
Switzerland ................................167.6
United Kingdom .........................166.1
Netherlands ...............................162.5
Denmark ....................................159.5
Norway ......................................151.3
Puerto Rico3 ..............................135.4
Portugal .....................................135.3
Belgium .....................................131.1
Romania ....................................126.1
Finland .......................................118.4
Moldova .......................................91.1
Czech Republic ...........................91.1
Luxembourg ................................89.6
Montenegro .................................84.6
Austria .........................................81.9
France .........................................78.6
Serbia ..........................................76.8
Germany ......................................74.8
Bulgaria .......................................70.6
Canada ........................................70.2
Ireland..........................................69.0
Slovenia .......................................68.2
Spain ...........................................64.1
Italy ..............................................60.8
Lithuania ......................................57.6
Mongolia ......................................53.6
Cyprus .........................................53.6
Australia .......................................50.4
Malta ...........................................47.8
United States ...............................47.2
Latvia ...........................................44.8
Panama .......................................44.1
Poland .........................................40.2
Barbados .....................................38.2
Israel ............................................37.8
Costa Rica ...................................36.2
Taiwan, China ..............................34.6
Turkey..........................................33.9
Saudi Arabia ................................33.0
Uruguay .......................................32.1
Russian Federation ......................31.7
Jamaica .......................................29.5
Brazil............................................28.0
Ecuador .......................................27.7
United Arab Emirates ...................27.6
Georgia ........................................26.7
Greece .........................................26.0
Argentina .....................................25.7
Thailand .......................................24.6
Estonia.........................................24.4
New Zealand ...............................23.7
Japan ..........................................23.1
Qatar ...........................................22.3
Armenia .......................................22.2
Brunei Darussalam .......................22.0
Kazakhstan ..................................21.9
Chile ............................................20.4
Croatia .........................................19.9
Trinidad and Tobago....................19.8
Azerbaijan ....................................19.1
Albania.........................................19.0
South Africa .................................18.9
Côte d’Ivoire ................................18.0
Macedonia, FYR ..........................17.9
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............17.8
Korea, Rep. .................................17.2
Timor-Leste .................................17.1
Colombia .....................................16.8

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Bahrain ........................................14.7
Cambodia ....................................13.5
Nicaragua ....................................12.9
Mauritius ......................................12.7
Philippines ...................................12.4
Slovak Republic ...........................12.3
Hungary .......................................12.2
Dominican Republic .....................11.8
Libya ............................................11.0
Malaysia.......................................10.7
Suriname .....................................10.0
Vietnam .......................................10.0
Ukraine ..........................................9.8
Paraguay .......................................9.5
Peru ...............................................9.3
Algeria ...........................................8.9
Mexico ...........................................8.7
Botswana ......................................8.4
Pakistan .........................................8.2
Venezuela ......................................8.1
Morocco ........................................7.6
Indonesia .......................................7.2
Ethiopia..........................................7.0
Guatemala .....................................6.9
Jordan ...........................................6.3
Oman ............................................6.3
India...............................................6.3
Gabon ...........................................6.3
El Salvador.....................................6.0
Kuwait3..........................................6.0
Seychelles......................................5.9
Cape Verde ...................................5.8
Sri Lanka .......................................5.2
Mali ................................................4.9
Honduras .......................................4.9
Bolivia ............................................4.7
Guyana ..........................................4.5
Kenya ............................................4.5
Rwanda .........................................4.4
Uganda ..........................................4.2
Mauritania ......................................3.9
Egypt .............................................3.8
Malawi ...........................................3.8
Iran, Islamic Rep. ...........................3.5
Benin .............................................3.4
Senegal .........................................2.9
Lesotho .........................................2.8
China .............................................2.7
Namibia .........................................2.3
Swaziland ......................................2.3
Lebanon ........................................2.3
Burkina Faso..................................2.2
Burundi ..........................................1.9
Zambia ..........................................1.9
Zimbabwe ......................................1.7
Guinea ...........................................1.7
Kyrgyz Republic .............................1.7
Gambia, The ..................................1.6
Nepal .............................................1.5
Bangladesh....................................1.5
Mozambique ..................................1.2
Yemen ...........................................1.1
Tanzania ........................................0.9
Liberia ............................................0.6
Madagascar ...................................0.6
Tajikistan2 ......................................0.5
Nigeria ...........................................0.4
Cameroon......................................0.3
Chad..............................................0.2
Haiti1 .............................................0.2
Ghana ............................................0.2
Sierra Leone ..................................n/a

SOURCE:

International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition)

1 2004

2 2007

3 2010

316 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

3.04 Secure Internet servers
Secure Internet servers per million population | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Iceland ....................................3,025.1
Netherlands ............................2,749.8
Korea, Rep. ............................2,496.1
Denmark .................................2,180.7
Switzerland .............................2,137.5
Australia ..................................2,002.6
Luxembourg ...........................1,874.3
Norway ...................................1,810.6
Malta ......................................1,661.1
New Zealand ..........................1,597.4
United Kingdom ......................1,592.5
United States ..........................1,563.2
Finland ....................................1,486.7
Sweden ..................................1,451.4
Canada ...................................1,368.6
Seychelles...............................1,348.8
Ireland.....................................1,154.4
Cyprus ....................................1,121.3
Germany .................................1,023.4
Austria .......................................993.2
Japan ........................................743.9
Singapore ..................................607.3
Belgium .....................................599.6
Hong Kong SAR ........................570.5
Estonia.......................................532.8
Taiwan, China1 ..........................492.7
Israel ..........................................470.1
Slovenia .....................................433.2
Barbados ...................................401.6
Czech Republic .........................387.2
France .......................................354.1
Spain .........................................284.7
Poland .......................................269.7
Lithuania ....................................242.0
Croatia .......................................224.6
Portugal .....................................223.7
Hungary .....................................219.9
Latvia .........................................205.9
Italy ............................................190.9
United Arab Emirates .................180.3
Kuwait .......................................179.2
Slovak Republic .........................163.8
Greece .......................................154.4
Panama .....................................143.1
Turkey........................................142.5
Bulgaria .....................................139.1
Qatar .........................................126.2
Bahrain ......................................117.9
Mauritius ....................................116.6
Brunei Darussalam .....................113.3
Costa Rica .................................111.3
Puerto Rico................................105.5
Trinidad and Tobago....................85.4
South Africa .................................73.9
Uruguay .......................................70.4
Chile ............................................67.5
Malaysia.......................................54.4
Brazil............................................54.2
Romania ......................................53.7
Oman ..........................................53.4
Jamaica .......................................48.4
Lebanon ......................................41.1
Suriname .....................................34.0
Argentina .....................................33.6
Serbia ..........................................28.9
Macedonia, FYR ..........................28.6
Armenia .......................................27.7
Russian Federation ......................27.1
Mexico .........................................26.8
Montenegro .................................25.3
Jordan .........................................25.2
Saudi Arabia ................................21.5

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Colombia .....................................21.2
Dominican Republic .....................20.3
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............20.3
Namibia .......................................19.8
Ecuador .......................................19.7
Moldova .......................................19.7
Georgia ........................................18.7
Peru .............................................18.6
Ukraine ........................................17.7
El Salvador...................................16.9
Thailand .......................................16.6
Cape Verde .................................16.0
Swaziland ....................................15.0
Guatemala ...................................13.8
Albania.........................................13.7
Mongolia ......................................13.6
Nicaragua ....................................10.1
Paraguay .......................................9.7
Bolivia ............................................9.5
Guyana ..........................................9.3
Botswana ......................................8.9
Gabon ...........................................8.5
Venezuela ......................................8.1
Honduras .......................................7.7
Philippines .....................................7.5
Kazakhstan ....................................6.3
Sri Lanka .......................................6.0
Azerbaijan ......................................4.7
Vietnam .........................................4.7
Morocco ........................................4.3
Indonesia .......................................3.4
Kenya ............................................3.2
Egypt .............................................3.0
India...............................................2.9
Gambia, The ..................................2.8
Timor-Leste ...................................2.6
Kyrgyz Republic .............................2.5
Cambodia ......................................2.5
China .............................................2.4
Ghana ............................................2.2
Mauritania ......................................2.0
Nepal .............................................1.9
Nigeria ...........................................1.7
Zambia ..........................................1.6
Uganda ..........................................1.5
Senegal .........................................1.4
Libya ..............................................1.4
Zimbabwe ......................................1.3
Liberia ............................................1.2
Haiti ...............................................1.2
Mozambique ..................................1.1
Pakistan .........................................1.1
Cameroon......................................1.0
Iran, Islamic Rep. ...........................1.0
Mali ................................................0.9
Algeria ...........................................0.9
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................0.9
Rwanda .........................................0.9
Benin .............................................0.8
Sierra Leone ..................................0.7
Bangladesh....................................0.6
Burkina Faso..................................0.6
Tajikistan ........................................0.6
Madagascar ...................................0.5
Tanzania ........................................0.5
Guinea ...........................................0.5
Lesotho1........................................0.5
Yemen ...........................................0.4
Malawi ...........................................0.4
Ethiopia..........................................0.2
Burundi ..........................................0.1
Chad..............................................n/a

SOURCES: The World Bank, World Development Indicators Online (accessed November 28, 2012); national sources
1 2010

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 317

4: Data Tables

3.05 Accessibility of digital content
In your country, how accessible is digital content (e.g., text and audiovisual content, software products) via multiple platforms (e.g., fixed-line
Internet, wireless Internet, mobile network, satellite)? [1 = not accessible at all; 7 = widely accessible] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.9

7

United Kingdom ......................... 6.5
Netherlands ............................... 6.5
Iceland ....................................... 6.5
Switzerland ................................ 6.4
Finland ....................................... 6.4
Luxembourg .............................. 6.4
Singapore .................................. 6.4
Norway ...................................... 6.4
Austria ....................................... 6.3
Korea, Rep. ............................... 6.3
Estonia....................................... 6.3
Taiwan, China ............................ 6.3
Japan ........................................ 6.3
Sweden ..................................... 6.3
Belgium ..................................... 6.2
Canada ...................................... 6.2
Denmark .................................... 6.2
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 6.2
Malta ......................................... 6.2
Australia ..................................... 6.1
Czech Republic ......................... 6.1
Germany .................................... 6.1
United Arab Emirates ................. 6.1
Lithuania .................................... 6.1
United States ............................. 6.0
Hungary ..................................... 6.0
Qatar ......................................... 6.0
Barbados ................................... 6.0
Portugal ..................................... 6.0
Puerto Rico................................ 5.9
Bahrain ...................................... 5.9
New Zealand ............................. 5.9
Israel .......................................... 5.8
Slovenia ..................................... 5.8
Uruguay ..................................... 5.7
Spain ......................................... 5.6
Slovak Republic ......................... 5.6
France ....................................... 5.6
Latvia ......................................... 5.6
Malaysia..................................... 5.6
Ireland........................................ 5.5
Cyprus ....................................... 5.5
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.5
Ukraine ...................................... 5.4
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 5.4
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 5.4
Croatia ....................................... 5.4
Jordan ....................................... 5.4
Vietnam ..................................... 5.3
Mongolia .................................... 5.3
China ......................................... 5.3
Montenegro ............................... 5.3
Oman ........................................ 5.3
Kuwait ....................................... 5.3
Chile .......................................... 5.2
Costa Rica ................................. 5.2
Romania .................................... 5.2
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 5.2
Jamaica ..................................... 5.2
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 5.1
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 5.1
Turkey........................................ 5.1
Russian Federation .................... 5.1
Greece ....................................... 5.1
Seychelles.................................. 5.1
Moldova ..................................... 5.1
Kazakhstan ................................ 5.1
El Salvador................................. 5.1
Panama ..................................... 5.0
Georgia ...................................... 5.0
Azerbaijan .................................. 5.0
Bulgaria ..................................... 5.0

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

318 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Poland ....................................... 5.0
Philippines ................................. 4.9
Armenia ..................................... 4.9
Guyana ...................................... 4.9
Senegal ..................................... 4.9
Dominican Republic ................... 4.9
Gambia, The .............................. 4.9
Guatemala ................................. 4.9
Indonesia ................................... 4.9
Brazil.......................................... 4.9
Mauritius .................................... 4.8
Mexico ....................................... 4.8
South Africa ............................... 4.8
Argentina ................................... 4.8
Italy ............................................ 4.8
Kenya ........................................ 4.7
Tajikistan .................................... 4.7
Thailand ..................................... 4.7
India........................................... 4.6
Cambodia .................................. 4.6
Nigeria ....................................... 4.6
Colombia ................................... 4.6
Rwanda ..................................... 4.6
Morocco .................................... 4.5
Pakistan ..................................... 4.4
Venezuela .................................. 4.4
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.4
Egypt ......................................... 4.4
Cape Verde ............................... 4.4
Peru ........................................... 4.4
Botswana .................................. 4.4
Honduras ................................... 4.3
Namibia ..................................... 4.3
Paraguay ................................... 4.3
Serbia ........................................ 4.2
Albania....................................... 4.2
Ecuador ..................................... 4.2
Lebanon .................................... 4.2
Ghana ........................................ 4.2
Suriname ................................... 4.1
Malawi ....................................... 4.1
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.0
Bangladesh................................ 4.0
Nicaragua .................................. 4.0
Swaziland .................................. 3.9
Zambia ...................................... 3.9
Nepal ......................................... 3.8
Uganda ...................................... 3.8
Yemen ....................................... 3.8
Liberia ........................................ 3.8
Madagascar ............................... 3.7
Mauritania .................................. 3.7
Mozambique .............................. 3.7
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.6
Cameroon.................................. 3.6
Benin ......................................... 3.6
Bolivia ........................................ 3.6
Mali ............................................ 3.5
Libya .......................................... 3.5
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.5
Tanzania .................................... 3.4
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 3.4
Lesotho ..................................... 3.4
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.3
Algeria ....................................... 3.3
Haiti ........................................... 3.1
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.0
Ethiopia...................................... 3.0
Chad.......................................... 2.9
Burundi ...................................... 2.8
Guinea ....................................... 2.6
Gabon ....................................... 2.5

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.9

7

Data Tables

4th pillar
Affordability

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

4.01	 Mobile cellular tariffs
Average per-minute cost of different types of mobile cellular calls (PPP $) | 2011

	RANK	

COUNTRY/ECONOMY	

VALUE

	 1	Liberia...........................................0.00
	 2	Ukraine.........................................0.01
	 3	 Hong Kong SAR...........................0.02
	 4	Bangladesh...................................0.03
	 5	 Sri Lanka......................................0.04
	 6	India..............................................0.04
	 7	Norway.........................................0.04
	 8	Egypt............................................0.05
	 9	China............................................0.06
	10	Denmark.......................................0.06
	11	Nepal............................................0.07
	12	Pakistan........................................0.07
	13	Finland..........................................0.07
	14	Sweden........................................0.08
	15	Austria..........................................0.08
	16	Thailand........................................0.09
	 17	 United Arab Emirates....................0.09
	 18	 Costa Rica....................................0.09
	19	Ghana...........................................0.10
	20	Kenya...........................................0.11
	21	Mongolia.......................................0.11
	22	Cyprus..........................................0.12
	23	Iceland..........................................0.13
	24	Kuwait..........................................0.14
	25	Guinea2........................................0.14
	26	Qatar............................................0.15
	27	Ethiopia.........................................0.15
	28	Azerbaijan.....................................0.15
	29	Jordan..........................................0.15
	30	Zimbabwe.....................................0.15
	 31	 Kyrgyz Republic............................0.16
	32	Bahrain2.......................................0.16
	33	Germany.......................................0.16
	34	Oman...........................................0.16
	35	Armenia........................................0.17
	36	Turkey...........................................0.17
	37	Singapore.....................................0.17
	38	Guatemala....................................0.17
	39	Indonesia......................................0.17
	 40	 Saudi Arabia.................................0.17
	41	Serbia...........................................0.18
	42	Kazakhstan...................................0.19
	43	Malaysia........................................0.19
	44	Suriname2....................................0.19
	45	Poland..........................................0.19
	 46	 Russian Federation.......................0.19
	47	Mauritius.......................................0.19
	48	Haiti..............................................0.20
	49	Algeria..........................................0.20
	50	Yemen..........................................0.20
	51	Cambodia.....................................0.20
	52	Guyana2.......................................0.21
	53	Vietnam2.......................................0.21
	54	Latvia............................................0.22
	55	Panama........................................0.22
	56	Croatia..........................................0.24
	 57	 Iran, Islamic Rep.1........................0.24
	58	Georgia.........................................0.24
	59	Luxembourg.................................0.25
	60	Lithuania.......................................0.25
	61	Jamaica........................................0.26
	62	Paraguay......................................0.26
	 63	 El Salvador...................................0.26
	64	Uganda.........................................0.26
	65	Namibia........................................0.27
	66	Tajikistan.......................................0.27
	67	Portugal........................................0.27
	 68	 United States................................0.27
	69	Colombia......................................0.28
	70	Slovenia........................................0.28
	71	Italy...............................................0.29
	72	Chile.............................................0.29

	RANK	

COUNTRY/ECONOMY	

VALUE

	73	Philippines....................................0.29
	74	Israel.............................................0.30
	 75	 Côte d’Ivoire.................................0.30
	76	Moldova........................................0.31
	77	Hungary........................................0.31
	 78	 Trinidad and Tobago.....................0.32
	79	Senegal........................................0.32
	 80	 Gambia, The.................................0.32
	81	Rwanda........................................0.32
	 82	 Korea, Rep...................................0.33
	 83	 Bosnia and Herzegovina...............0.34
	 84	 Burkina Faso.................................0.35
	85	Estonia..........................................0.35
	86	Mauritania.....................................0.35
	87	Netherlands..................................0.36
	88	Cameroon.....................................0.36
	89	Ireland...........................................0.36
	90	Morocco.......................................0.36
	 91	 United Kingdom............................0.37
	92	Canada.........................................0.37
	93	Ecuador........................................0.37
	94	Uruguay........................................0.37
	95	Honduras......................................0.37
	96	Mali...............................................0.38
	97	Nigeria..........................................0.38
	98	Tanzania.......................................0.39
	99	Benin............................................0.39
	100	 Albania..........................................0.39
	101	 Botswana.....................................0.40
	102	 Mexico..........................................0.40
	103	 Madagascar..................................0.40
	104	 Barbados1....................................0.40
	 105	 Cape Verde..................................0.42
	 106	 Macedonia, FYR...........................0.42
	107	 Timor-Leste..................................0.43
	108	 Zambia.........................................0.43
	 109	 Dominican Republic......................0.44
	 110	 Brunei Darussalam2......................0.45
	111	 Bolivia...........................................0.46
	112	 Swaziland.....................................0.47
	113	 Mozambique.................................0.48
	 114	 Czech Republic............................0.50
	115	 Venezuela.....................................0.51
	116	 Gabon..........................................0.51
	 117	 South Africa..................................0.51
	118	 Montenegro..................................0.51
	 119	 Taiwan, China...............................0.53
	120	 Switzerland...................................0.53
	121	 Australia........................................0.54
	122	 Malta............................................0.54
	123	 Lebanon.......................................0.54
	124	 Romania.......................................0.57
	125	 Lesotho........................................0.57
	126	 France..........................................0.57
	127	 Belgium........................................0.58
	 128	 New Zealand................................0.58
	129	 Greece..........................................0.59
	130	 Brazil.............................................0.68
	131	 Seychelles.....................................0.74
	132	 Spain............................................0.75
	133	 Bulgaria........................................0.78
	 134	 Slovak Republic............................0.82
	135	 Chad.............................................0.83
	136	 Japan...........................................0.84
	137	 Argentina......................................0.86
	138	 Malawi..........................................0.90
	139	 Nicaragua.....................................0.96
	140	 Peru..............................................1.23
	n/a	 Burundi...........................................n/a
	n/a	 Libya...............................................n/a
	 n/a	 Puerto Rico.....................................n/a
	 n/a	 Sierra Leone...................................n/a

SOURCES:	 Authors’ calculations based on International Telecommunication Union, ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition);
International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook (October 2012 edition); World Bank, World Development Indicators Online (accessed November 29, 2012);
and national sources. See Technical Notes and Sources for more details.
1 2009   2 2010

320 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs
Monthly subscription charge for fixed (wired) broadband Internet service (PPP $) | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Israel ............................................8.11
Sri Lanka ...................................10.98
Cape Verde ...............................13.53
India...........................................14.75
Mongolia ....................................14.78
Ukraine ......................................15.10
Georgia ......................................15.29
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............15.68
Russian Federation ....................16.52
Lithuania ....................................16.56
Brazil..........................................16.58
Romania ....................................17.16
Egypt .........................................17.25
Taiwan, China ............................18.03
Venezuela ..................................18.27
Azerbaijan ..................................18.55
Bangladesh................................18.87
United Kingdom .........................19.05
Trinidad and Tobago..................19.16
Latvia .........................................19.28
Japan ........................................19.86
United States .............................19.95
Morocco ....................................19.98
Costa Rica .................................20.46
Zimbabwe ..................................20.53
Greece .......................................20.68
Turkey........................................20.80
Kuwait .......................................21.33
Moldova .....................................22.03
Uruguay .....................................22.11
Belgium .....................................22.13
Cyprus .......................................22.95
Mauritius ....................................22.95
Iceland .......................................23.23
Chad2 ........................................23.24
Switzerland ................................23.41
Canada ......................................24.71
Malta .........................................24.81
Chile ..........................................24.84
Italy ............................................25.51
Croatia .......................................25.82
Lebanon ....................................26.37
Albania.......................................26.37
Sweden .....................................26.70
Panama .....................................27.32
France .......................................27.56
Kazakhstan ................................28.00
Vietnam2....................................28.01
Mexico .......................................28.05
Finland .......................................28.85
China .........................................28.88
Bulgaria .....................................29.02
Jordan .......................................29.18
El Salvador.................................29.39
Estonia.......................................29.45
Yemen .......................................29.66
Indonesia ...................................29.70
Netherlands ...............................29.74
Oman ........................................29.74
Ireland........................................29.82
Algeria .......................................30.23
Hong Kong SAR ........................30.75
Poland .......................................31.52
Luxembourg ..............................31.55
Saudi Arabia ..............................31.72
Denmark ....................................31.85
Macedonia, FYR ........................32.08
Pakistan .....................................32.13
Paraguay ...................................32.43
Dominican Republic ...................32.53
Spain .........................................32.84
Portugal .....................................33.19

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Norway ......................................33.65
Bahrain2 ....................................34.65
Colombia ...................................34.81
Malaysia.....................................34.82
Hungary .....................................34.82
Austria .......................................35.33
Honduras ...................................35.39
Ghana ........................................35.71
Korea, Rep. ...............................36.52
New Zealand .............................36.72
Thailand .....................................36.79
Montenegro ...............................36.80
Armenia .....................................36.93
Singapore ..................................37.09
Argentina ...................................37.30
Germany ....................................37.39
South Africa ...............................37.48
Slovak Republic .........................37.62
Uganda ......................................38.88
Suriname2 .................................40.08
Serbia ........................................40.16
Australia .....................................40.24
Philippines .................................40.30
Slovenia .....................................41.06
Ecuador .....................................41.94
Jamaica .....................................42.65
United Arab Emirates .................42.85
Czech Republic .........................43.27
Guatemala .................................44.12
Nepal .........................................46.44
Nicaragua ..................................46.66
Botswana ..................................49.46
Barbados1 .................................50.44
Mauritania ..................................51.64
Peru ...........................................52.11
Qatar .........................................52.82
Guyana2 ....................................53.03
Bolivia ........................................54.67
Côte d’Ivoire ..............................63.98
Zambia ......................................64.61
Libya1 ........................................67.49
Senegal .....................................67.50
Ethiopia......................................70.62
Kenya ........................................71.60
Sierra Leone1 ............................71.76
Iran, Islamic Rep.1 .....................76.88
Cambodia ..................................78.72
Brunei Darussalam2 ...................81.20
Madagascar ...............................81.28
Mali ............................................82.18
Lesotho .....................................82.21
Tanzania ....................................82.37
Seychelles..................................90.19
Nigeria .....................................101.97
Mozambique ............................107.39
Benin .......................................107.58
Cameroon................................115.21
Burkina Faso............................120.00
Kyrgyz Republic .......................122.19
Namibia ...................................152.98
Timor-Leste .............................175.44
Rwanda ...................................232.09
Tajikistan ..................................868.84
Gambia, The ............................952.00
Swaziland .............................1,431.45
Malawi2 ................................1,463.32
Guinea2 ................................2,067.85
Burundi ..........................................n/a
Gabon ...........................................n/a
Haiti ...............................................n/a
Liberia ............................................n/a
Puerto Rico....................................n/a

SOURCES: Authors’ calculations based on International Telecommunication Union, ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition);
International Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook (October 2012 edition); World Bank, World Development Indicators Online (retrieved November 29, 2012);
and national sources. See Technical Notes and Sources for more details.
1 2009

2 2010
@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 321

4: Data Tables

4.03 Internet and telephony sectors competition index
Level of competition index for Internet services, international long distance services, and mobile telephone services on a 0-to-2 (best) scale |
As of 2011
RANK

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
58
59
59
61
61
63
64
65
65
67
68
68
68
71
71
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Argentina .....................................2.00
Austria .........................................2.00
Belgium .......................................2.00
Brazil............................................2.00
Canada ........................................2.00
Chile ............................................2.00
Colombia .....................................2.00
Croatia .........................................2.00
Dominican Republic .....................2.00
Ecuador .......................................2.00
El Salvador...................................2.00
Estonia.........................................2.00
France .........................................2.00
Gabon .........................................2.00
Georgia ........................................2.00
Germany ......................................2.00
Haiti .............................................2.00
Honduras .....................................2.00
Hong Kong SAR ..........................2.00
Iceland .........................................2.00
India.............................................2.00
Ireland..........................................2.00
Japan ..........................................2.00
Kenya ..........................................2.00
Kyrgyz Republic ...........................2.00
Lesotho .......................................2.00
Luxembourg ................................2.00
Madagascar .................................2.00
Malaysia.......................................2.00
Malta ...........................................2.00
Mauritania ....................................2.00
Mauritius ......................................2.00
Mexico .........................................2.00
Moldova .......................................2.00
Montenegro .................................2.00
Morocco ......................................2.00
Nepal ...........................................2.00
Netherlands .................................2.00
Nigeria .........................................2.00
Norway ........................................2.00
Pakistan .......................................2.00
Panama .......................................2.00
Paraguay .....................................2.00
Peru .............................................2.00
Philippines ...................................2.00
Portugal .......................................2.00
Romania ......................................2.00
Singapore ....................................2.00
Slovenia .......................................2.00
Spain ...........................................2.00
Sweden .......................................2.00
Switzerland ..................................2.00
Taiwan, China ..............................2.00
Turkey..........................................2.00
Uganda ........................................2.00
United States ...............................2.00
Venezuela ....................................2.00
Jordan .........................................1.94
Jamaica .......................................1.93
Rwanda .......................................1.93
Bahrain ........................................1.92
Lithuania ......................................1.92
Australia .......................................1.91
Denmark ......................................1.89
Cambodia ....................................1.88
Nicaragua ....................................1.88
Hungary .......................................1.88
Czech Republic ...........................1.87
Oman ..........................................1.87
Vietnam .......................................1.87
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............1.86
Ukraine ........................................1.86

71
74
75
75
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
83
85
85
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
98
100
101
102
103
104
105
105
107
107
109
109
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
118
118
121
122
123
123
123
123
127
127
129
130
131
132
132
134
135
135
137
138
139
140
140
140
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

United Kingdom ...........................1.86
Guatemala ...................................1.85
Cape Verde .................................1.83
Finland .........................................1.83
Slovak Republic ...........................1.82
Thailand .......................................1.82
Kazakhstan ..................................1.81
Greece .........................................1.80
Indonesia .....................................1.79
Zimbabwe ....................................1.79
Latvia ...........................................1.77
Poland .........................................1.77
Korea, Rep. .................................1.76
Senegal .......................................1.76
Liberia ..........................................1.75
Albania.........................................1.69
Guinea .........................................1.67
Zambia ........................................1.64
Costa Rica ...................................1.63
Italy ..............................................1.62
Russian Federation ......................1.60
Mongolia ......................................1.56
Burundi ........................................1.54
New Zealand ...............................1.53
Chad............................................1.50
Namibia .......................................1.43
Serbia ..........................................1.43
Ghana ..........................................1.42
Egypt ...........................................1.40
Cameroon....................................1.36
Bulgaria .......................................1.36
Azerbaijan ....................................1.35
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................1.33
Saudi Arabia ................................1.33
Algeria .........................................1.31
Cyprus .........................................1.31
China ...........................................1.29
Mozambique ................................1.29
Israel ............................................1.27
Botswana ....................................1.27
Bangladesh..................................1.25
Côte d’Ivoire ................................1.22
Armenia .......................................1.21
Barbados .....................................1.20
Mali ..............................................1.19
Gambia, The ................................1.13
Malawi .........................................1.13
South Africa .................................1.13
Suriname .....................................1.10
Seychelles....................................1.08
Macedonia, FYR ..........................1.00
Tanzania ......................................1.00
Trinidad and Tobago....................1.00
United Arab Emirates ...................1.00
Qatar ...........................................0.93
Sierra Leone ................................0.93
Sri Lanka .....................................0.88
Bolivia ..........................................0.80
Brunei Darussalam .......................0.78
Burkina Faso................................0.75
Uruguay .......................................0.75
Lebanon ......................................0.55
Benin ...........................................0.50
Guyana ........................................0.50
Yemen .........................................0.46
Kuwait .........................................0.23
Swaziland ....................................0.08
Ethiopia........................................0.00
Libya ............................................0.00
Tajikistan ......................................0.00
Puerto Rico....................................n/a
Timor-Leste ...................................n/a

Authors’ calculations based on  International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication Regulatory Database (accessed November 29, 2012).

322 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Data Tables

5th pillar
Skills

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

5.01 Quality of the educational system
How well does the educational system in your country meet the needs of a competitive economy? [1 = not well at all; 7 = very well] | 2011–
2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.7

7

Switzerland ................................ 6.0
Finland ....................................... 5.8
Singapore .................................. 5.8
Qatar ......................................... 5.7
Belgium ..................................... 5.4
Canada ...................................... 5.4
Barbados ................................... 5.4
Iceland ....................................... 5.4
Ireland........................................ 5.3
Lebanon .................................... 5.3
New Zealand ............................. 5.3
Sweden ..................................... 5.3
Netherlands ............................... 5.3
Malaysia..................................... 5.1
Australia ..................................... 5.0
Malta ......................................... 5.0
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.0
Norway ...................................... 5.0
Denmark .................................... 5.0
Germany .................................... 4.9
Costa Rica ................................. 4.9
Cyprus ....................................... 4.8
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 4.8
Taiwan, China ............................ 4.8
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.7
Austria ....................................... 4.7
United Kingdom ......................... 4.7
United States ............................. 4.7
Gambia, The .............................. 4.6
Zimbabwe .................................. 4.5
Jordan ....................................... 4.4
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.4
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.4
India........................................... 4.4
Bahrain ...................................... 4.4
Luxembourg .............................. 4.4
Kenya ........................................ 4.3
Montenegro ............................... 4.2
Zambia ...................................... 4.2
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.2
France ....................................... 4.2
Guyana ...................................... 4.2
Japan ........................................ 4.2
Korea, Rep. ............................... 4.1
Philippines ................................. 4.1
Mauritius .................................... 4.1
Indonesia ................................... 4.1
Seychelles.................................. 4.1
Estonia....................................... 4.1
Rwanda ..................................... 4.1
Puerto Rico................................ 4.0
Albania....................................... 4.0
Israel .......................................... 4.0
Lithuania .................................... 4.0
Botswana .................................. 4.0
Liberia ........................................ 4.0
China ......................................... 3.9
Cambodia .................................. 3.9
Czech Republic ......................... 3.9
Oman ........................................ 3.9
Portugal ..................................... 3.8
Ghana ........................................ 3.8
Slovenia ..................................... 3.8
Cape Verde ............................... 3.8
Malawi ....................................... 3.8
Cameroon.................................. 3.7
Tajikistan .................................... 3.7
Poland ....................................... 3.7
Uganda ...................................... 3.7
Ukraine ...................................... 3.6
Benin ......................................... 3.6
Vietnam ..................................... 3.6

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

324 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Senegal ..................................... 3.6
Latvia ......................................... 3.6
Pakistan ..................................... 3.6
Jamaica ..................................... 3.6
Colombia ................................... 3.6
Thailand ..................................... 3.5
Armenia ..................................... 3.5
Tanzania .................................... 3.5
Spain ......................................... 3.5
Turkey........................................ 3.5
Nigeria ....................................... 3.5
Suriname ................................... 3.4
Ethiopia...................................... 3.4
Russian Federation .................... 3.4
Italy ............................................ 3.4
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.4
Argentina ................................... 3.4
Hungary ..................................... 3.4
Chile .......................................... 3.4
Nepal ......................................... 3.4
Ecuador ..................................... 3.3
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.3
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 3.3
Bolivia ........................................ 3.3
Bangladesh................................ 3.2
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.2
Croatia ....................................... 3.2
Mexico ....................................... 3.2
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.2
Lesotho ..................................... 3.2
Moldova ..................................... 3.2
Kuwait ....................................... 3.1
Morocco .................................... 3.1
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.1
Uruguay ..................................... 3.1
Romania .................................... 3.1
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.1
Swaziland .................................. 3.1
Serbia ........................................ 3.1
Panama ..................................... 3.0
Chad.......................................... 3.0
Georgia ...................................... 3.0
Greece ....................................... 3.0
Brazil.......................................... 3.0
Madagascar ............................... 3.0
Mali ............................................ 2.9
Mozambique .............................. 2.9
Slovak Republic ......................... 2.8
Nicaragua .................................. 2.8
Venezuela .................................. 2.8
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.8
Burkina Faso.............................. 2.8
Sierra Leone .............................. 2.8
Namibia ..................................... 2.7
Gabon ....................................... 2.7
Guinea ....................................... 2.7
Timor-Leste ............................... 2.7
Guatemala ................................. 2.6
Algeria ....................................... 2.5
Peru ........................................... 2.5
Paraguay ................................... 2.5
El Salvador................................. 2.5
Honduras ................................... 2.4
Mongolia .................................... 2.4
Dominican Republic ................... 2.4
Mauritania .................................. 2.3
Egypt ......................................... 2.3
South Africa ............................... 2.2
Haiti ........................................... 2.1
Libya .......................................... 2.0
Burundi ...................................... 2.0
Yemen ....................................... 1.8

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 3.7

7

4: Data Tables

5.02 Quality of math and science education
How would you assess the quality of math and science education in your country’s schools? [1 = poor; 7 = excellent—among the best in the
world] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.9

7

Singapore .................................. 6.3
Finland ....................................... 6.2
Belgium ..................................... 6.2
Lebanon .................................... 5.9
Switzerland ................................ 5.8
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.6
Barbados ................................... 5.6
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.5
Qatar ......................................... 5.5
New Zealand ............................. 5.5
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.4
Netherlands ............................... 5.4
Cyprus ....................................... 5.3
Canada ...................................... 5.3
Malta ......................................... 5.2
Lithuania .................................... 5.2
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.2
Slovenia ..................................... 5.1
Estonia....................................... 5.0
Malaysia..................................... 5.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 5.0
Iceland ....................................... 5.0
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.9
Australia ..................................... 4.9
France ....................................... 4.9
Croatia ....................................... 4.8
Japan ........................................ 4.8
Jordan ....................................... 4.7
Germany .................................... 4.7
India........................................... 4.7
Ireland........................................ 4.7
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.6
China ......................................... 4.6
Ukraine ...................................... 4.6
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.6
Sweden ..................................... 4.6
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.5
Denmark .................................... 4.5
Hungary ..................................... 4.5
Albania....................................... 4.5
Costa Rica ................................. 4.5
United Kingdom ......................... 4.5
Austria ....................................... 4.4
Montenegro ............................... 4.4
Indonesia ................................... 4.4
Luxembourg .............................. 4.3
United States ............................. 4.3
Latvia ......................................... 4.3
Mauritius .................................... 4.3
Zimbabwe .................................. 4.3
Benin ......................................... 4.3
Russian Federation .................... 4.3
Morocco .................................... 4.3
Greece ....................................... 4.2
Romania .................................... 4.2
Bahrain ...................................... 4.2
Norway ...................................... 4.2
Vietnam ..................................... 4.1
Poland ....................................... 4.1
Serbia ........................................ 4.1
Thailand ..................................... 4.1
Rwanda ..................................... 4.1
Mongolia .................................... 4.1
Moldova ..................................... 4.1
Italy ............................................ 4.1
Botswana .................................. 4.1
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 4.1
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.0
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.0
Guyana ...................................... 4.0
Armenia ..................................... 4.0
Seychelles.................................. 4.0

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.9

7

Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 4.0
Gambia, The .............................. 4.0
Cameroon.................................. 3.9
Kenya ........................................ 3.9
Zambia ...................................... 3.9
Czech Republic ......................... 3.8
Senegal ..................................... 3.8
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.8
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.8
Madagascar ............................... 3.8
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.8
Puerto Rico................................ 3.8
Suriname ................................... 3.8
Oman ........................................ 3.7
Liberia ........................................ 3.7
Pakistan ..................................... 3.7
Israel .......................................... 3.7
Cambodia .................................. 3.7
Tajikistan .................................... 3.7
Nigeria ....................................... 3.6
Ghana ........................................ 3.6
Portugal ..................................... 3.6
Nepal ......................................... 3.6
Malawi ....................................... 3.6
Spain ......................................... 3.6
Philippines ................................. 3.6
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.5
Turkey........................................ 3.5
Georgia ...................................... 3.5
Ecuador ..................................... 3.5
Bolivia ........................................ 3.5
Kuwait ....................................... 3.4
Ethiopia...................................... 3.4
Guinea ....................................... 3.4
Colombia ................................... 3.4
Cape Verde ............................... 3.4
Uganda ...................................... 3.4
Swaziland .................................. 3.2
Chad.......................................... 3.2
Burundi ...................................... 3.2
Bangladesh................................ 3.2
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.1
Argentina ................................... 3.1
Jamaica ..................................... 3.0
Chile .......................................... 3.0
Uruguay ..................................... 3.0
Lesotho ..................................... 3.0
Venezuela .................................. 2.9
Mali ............................................ 2.8
Tanzania .................................... 2.8
Gabon ....................................... 2.8
Mexico ....................................... 2.8
Panama ..................................... 2.8
Mauritania .................................. 2.7
Namibia ..................................... 2.7
Nicaragua .................................. 2.7
Algeria ....................................... 2.7
Haiti ........................................... 2.6
Mozambique .............................. 2.6
Brazil.......................................... 2.6
El Salvador................................. 2.5
Sierra Leone .............................. 2.5
Libya .......................................... 2.4
Timor-Leste ............................... 2.4
Guatemala ................................. 2.4
Honduras ................................... 2.3
Egypt ......................................... 2.3
Paraguay ................................... 2.2
Peru ........................................... 2.1
Dominican Republic ................... 2.1
South Africa ............................... 2.0
Yemen ....................................... 1.9

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 325

4: Data Tables

5.03 Secondary enrollment rate
Secondary education gross enrollment rate (%) | 2010

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Australia .....................................131.3
Spain .........................................124.7
Netherlands ...............................121.5
Ireland........................................121.0
Seychelles..................................119.2
New Zealand .............................119.1
Denmark ....................................118.7
France .......................................113.2
Brunei Darussalam8 ...................111.8
Norway ......................................111.0
Belgium .....................................110.5
Libya4 ........................................110.3
Greece .......................................109.5
Portugal .....................................109.1
Iceland .......................................108.0
Finland .......................................107.5
Singapore ..................................107.0
Estonia.......................................106.6
Brazil3 ........................................105.8
United Kingdom .........................105.3
Oman8.......................................104.1
Barbados8 .................................103.7
Germany ....................................103.3
Bahrain4 ....................................103.1
Japan ........................................102.2
Israel ..........................................102.1
Kazakhstan9 ..............................101.9
Qatar8........................................101.7
Canada7 ....................................101.5
Costa Rica8 ...............................101.5
Luxembourg ..............................101.2
Kuwait6......................................101.0
Malta .........................................100.9
Saudi Arabia ..............................100.6
Italy ............................................100.4
Sri Lanka ...................................100.2
Hungary .....................................100.1
Taiwan, China8 ..........................100.0
Sweden .......................................99.2
Austria .........................................98.9
Cyprus .........................................98.8
Lithuania ......................................98.7
Colombia8 ...................................97.5
Slovenia .......................................97.3
Romania ......................................97.2
Korea, Rep. .................................97.1
Poland .........................................97.0
Azerbaijan5 ..................................96.9
Montenegro8 ...............................96.8
United States ...............................96.0
Croatia .........................................95.7
Switzerland ..................................95.4
Latvia ...........................................95.2
Algeria7........................................94.9
Ukraine8 ......................................94.0
South Africa7 ...............................93.8
Guyana8 ......................................93.3
Jamaica .......................................92.7
Mongolia8 ....................................92.6
United Arab Emirates4 .................92.3
Serbia8 ........................................91.5
Peru8 ...........................................91.2
Albania8 .......................................90.9
Mauritius8 ....................................90.9
Uruguay .......................................90.4
Slovak Republic ...........................90.4
Czech Republic ...........................90.3
Trinidad and Tobago6 ..................89.9
Cape Verde8................................89.7
Chile ............................................89.4
Bosnia and Herzegovina8 ............89.3
Bulgaria .......................................88.9

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Mexico .........................................88.8
Armenia8 .....................................88.7
Russian Federation7 ....................88.6
Argentina7 ...................................88.5
Tajikistan8 ....................................88.5
Kyrgyz Republic8 .........................88.2
Ecuador .......................................87.8
Moldova8 .....................................87.7
Jordan .........................................86.9
Georgia7 ......................................86.2
Iran, Islamic Rep.8 .......................85.7
Philippines7..................................84.8
Macedonia, FYR ..........................83.7
Venezuela8 ..................................83.5
Lebanon8.....................................83.3
Turkey..........................................82.1
Botswana7...................................81.7
China ...........................................81.2
Bolivia6 ........................................81.0
Hong Kong SAR8 ........................80.1
Thailand8 .....................................79.2
Vietnam .......................................77.2
Puerto Rico8 ................................77.2
Indonesia .....................................77.2
Dominican Republic8 ...................76.1
Suriname7 ...................................74.8
Honduras8 ...................................74.3
Panama8 .....................................73.6
Egypt ...........................................72.5
Nicaragua ....................................69.4
Malaysia7 .....................................68.3
Paraguay .....................................67.9
El Salvador8 .................................67.6
Guatemala ...................................64.5
Namibia5 .....................................64.0
India.............................................63.2
Kenya7 ........................................60.2
Ghana9 ........................................59.2
Swaziland ....................................58.1
Timor-Leste .................................56.3
Morocco5 ....................................56.1
Gambia, The ................................54.1
Gabon2........................................53.1
Benin8 .........................................51.4
Bangladesh..................................51.4
Cameroon8 ..................................51.3
Cambodia8 ..................................46.6
Lesotho .......................................46.4
Yemen8 .......................................45.8
Zambia6.......................................45.6
Liberia8 ........................................44.8
Nigeria .........................................44.0
Nepal4 .........................................43.5
Senegal8......................................42.1
Guinea8 .......................................41.7
Zimbabwe4 ..................................41.0
Mali8 ............................................39.5
Ethiopia8 ......................................37.6
Rwanda8 .....................................35.8
Pakistan8 .....................................35.0
Malawi8 .......................................34.2
Madagascar7 ...............................31.1
Tanzania ......................................29.9
Uganda ........................................28.1
Burundi8 ......................................28.0
Sierra Leone1 ..............................27.6
Côte d’Ivoire2 ..............................27.1
Mozambique8 ..............................26.4
Chad8 ..........................................25.4
Mauritania ....................................24.4
Burkina Faso8 ..............................22.6
Haiti ...............................................n/a

SOURCES: United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO Institute for Statistics Data Centre (accessed November 29, 2012); UNESCO,
UNESCO Science Report 2010: The Current Status of Science around the World; national sources
1 2001

2 2002

3 2005

4 2006

5 2007

6 2008

326 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

7 2009

8 2011

9 2012

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

5.04 Adult literacy rate
Adult literacy rate (%) | 2010

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
15
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Estonia.........................................99.8
Latvia ...........................................99.8
Azerbaijan5 ..................................99.8
Georgia ........................................99.7
Ukraine ........................................99.7
Lithuania ......................................99.7
Kazakhstan ..................................99.7
Tajikistan ......................................99.7
Slovenia .......................................99.7
Russian Federation ......................99.6
Armenia .......................................99.6
Poland .........................................99.5
Kyrgyz Republic5 .........................99.2
Hungary .......................................99.0
Australia*......................................99.0
Austria* ........................................99.0
Belgium* ......................................99.0
Canada*.......................................99.0
Czech Republic* ..........................99.0
Denmark*.....................................99.0
Finland*........................................99.0
France* ........................................99.0
Germany*.....................................99.0
Iceland*........................................99.0
Ireland* ........................................99.0
Israel*...........................................99.0
Japan* .........................................99.0
Korea, Rep.* ................................99.0
Luxembourg* ...............................99.0
Netherlands* ................................99.0
New Zealand* ..............................99.0
Norway* .......................................99.0
Slovak Republic* ..........................99.0
Sweden* ......................................99.0
Switzerland* .................................99.0
United Kingdom*..........................99.0
United States* ..............................99.0
Italy ..............................................98.9
Croatia .........................................98.8
Trinidad and Tobago....................98.8
Chile5 ..........................................98.6
Moldova .......................................98.5
Montenegro .................................98.4
Bulgaria6......................................98.4
Cyprus .........................................98.3
Uruguay .......................................98.1
Taiwan, China6 ............................98.0
Serbia ..........................................97.9
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............97.9
Argentina .....................................97.8
Spain ...........................................97.7
Romania ......................................97.7
Mongolia ......................................97.4
Macedonia, FYR ..........................97.3
Greece .........................................97.2
Qatar ...........................................96.3
Costa Rica ...................................96.2
Albania4 .......................................95.9
Singapore ....................................95.9
Venezuela5 ..................................95.5
Philippines4..................................95.4
Brunei Darussalam .......................95.2
Portugal .......................................95.2
Suriname .....................................94.7
China ...........................................94.3
Panama .......................................94.1
Kuwait4........................................93.9
Paraguay .....................................93.9
Thailand1 .....................................93.5
Colombia .....................................93.4
Vietnam .......................................93.2
Malaysia.......................................93.1

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Mexico .........................................93.1
Indonesia5 ...................................92.6
Jordan .........................................92.6
Malta1..........................................92.4
Zimbabwe ....................................92.2
Bahrain ........................................91.9
Ecuador .......................................91.9
Seychelles....................................91.8
Sri Lanka .....................................91.2
Bolivia5 ........................................91.2
Turkey5 ........................................90.8
Puerto Rico..................................90.4
Brazil5 ..........................................90.3
United Arab Emirates1 .................90.0
Lesotho .......................................89.6
Lebanon3.....................................89.6
Peru3 ...........................................89.6
Dominican Republic .....................89.5
Libya ............................................89.2
Namibia .......................................88.8
South Africa3 ...............................88.7
Mauritius ......................................88.5
Gabon .........................................88.4
Swaziland ....................................87.4
Kenya ..........................................87.4
Oman4.........................................86.6
Jamaica .......................................86.6
Saudi Arabia ................................86.6
Iran, Islamic Rep.4 .......................85.0
Honduras .....................................84.8
El Salvador...................................84.5
Botswana ....................................84.5
Cape Verde .................................84.3
Nicaragua1 ..................................78.0
Guatemala ...................................75.2
Malawi .........................................74.8
Cambodia5 ..................................73.9
Uganda ........................................73.2
Tanzania ......................................73.2
Algeria2........................................72.6
Egypt ...........................................72.0
Zambia ........................................71.2
Rwanda .......................................71.1
Cameroon3 ..................................70.7
Ghana ..........................................67.3
Burundi ........................................67.2
Madagascar5 ...............................64.5
Yemen .........................................63.9
India2 ...........................................62.8
Nigeria .........................................61.3
Liberia ..........................................60.8
Nepal ...........................................60.3
Timor-Leste .................................58.3
Mauritania ....................................58.0
Bangladesh..................................56.8
Côte d’Ivoire ................................56.2
Mozambique ................................56.1
Morocco5 ....................................56.1
Pakistan5 .....................................54.9
Gambia, The ................................50.0
Senegal5......................................49.7
Haiti2 ...........................................48.7
Benin ...........................................42.4
Sierra Leone ................................42.1
Guinea .........................................41.0
Ethiopia3 ......................................39.0
Chad............................................34.5
Mali ..............................................31.1
Burkina Faso3 ..............................28.7
Barbados .......................................n/a
Guyana ..........................................n/a
Hong Kong SAR ............................n/a

* Assumed value
SOURCES: United Nations Education, Science and Culture Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO Institute for Statistics Data Centre (accessed November 29, 2012); national
sources. See Technical Notes and Sources for details.
1 2005

2 2006

3 2007

4 2008

5 2009

6 2011
@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 327

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Data Tables

6th pillar
Individual usage

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

6.01 Mobile telephone subscriptions
Mobile telephone subscriptions (post-paid and pre-paid) per 100 population | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Hong Kong SAR ........................214.7
Saudi Arabia ..............................191.2
Panama .....................................188.6
Montenegro1 .............................185.3
Russian Federation ....................179.3
Suriname ...................................178.9
Kuwait .......................................175.1
Oman ........................................169.0
Finland .......................................166.0
Italy ............................................157.9
Kazakhstan ................................155.7
Libya ..........................................155.7
Austria .......................................154.8
Lithuania ....................................151.3
Singapore ..................................150.2
United Arab Emirates .................148.6
Luxembourg ..............................148.3
Seychelles..................................145.7
Vietnam .....................................143.4
Botswana ..................................142.8
Uruguay .....................................140.8
Bulgaria .....................................140.7
Guatemala .................................140.4
Estonia.......................................139.0
Trinidad and Tobago..................135.6
Argentina ...................................134.9
El Salvador.................................133.5
Germany ....................................132.3
Switzerland ................................131.4
Poland .......................................131.0
United Kingdom .........................130.8
Chile ..........................................129.7
Denmark ....................................128.5
Bahrain ......................................128.0
Malaysia.....................................127.0
Barbados ...................................127.0
South Africa ...............................126.8
Serbia ........................................125.4
Malta .........................................124.9
Brazil..........................................124.3
Taiwan, China ............................124.1
Czech Republic .........................123.4
Qatar .........................................123.1
Ukraine ......................................123.0
Israel ..........................................121.7
Sweden .....................................118.6
Jordan .......................................118.2
Gabon .......................................117.3
Hungary .....................................117.3
Belgium .....................................116.6
Kyrgyz Republic .........................116.4
Croatia .......................................116.4
Norway ......................................115.6
Netherlands1 .............................115.4
Portugal .....................................115.4
Morocco ....................................113.3
Spain .........................................113.2
Thailand .....................................111.6
Peru ...........................................110.4
Slovak Republic .........................109.3
New Zealand .............................109.2
Brunei Darussalam .....................109.2
Romania ....................................109.2
Azerbaijan ..................................108.7
Korea, Rep. ...............................108.5
Ireland........................................108.4
Australia .....................................108.3
Jamaica .....................................108.1
Macedonia, FYR ........................107.2
Slovenia .....................................106.6
Greece .......................................106.5
Iceland .......................................106.1

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Mongolia ....................................105.1
Japan ........................................105.0
Moldova .....................................104.8
Ecuador .....................................104.5
Honduras ...................................104.0
Armenia .....................................103.6
Indonesia ...................................103.1
Latvia .........................................102.9
Georgia ......................................102.3
Egypt .........................................101.1
Paraguay .....................................99.4
Philippines ...................................99.3
Mauritius ......................................99.0
Algeria .........................................99.0
Colombia .....................................98.5
Venezuela ....................................97.8
Cyprus .........................................97.7
Albania.........................................96.4
Namibia .......................................96.4
Cambodia ....................................96.2
France .........................................94.8
Mauritania ....................................93.6
United States ...............................92.7
Costa Rica ...................................92.2
Tajikistan ......................................90.6
Turkey..........................................88.7
Dominican Republic .....................87.2
Sri Lanka .....................................87.0
Côte d’Ivoire ................................86.1
Benin ...........................................85.3
Ghana ..........................................84.8
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............84.5
Puerto Rico..................................83.0
Bolivia ..........................................82.8
Mexico .........................................82.4
Nicaragua ....................................82.2
Canada ........................................79.7
Cape Verde .................................79.2
Gambia, The ................................78.9
Lebanon ......................................78.6
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................74.9
Senegal .......................................73.3
China ...........................................73.2
Zimbabwe ....................................72.1
India.............................................72.0
Guyana ........................................69.9
Mali ..............................................68.3
Kenya ..........................................67.5
Swaziland ....................................63.7
Pakistan .......................................61.6
Zambia ........................................60.6
Nigeria .........................................58.6
Lesotho .......................................56.2
Bangladesh..................................56.1
Tanzania ......................................55.5
Timor-Leste .................................53.2
Cameroon....................................52.4
Liberia ..........................................49.2
Uganda ........................................48.4
Yemen .........................................47.0
Burkina Faso................................45.3
Guinea .........................................44.0
Nepal ...........................................43.8
Haiti .............................................41.5
Madagascar .................................40.7
Rwanda .......................................40.6
Sierra Leone ................................35.6
Mozambique ................................32.8
Chad............................................31.8
Malawi .........................................25.7
Burundi ........................................22.3
Ethiopia........................................16.7

International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition)

1 2010

330 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

6.02 Internet users
Percentage of individuals using the Internet | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
12
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
28
30
31
32
33
34
34
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
54
56
57
57
59
60
61
62
62
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Iceland .........................................95.0
Norway ........................................94.0
Netherlands .................................92.3
Sweden .......................................91.0
Luxembourg ................................90.9
Denmark ......................................90.0
Finland .........................................89.4
Qatar ...........................................86.2
New Zealand ...............................86.0
Switzerland ..................................85.2
Korea, Rep. .................................83.8
Canada ........................................83.0
Germany ......................................83.0
United Kingdom ...........................82.0
Austria .........................................79.8
France .........................................79.6
Japan ..........................................79.5
Australia .......................................79.0
Belgium .......................................78.0
United States ...............................77.9
Bahrain ........................................77.0
Ireland..........................................76.8
Estonia.........................................76.5
Hong Kong SAR ..........................74.5
Slovak Republic ...........................74.4
Kuwait .........................................74.2
Czech Republic ...........................73.0
Slovenia .......................................72.0
Taiwan, China ..............................72.0
Barbados .....................................71.8
Latvia ...........................................71.7
Singapore ....................................71.0
Croatia .........................................70.7
Israel ............................................70.0
United Arab Emirates ...................70.0
Malta ...........................................69.2
Oman ..........................................68.0
Spain ...........................................67.6
Lithuania ......................................65.1
Poland .........................................64.9
Malaysia.......................................61.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............60.0
Hungary .......................................59.0
Cyprus .........................................57.7
Italy ..............................................56.8
Macedonia, FYR ..........................56.7
Brunei Darussalam .......................56.0
Portugal .......................................55.3
Trinidad and Tobago....................55.2
Chile ............................................53.9
Greece .........................................53.0
Lebanon ......................................52.0
Uruguay .......................................51.4
Bulgaria .......................................51.0
Morocco ......................................51.0
Azerbaijan ....................................50.0
Albania.........................................49.0
Russian Federation ......................49.0
Puerto Rico..................................48.0
Argentina .....................................47.7
Saudi Arabia ................................47.5
Brazil............................................45.0
Kazakhstan ..................................45.0
Romania ......................................44.0
Seychelles....................................43.2
Panama .......................................42.7
Serbia ..........................................42.2
Costa Rica ...................................42.1
Turkey..........................................42.1
Colombia .....................................40.4
Venezuela ....................................40.2
Montenegro .................................40.0

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
83
83
83
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
96
98
98
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
113
115
116
117
118
119
120
120
122
123
124
124
126
126
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
134
136
137
138
138
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Egypt ...........................................38.7
China ...........................................38.3
Moldova .......................................38.0
Georgia ........................................36.6
Peru .............................................36.5
Mexico .........................................36.2
Dominican Republic .....................35.5
Vietnam .......................................35.1
Mauritius ......................................35.0
Jordan .........................................34.9
Armenia .......................................32.0
Cape Verde .................................32.0
Guyana ........................................32.0
Suriname .....................................32.0
Jamaica .......................................31.5
Ecuador .......................................31.4
Ukraine ........................................30.6
Bolivia ..........................................30.0
Philippines ...................................29.0
Nigeria .........................................28.4
Kenya ..........................................28.0
Paraguay .....................................23.9
Thailand .......................................23.7
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................21.0
South Africa .................................21.0
Kyrgyz Republic ...........................20.0
Mongolia ......................................20.0
Swaziland ....................................18.1
Indonesia .....................................18.0
El Salvador...................................17.7
Senegal .......................................17.5
Libya ............................................17.0
Honduras .....................................15.9
Zimbabwe ....................................15.7
Sri Lanka .....................................15.0
Yemen .........................................14.9
Ghana ..........................................14.1
Algeria .........................................14.0
Tajikistan ......................................13.0
Uganda ........................................13.0
Namibia .......................................12.0
Tanzania ......................................12.0
Guatemala ...................................11.7
Zambia ........................................11.5
Gambia, The ................................10.9
Nicaragua ....................................10.6
India.............................................10.1
Nepal .............................................9.0
Pakistan .........................................9.0
Haiti2 .............................................8.4
Gabon ...........................................8.0
Botswana ......................................7.0
Rwanda .........................................7.0
Bangladesh....................................5.0
Cameroon......................................5.0
Mauritania ......................................4.5
Mozambique ..................................4.3
Lesotho .........................................4.2
Benin .............................................3.5
Malawi ...........................................3.3
Cambodia ......................................3.1
Burkina Faso..................................3.0
Liberia ............................................3.0
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................2.2
Mali ................................................2.0
Chad..............................................1.9
Madagascar ...................................1.9
Guinea ...........................................1.3
Burundi ..........................................1.1
Ethiopia..........................................1.1
Timor-Leste ...................................0.9
Sierra Leone1 ................................0.3

SOURCE:

International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition)

1 2009

2 2010

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 331

4: Data Tables

6.03 Households with a personal computer
Percentage of households equipped with a personal computer | 2010

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Iceland6 .......................................94.7
Netherlands6 ...............................94.2
Luxembourg6...............................91.7
Sweden6 .....................................91.6
Norway6 ......................................91.0
Denmark6 ....................................90.4
Bahrain6 ......................................90.0
Qatar6..........................................88.3
Taiwan, China6 ............................87.5
Germany6 ....................................86.9
Switzerland ..................................86.9
Singapore6 ..................................86.1
Finland6 .......................................85.1
United Kingdom6 .........................84.6
Canada ........................................83.9
New Zealand ...............................83.9
Japan ..........................................83.4
Australia6 .....................................82.6
Korea, Rep.6 ...............................81.9
Ireland6 ........................................80.6
Brunei Darussalam .......................79.6
Israel6 ..........................................79.0
Belgium6......................................78.9
France6........................................78.2
Austria6 .......................................78.1
Hong Kong SAR ..........................77.9
Malta6..........................................76.4
United Arab Emirates ...................76.0
United States ...............................75.5
Slovak Republic6 .........................75.4
Slovenia6 .....................................74.4
Spain6 .........................................71.5
Lebanon6.....................................71.5
Estonia6 .......................................71.4
Poland6 .......................................71.3
Czech Republic6..........................69.9
Hungary6 .....................................69.7
Kuwait6........................................69.0
Italy6 ............................................66.2
Latvia6 .........................................64.3
Malaysia6 .....................................64.1
Cyprus6 .......................................63.9
Portugal6 .....................................63.7
Lithuania6 ....................................61.8
Barbados .....................................61.4
Croatia .........................................60.0
Oman6.........................................58.0
Saudi Arabia ................................57.3
Greece6 .......................................57.2
Russian Federation6 ....................57.1
Puerto Rico..................................55.0
Macedonia, FYR ..........................53.6
Trinidad and Tobago....................53.1
Uruguay .......................................52.8
Romania6 ....................................51.2
Serbia ..........................................50.9
Jordan6 .......................................50.8
Turkey6 ........................................48.5
Argentina .....................................47.0
Chile ............................................46.8
Bulgaria6......................................46.8
Montenegro6 ...............................46.6
Kazakhstan ..................................46.0
Brazil6 ..........................................45.4
Costa Rica6 .................................45.3
Seychelles6 ..................................45.0
Morocco6 ....................................39.0
Mauritius6 ....................................38.2
Moldova .......................................36.9
Egypt6 .........................................36.4
China ...........................................35.4
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................33.7

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
87
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
123
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............33.7
Suriname6 ...................................32.3
Mexico6 .......................................30.0
Colombia6 ...................................29.9
Panama6 .....................................29.0
Ecuador6 .....................................28.8
Bolivia6 ........................................27.0
Ukraine ........................................25.2
Thailand6 .....................................24.7
Peru .............................................23.0
Paraguay6....................................22.7
Jamaica .......................................22.7
Mongolia ......................................22.3
Azerbaijan ....................................21.5
Algeria .........................................20.0
Armenia .......................................20.0
Dominican Republic6 ...................18.9
South Africa .................................18.3
Georgia ........................................18.2
Venezuela ....................................17.3
Vietnam6......................................16.0
Guatemala ...................................15.8
Albania.........................................15.6
El Salvador...................................13.3
Philippines ...................................13.1
Namibia6 .....................................13.0
Honduras .....................................12.9
Sri Lanka .....................................12.3
Indonesia6 ...................................12.0
Cape Verde .................................11.3
Swaziland ....................................10.7
Nigeria6 .........................................9.3
Ghana ............................................9.1
Nicaragua ......................................8.2
Pakistan3 .......................................8.1
Gabon ...........................................7.6
Libya2 ............................................7.6
Guyana ..........................................7.2
Botswana ......................................6.5
India...............................................6.1
Zimbabwe6 ....................................5.9
Haiti ...............................................5.9
Gambia, The ..................................5.7
Senegal .........................................5.7
Cameroon......................................5.4
Lesotho .........................................5.0
Malawi ...........................................4.5
Cambodia ......................................4.3
Nepal .............................................4.2
Kenya ............................................4.1
Mozambique4 ................................4.0
Tanzania6 ......................................4.0
Kyrgyz Republic .............................4.0
Yemen ...........................................4.0
Bangladesh....................................3.1
Mali ................................................3.0
Mauritania ......................................3.0
Tajikistan ........................................2.9
Burundi5 ........................................2.6
Benin .............................................2.5
Zambia ..........................................2.4
Burkina Faso..................................2.1
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................1.8
Guinea ...........................................1.5
Ethiopia..........................................1.4
Madagascar ...................................1.4
Rwanda .........................................1.3
Uganda3 ........................................1.2
Liberia5 ..........................................1.0
Sierra Leone1 ................................0.8
Chad4 ............................................0.4
Timor-Leste ...................................n/a

SOURCES: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition) and ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2011 (December 2011 edition); national sources
1 2005

2 2006

3 2007

4 2008

5 2009

6 2011

332 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

6.04 Households with Internet access
Percentage of households with Internet access at home | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
17
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
29
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
62
64
65
66
66
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Korea, Rep. .................................97.2
Netherlands .................................93.6
Iceland .........................................92.6
Norway ........................................92.2
Sweden .......................................90.6
Luxembourg ................................90.6
Denmark ......................................90.1
United Kingdom ...........................85.1
Switzerland5 ................................85.0
Singapore ....................................84.8
Finland .........................................84.2
Qatar ...........................................83.6
Germany ......................................83.3
Taiwan, China ..............................82.5
Japan5.........................................81.3
New Zealand5..............................79.0
Australia .......................................78.9
Canada5 ......................................78.9
Ireland..........................................78.1
Bahrain ........................................76.8
Belgium .......................................76.5
Hong Kong SAR5 ........................76.4
France .........................................75.9
Austria .........................................75.4
Malta ...........................................75.3
Slovenia .......................................72.6
United States5 .............................71.6
Israel ............................................71.0
Estonia.........................................70.8
Slovak Republic ...........................70.8
United Arab Emirates ...................67.0
Poland .........................................66.6
Czech Republic ...........................66.6
Hungary .......................................65.2
Brunei Darussalam5 .....................65.0
Spain ...........................................63.9
Latvia ...........................................63.6
Lithuania ......................................61.8
Lebanon ......................................61.8
Italy ..............................................61.6
Croatia .........................................61.4
Malaysia.......................................61.4
Portugal .......................................58.0
Kuwait .........................................57.7
Cyprus .........................................57.4
Saudi Arabia5 ..............................54.4
Montenegro .................................51.4
Barbados5 ...................................51.0
Greece .........................................50.2
Puerto Rico5 ................................50.0
Romania ......................................47.4
Macedonia, FYR5 ........................46.1
Russian Federation ......................46.0
Bulgaria .......................................45.0
Kazakhstan5 ................................44.0
Turkey..........................................42.9
Serbia5 ........................................40.2
Oman ..........................................38.9
Brazil............................................37.8
Mauritius ......................................36.4
Jordan .........................................35.4
Azerbaijan5 ..................................35.3
Morocco ......................................35.3
Chile5 ..........................................35.0
Moldova5 .....................................34.7
Argentina5 ...................................34.0
Seychelles....................................34.0
Costa Rica ...................................33.6
Uruguay5 .....................................33.3
Egypt ...........................................30.5
China5 .........................................23.7
Colombia .....................................23.4

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
106
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
122
122
125
126
126
128
129
130
130
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Mexico .........................................23.3
Bosnia and Herzegovina5 ............23.0
Ukraine5 ......................................22.2
Iran, Islamic Rep.5 .......................20.8
Panama .......................................20.7
Paraguay .....................................19.3
Trinidad and Tobago3 ..................18.6
Suriname .....................................17.5
Ecuador .......................................16.9
Georgia5 ......................................16.6
Peru5 ...........................................14.0
Jamaica5 .....................................14.0
Albania5 .......................................13.7
Armenia5 .....................................13.6
Thailand .......................................13.4
Vietnam5......................................12.5
Dominican Republic .....................11.8
Venezuela5 ..................................11.0
Philippines5..................................10.1
Algeria5........................................10.0
Namibia .......................................10.0
South Africa ...................................9.8
Bolivia ............................................9.4
Libya5 ............................................9.2
El Salvador5 ...................................8.0
Pakistan5 .......................................8.0
Mongolia5 ......................................7.7
Indonesia .......................................7.0
Honduras5 .....................................6.8
Guyana5 ........................................6.1
Gabon5..........................................6.0
Sri Lanka5......................................5.9
Nigeria ...........................................4.6
Senegal5........................................4.5
Tanzania ........................................4.5
India5 .............................................4.2
Zimbabwe ......................................4.0
Swaziland5 ....................................3.6
Kyrgyz Republic5 ...........................3.6
Rwanda5 .......................................3.2
Yemen5 .........................................2.9
Malawi5 .........................................2.9
Burundi4 ........................................2.7
Haiti5 .............................................2.7
Bangladesh5 ..................................2.6
Cape Verde3..................................2.5
Kenya2 ..........................................2.2
Guatemala1 ...................................2.1
Zambia5.........................................2.0
Botswana3.....................................2.0
Burkina Faso5 ................................2.0
Gambia, The3 ................................2.0
Nicaragua4 ....................................2.0
Cameroon3 ....................................1.3
Lesotho5........................................1.3
Mali5 ..............................................1.2
Côte d’Ivoire5 ................................1.1
Guinea5 .........................................1.0
Mauritania3 ....................................1.0
Nepal3 ...........................................1.0
Mozambique2 ................................0.9
Madagascar3 .................................0.7
Ghana2 ..........................................0.3
Cambodia3 ....................................0.2
Tajikistan5 ......................................0.2
Uganda3 ........................................0.2
Chad3 ............................................0.1
Ethiopia2 ........................................0.1
Benin .............................................n/a
Liberia ............................................n/a
Sierra Leone ..................................n/a
Timor-Leste ...................................n/a

SOURCES: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition) and ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2011 (December 2011 edition); national sources
1 2006

2 2007

3 2008

4 2009

5 2010

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 333

4: Data Tables

6.05 Fixed broadband Internet subscriptions
Fixed broadband Internet subscriptions per 100 population | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Switzerland ..................................40.0
Netherlands .................................38.7
Denmark ......................................37.6
Korea, Rep. .................................36.9
France .........................................36.0
Norway ........................................35.4
Iceland .........................................33.9
Germany ......................................33.1
Belgium .......................................33.0
Luxembourg ................................32.9
United Kingdom ...........................32.7
Canada ........................................31.8
Sweden .......................................31.8
Hong Kong SAR ..........................31.6
Malta ...........................................30.9
Finland .........................................29.5
Japan ..........................................27.6
United States ...............................27.4
New Zealand ...............................25.8
Singapore ....................................25.6
Austria .........................................25.4
Israel ............................................24.8
Estonia.........................................24.8
Slovenia .......................................24.3
Australia .......................................24.3
Spain ...........................................23.8
Taiwan, China ..............................23.7
Hungary .......................................22.2
Barbados .....................................22.1
Lithuania ......................................22.1
Italy ..............................................22.1
Ireland..........................................22.0
Greece .........................................21.6
Portugal .......................................21.0
Latvia ...........................................20.4
Croatia .........................................19.6
Cyprus .........................................18.9
Bulgaria .......................................16.4
Czech Republic ...........................15.8
Romania ......................................15.2
Puerto Rico..................................14.9
Poland .........................................14.7
Bahrain ........................................13.8
Slovak Republic ...........................13.6
Uruguay .......................................13.5
Russian Federation ......................13.1
Macedonia, FYR ..........................12.6
China ...........................................11.6
Chile ............................................11.6
Trinidad and Tobago....................11.5
Serbia ..........................................11.3
United Arab Emirates ...................11.0
Azerbaijan ....................................10.7
Argentina .....................................10.5
Seychelles....................................10.4
Turkey..........................................10.3
Mexico .........................................10.2
Moldova .......................................10.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina ................9.7
Mauritius ........................................8.9
Costa Rica .....................................8.7
Qatar .............................................8.7
Brazil..............................................8.6
Montenegro2 .................................8.3
Panama .........................................7.9
Georgia ..........................................7.5
Malaysia.........................................7.4
Kazakhstan ....................................7.4
Ukraine ..........................................7.0
Colombia .......................................6.9
Venezuela ......................................6.2
Brunei Darussalam .........................5.7

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
143

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Saudi Arabia ..................................5.6
Lebanon ........................................5.2
Thailand .........................................5.0
Armenia .........................................5.0
Suriname .......................................4.6
Cape Verde ...................................4.3
Vietnam .........................................4.3
Ecuador .........................................4.2
Peru ...............................................4.0
Dominican Republic .......................4.0
Albania...........................................4.0
Jamaica .........................................3.9
El Salvador.....................................3.3
Mongolia ........................................3.2
Jordan ...........................................3.2
Algeria ...........................................2.8
Guyana ..........................................2.6
Iran, Islamic Rep. ...........................2.4
Egypt .............................................2.2
Philippines .....................................1.9
Oman ............................................1.8
Morocco ........................................1.8
Guatemala2 ...................................1.8
South Africa ...................................1.8
Sri Lanka .......................................1.7
Kuwait2..........................................1.7
Nicaragua ......................................1.4
Indonesia .......................................1.1
Libya ..............................................1.1
India...............................................1.1
Paraguay .......................................0.9
Namibia .........................................0.8
Botswana ......................................0.8
Senegal .........................................0.7
Kyrgyz Republic .............................0.7
Bolivia ............................................0.7
Yemen ...........................................0.4
Honduras .......................................0.4
Pakistan .........................................0.4
Bangladesh....................................0.3
Nepal .............................................0.3
Gabon ...........................................0.3
Zimbabwe ......................................0.3
Ghana ............................................0.3
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................0.2
Swaziland ......................................0.2
Mauritania ......................................0.2
Cambodia ......................................0.2
Nigeria ...........................................0.1
Uganda ..........................................0.1
Kenya ............................................0.1
Burkina Faso..................................0.1
Tajikistan ........................................0.1
Mozambique ..................................0.1
Malawi ...........................................0.1
Lesotho .........................................0.1
Zambia ..........................................0.1
Timor-Leste ...................................0.0
Benin .............................................0.0
Rwanda .........................................0.0
Madagascar ...................................0.0
Gambia, The ..................................0.0
Mali ................................................0.0
Tanzania ........................................0.0
Guinea ...........................................0.0
Cameroon......................................0.0
Ethiopia..........................................0.0
Burundi2 ........................................0.0
Liberia ............................................0.0
Chad..............................................0.0
Haiti ...............................................0.0
Sierra Leone1 ................................0.0

SOURCE:

International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition)

1 2007

2 2010

334 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

6.06 Mobile broadband Internet subscriptions
Mobile broadband Internet subscriptions per 100 population | 2011

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Singapore ..................................114.1
Korea, Rep. ...............................105.1
Japan ........................................101.3
Sweden .......................................91.5
Finland .........................................87.1
Denmark ......................................80.2
Barbados .....................................77.1
Norway ........................................76.5
United States ...............................74.5
Australia .......................................73.0
Qatar ...........................................70.3
Luxembourg ................................66.7
Ireland..........................................59.4
Iceland .........................................57.0
Hong Kong SAR ..........................55.2
New Zealand ...............................53.1
United Kingdom ...........................52.6
Poland .........................................49.6
Netherlands .................................49.2
Russian Federation ......................47.9
Czech Republic ...........................43.4
Taiwan, China ..............................42.7
Austria .........................................42.6
Estonia.........................................42.0
Spain ...........................................41.6
Israel ............................................40.6
Saudi Arabia ................................40.4
Greece .........................................39.9
Kazakhstan ..................................38.4
Canada ........................................38.4
Oman ..........................................37.8
Latvia ...........................................37.6
France1........................................36.6
Switzerland ..................................35.6
Croatia .........................................34.9
Germany ......................................34.8
Serbia ..........................................34.5
Italy ..............................................33.3
Malta ...........................................32.6
Slovak Republic ...........................31.9
Cyprus .........................................30.8
Bulgaria .......................................29.9
Slovenia .......................................29.3
Portugal .......................................27.4
Armenia .......................................25.9
Egypt ...........................................24.0
Ghana ..........................................23.0
Indonesia .....................................22.2
United Arab Emirates ...................21.7
Azerbaijan ....................................21.5
Uruguay .......................................21.5
Georgia ........................................21.3
Brazil............................................20.9
Namibia .......................................20.9
South Africa .................................19.8
Belgium .......................................19.4
Macedonia, FYR ..........................18.1
Vietnam .......................................18.0
Chile ............................................18.0
Mongolia ......................................17.3
Lithuania ......................................17.2
Venezuela ....................................16.1
Montenegro .................................15.3
Zimbabwe ....................................14.9
Puerto Rico..................................14.7
Panama .......................................14.5
Romania ......................................14.1
Mauritius ......................................12.5
Malaysia.......................................12.3
Hungary .......................................11.9
Botswana ....................................11.8
Argentina .....................................11.7

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
126
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Ecuador .......................................10.3
Nigeria .........................................10.0
Bahrain ..........................................9.5
China .............................................9.5
Bosnia and Herzegovina ................9.2
Albania...........................................8.8
Turkey............................................8.8
Morocco ........................................8.0
Dominican Republic .......................7.7
Mexico ...........................................6.5
Brunei Darussalam .........................6.3
Jordan ...........................................4.9
Mauritania ......................................4.9
Seychelles......................................4.7
Ukraine ..........................................4.4
Paraguay .......................................4.4
Guatemala .....................................4.1
Colombia .......................................3.7
Honduras .......................................3.7
El Salvador.....................................3.6
Moldova .........................................3.5
Philippines .....................................3.4
Malawi ...........................................3.1
Cape Verde ...................................3.0
Uganda ..........................................2.8
Bolivia ............................................2.8
Sri Lanka .......................................2.3
Cambodia ......................................2.2
Costa Rica .....................................2.0
India...............................................1.9
Lesotho1........................................1.7
Jamaica .........................................1.5
Senegal .........................................1.5
Peru ...............................................1.4
Tanzania ........................................1.2
Trinidad and Tobago......................1.2
Mozambique ..................................1.0
Rwanda .........................................1.0
Nicaragua ......................................0.8
Swaziland ......................................0.7
Gambia, The ..................................0.5
Ethiopia..........................................0.3
Mali ................................................0.3
Kenya ............................................0.3
Zambia ..........................................0.2
Pakistan .........................................0.2
Thailand .........................................0.1
Yemen ...........................................0.1
Nepal1 ...........................................0.1
Madagascar ...................................0.1
Lebanon ........................................0.0
Bangladesh....................................0.0
Liberia ............................................0.0
Algeria ...........................................0.0
Benin .............................................0.0
Burkina Faso..................................0.0
Burundi ..........................................0.0
Cameroon......................................0.0
Chad..............................................0.0
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................0.0
Gabon ...........................................0.0
Guinea ...........................................0.0
Guyana ..........................................0.0
Haiti ...............................................0.0
Iran, Islamic Rep. ...........................0.0
Suriname .......................................0.0
Timor-Leste ...................................0.0
Kuwait ...........................................n/a
Kyrgyz Republic .............................n/a
Libya ..............................................n/a
Sierra Leone ..................................n/a
Tajikistan ........................................n/a

International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition)

1 2010

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 335

4: Data Tables

6.07 Use of virtual social networks
How widely used are virtual social networks (e.g., Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn) for professional and personal communications in your
country? [1 = not used at all; 7 = used widely] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 5.3

7

Iceland ....................................... 6.6
United Kingdom ......................... 6.6
Netherlands ............................... 6.4
Malta ......................................... 6.4
Sweden ..................................... 6.4
Norway ...................................... 6.4
Estonia....................................... 6.4
Finland ....................................... 6.3
Puerto Rico................................ 6.3
Canada ...................................... 6.3
Qatar ......................................... 6.3
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 6.2
New Zealand ............................. 6.2
Switzerland ................................ 6.2
Bahrain ...................................... 6.2
United States ............................. 6.2
Australia ..................................... 6.2
Singapore .................................. 6.2
Belgium ..................................... 6.2
Austria ....................................... 6.2
United Arab Emirates ................. 6.2
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 6.1
Luxembourg .............................. 6.1
France ....................................... 6.1
Panama ..................................... 6.1
Barbados ................................... 6.1
Philippines ................................. 6.0
Lithuania .................................... 6.0
Denmark .................................... 6.0
Malaysia..................................... 6.0
Chile .......................................... 6.0
Ireland........................................ 6.0
Korea, Rep. ............................... 6.0
Israel .......................................... 6.0
Czech Republic ......................... 6.0
Jordan ....................................... 5.9
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.9
Egypt ......................................... 5.9
Portugal ..................................... 5.9
Montenegro ............................... 5.9
Azerbaijan .................................. 5.9
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 5.8
Costa Rica ................................. 5.8
Venezuela .................................. 5.8
Morocco .................................... 5.8
Germany .................................... 5.8
Brazil.......................................... 5.8
Argentina ................................... 5.8
Cyprus ....................................... 5.7
Guyana ...................................... 5.7
Indonesia ................................... 5.7
Seychelles.................................. 5.7
Slovak Republic ......................... 5.7
Kuwait ....................................... 5.7
Jamaica ..................................... 5.7
Uruguay ..................................... 5.7
El Salvador................................. 5.6
Dominican Republic ................... 5.6
Spain ......................................... 5.6
Georgia ...................................... 5.6
Italy ............................................ 5.6
Lebanon .................................... 5.6
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 5.6
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.5
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 5.5
Albania....................................... 5.5
Latvia ......................................... 5.5
Armenia ..................................... 5.4
Slovenia ..................................... 5.4
Senegal ..................................... 5.4
Turkey........................................ 5.4
Thailand ..................................... 5.4

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

336 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Romania .................................... 5.4
Japan ........................................ 5.4
Colombia ................................... 5.4
Mauritius .................................... 5.4
Hungary ..................................... 5.4
Guatemala ................................. 5.3
Mexico ....................................... 5.3
Nigeria ....................................... 5.3
Oman ........................................ 5.3
Bulgaria ..................................... 5.3
Moldova ..................................... 5.3
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 5.3
Mongolia .................................... 5.3
South Africa ............................... 5.3
Greece ....................................... 5.2
Algeria ....................................... 5.2
Kenya ........................................ 5.2
Croatia ....................................... 5.2
Madagascar ............................... 5.2
Ukraine ...................................... 5.2
Honduras ................................... 5.2
Cape Verde ............................... 5.2
Zambia ...................................... 5.2
India........................................... 5.1
Gambia, The .............................. 5.1
Peru ........................................... 5.1
Russian Federation .................... 5.1
Ghana ........................................ 5.1
Swaziland .................................. 5.1
Benin ......................................... 5.0
Botswana .................................. 5.0
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 4.9
Namibia ..................................... 4.9
Paraguay ................................... 4.9
Cambodia .................................. 4.9
China ......................................... 4.9
Liberia ........................................ 4.9
Suriname ................................... 4.9
Haiti ........................................... 4.8
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.8
Ecuador ..................................... 4.8
Pakistan ..................................... 4.8
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.8
Vietnam ..................................... 4.7
Libya .......................................... 4.7
Poland ....................................... 4.7
Cameroon.................................. 4.7
Malawi ....................................... 4.7
Gabon ....................................... 4.7
Zimbabwe .................................. 4.6
Bangladesh................................ 4.5
Guinea ....................................... 4.5
Nicaragua .................................. 4.4
Nepal ......................................... 4.4
Mauritania .................................. 4.4
Rwanda ..................................... 4.4
Mali ............................................ 4.3
Uganda ...................................... 4.3
Lesotho ..................................... 4.3
Tajikistan .................................... 4.3
Tanzania .................................... 4.2
Serbia ........................................ 4.2
Burkina Faso.............................. 4.1
Timor-Leste ............................... 4.1
Mozambique .............................. 4.1
Yemen ....................................... 4.0
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.9
Bolivia ........................................ 3.9
Chad.......................................... 3.5
Ethiopia...................................... 3.4
Burundi ...................................... 3.3
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.1

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 5.3

7

Data Tables

7th pillar
Business usage

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

7.01 Firm-level technology absorption
To what extent do businesses in your country absorb new technology? [1 = not at all; 7 = aggressively absorb] | 2011–2012 weighted
average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.8

7

Sweden ..................................... 6.3
Iceland ....................................... 6.3
Switzerland ................................ 6.2
Japan ........................................ 6.2
Israel .......................................... 6.2
Finland ....................................... 6.1
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 6.0
Singapore .................................. 6.0
Qatar ......................................... 6.0
Norway ...................................... 6.0
Korea, Rep. ............................... 6.0
United Arab Emirates ................. 6.0
Austria ....................................... 5.9
United States ............................. 5.9
Australia ..................................... 5.9
Germany .................................... 5.9
New Zealand ............................. 5.9
Denmark .................................... 5.8
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.8
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.8
Bahrain ...................................... 5.8
Netherlands ............................... 5.8
United Kingdom ......................... 5.7
Luxembourg .............................. 5.6
Panama ..................................... 5.6
Puerto Rico................................ 5.6
Portugal ..................................... 5.6
Jordan ....................................... 5.6
Malaysia..................................... 5.6
Canada ...................................... 5.6
Belgium ..................................... 5.6
Malta ......................................... 5.5
Ireland........................................ 5.5
Estonia....................................... 5.5
France ....................................... 5.5
Senegal ..................................... 5.5
Barbados ................................... 5.4
South Africa ............................... 5.4
Turkey........................................ 5.3
India........................................... 5.2
Kuwait ....................................... 5.2
Sri Lanka ................................... 5.2
Cyprus ....................................... 5.2
Chile .......................................... 5.2
Guatemala ................................. 5.2
Philippines ................................. 5.2
Brazil.......................................... 5.2
Spain ......................................... 5.1
Czech Republic ......................... 5.1
Costa Rica ................................. 5.1
Seychelles.................................. 5.1
Oman ........................................ 5.0
Lithuania .................................... 5.0
Thailand ..................................... 5.0
Mauritius .................................... 4.9
Indonesia ................................... 4.9
Dominican Republic ................... 4.9
Kenya ........................................ 4.9
Slovak Republic ......................... 4.9
Honduras ................................... 4.9
Cambodia .................................. 4.9
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.9
Mexico ....................................... 4.8
Hungary ..................................... 4.8
Namibia ..................................... 4.8
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 4.8
Jamaica ..................................... 4.8
Gambia, The .............................. 4.8
Ukraine ...................................... 4.8
Lebanon .................................... 4.8
China ......................................... 4.7
Nigeria ....................................... 4.7

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

338 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Azerbaijan .................................. 4.7
Guyana ...................................... 4.7
Morocco .................................... 4.7
Cape Verde ............................... 4.7
Croatia ....................................... 4.7
Slovenia ..................................... 4.7
Peru ........................................... 4.7
Albania....................................... 4.6
Mongolia .................................... 4.6
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.6
Uruguay ..................................... 4.6
Rwanda ..................................... 4.6
Pakistan ..................................... 4.6
Egypt ......................................... 4.6
Mali ............................................ 4.5
Zambia ...................................... 4.5
Liberia ........................................ 4.5
Latvia ......................................... 4.5
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.5
El Salvador................................. 4.5
Colombia ................................... 4.4
Greece ....................................... 4.4
Tajikistan .................................... 4.4
Armenia ..................................... 4.4
Gabon ....................................... 4.4
Botswana .................................. 4.4
Zimbabwe .................................. 4.4
Montenegro ............................... 4.4
Ecuador ..................................... 4.3
Paraguay ................................... 4.3
Uganda ...................................... 4.3
Italy ............................................ 4.3
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 4.3
Argentina ................................... 4.3
Mauritania .................................. 4.3
Libya .......................................... 4.3
Yemen ....................................... 4.3
Mozambique .............................. 4.3
Bangladesh................................ 4.2
Poland ....................................... 4.2
Cameroon.................................. 4.2
Benin ......................................... 4.2
Ghana ........................................ 4.2
Romania .................................... 4.1
Venezuela .................................. 4.1
Burkina Faso.............................. 4.1
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.1
Nepal ......................................... 4.1
Suriname ................................... 4.1
Nicaragua .................................. 4.0
Georgia ...................................... 4.0
Swaziland .................................. 4.0
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.0
Vietnam ..................................... 4.0
Lesotho ..................................... 4.0
Moldova ..................................... 4.0
Tanzania .................................... 3.9
Haiti ........................................... 3.9
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.9
Madagascar ............................... 3.8
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.8
Malawi ....................................... 3.8
Guinea ....................................... 3.8
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.7
Chad.......................................... 3.7
Bolivia ........................................ 3.7
Ethiopia...................................... 3.7
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.7
Russian Federation .................... 3.6
Serbia ........................................ 3.6
Burundi ...................................... 3.5
Algeria ....................................... 3.2

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.8

7

4: Data Tables

7.02 Capacity for innovation
In your country, how do companies obtain technology? [1 = exclusively from licensing or imitating foreign companies; 7 = by conducting
formal research and pioneering their own new products and processes] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.3

7

Japan ........................................ 5.9
Switzerland ................................ 5.8
Germany .................................... 5.7
Finland ....................................... 5.6
Sweden ..................................... 5.5
Israel .......................................... 5.4
United States ............................. 5.2
Netherlands ............................... 5.1
Austria ....................................... 5.0
France ....................................... 5.0
Belgium ..................................... 5.0
United Kingdom ......................... 5.0
Denmark .................................... 4.9
Norway ...................................... 4.7
Taiwan, China ............................ 4.7
Luxembourg .............................. 4.6
Malaysia..................................... 4.6
Qatar ......................................... 4.6
Korea, Rep. ............................... 4.5
Singapore .................................. 4.4
Iceland ....................................... 4.4
Czech Republic ......................... 4.1
China ......................................... 4.1
New Zealand ............................. 4.1
Canada ...................................... 4.1
Ireland........................................ 4.0
United Arab Emirates ................. 4.0
Italy ............................................ 4.0
Saudi Arabia .............................. 3.9
Indonesia ................................... 3.9
Slovenia ..................................... 3.9
Australia ..................................... 3.9
Estonia....................................... 3.8
Brazil.......................................... 3.7
Guyana ...................................... 3.7
Liberia ........................................ 3.6
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 3.6
Puerto Rico................................ 3.6
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.5
Portugal ..................................... 3.5
South Africa ............................... 3.5
India........................................... 3.5
Costa Rica ................................. 3.5
Spain ......................................... 3.5
Hungary ..................................... 3.5
Kenya ........................................ 3.5
Lithuania .................................... 3.4
Turkey........................................ 3.4
Latvia ......................................... 3.4
Oman ........................................ 3.4
Tajikistan .................................... 3.4
Gambia, The .............................. 3.3
Montenegro ............................... 3.3
Poland ....................................... 3.3
Rwanda ..................................... 3.3
Russian Federation .................... 3.3
Jordan ....................................... 3.3
Ukraine ...................................... 3.3
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.3
Pakistan ..................................... 3.3
Bolivia ........................................ 3.2
Armenia ..................................... 3.2
Nigeria ....................................... 3.2
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.2
Cambodia .................................. 3.2
Colombia ................................... 3.2
Guatemala ................................. 3.2
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 3.2
Senegal ..................................... 3.2
Malta ......................................... 3.2
Tanzania .................................... 3.1
Croatia ....................................... 3.1

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.3

7

Mongolia .................................... 3.1
Uruguay ..................................... 3.1
Mexico ....................................... 3.1
Zambia ...................................... 3.1
Romania .................................... 3.1
Vietnam ..................................... 3.0
Thailand ..................................... 3.0
Egypt ......................................... 3.0
Ghana ........................................ 3.0
Ecuador ..................................... 3.0
Chile .......................................... 3.0
Seychelles.................................. 3.0
Jamaica ..................................... 2.9
Philippines ................................. 2.9
Nicaragua .................................. 2.9
Slovak Republic ......................... 2.9
Cyprus ....................................... 2.9
Namibia ..................................... 2.9
Barbados ................................... 2.9
Kazakhstan ................................ 2.9
Sri Lanka ................................... 2.9
Panama ..................................... 2.9
Argentina ................................... 2.9
Botswana .................................. 2.8
Madagascar ............................... 2.8
Honduras ................................... 2.8
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 2.8
Malawi ....................................... 2.8
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 2.8
Uganda ...................................... 2.8
Peru ........................................... 2.8
Greece ....................................... 2.7
Chad.......................................... 2.7
Suriname ................................... 2.7
El Salvador................................. 2.7
Mauritania .................................. 2.7
Paraguay ................................... 2.7
Cameroon.................................. 2.7
Mali ............................................ 2.7
Mauritius .................................... 2.7
Kuwait ....................................... 2.6
Lebanon .................................... 2.6
Morocco .................................... 2.6
Georgia ...................................... 2.5
Bahrain ...................................... 2.5
Dominican Republic ................... 2.5
Lesotho ..................................... 2.5
Serbia ........................................ 2.5
Benin ......................................... 2.5
Moldova ..................................... 2.5
Libya .......................................... 2.5
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 2.4
Timor-Leste ............................... 2.4
Nepal ......................................... 2.4
Guinea ....................................... 2.4
Albania....................................... 2.4
Zimbabwe .................................. 2.4
Swaziland .................................. 2.4
Bangladesh................................ 2.4
Mozambique .............................. 2.3
Ethiopia...................................... 2.3
Venezuela .................................. 2.3
Burkina Faso.............................. 2.3
Sierra Leone .............................. 2.3
Cape Verde ............................... 2.3
Haiti ........................................... 2.3
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 2.2
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.1
Gabon ....................................... 2.0
Yemen ....................................... 1.9
Algeria ....................................... 1.9
Burundi ...................................... 1.8

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 339

4: Data Tables

7.03 PCT patents applications
Number of applications filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) per million population | 2009-2010 average

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Sweden .....................................297.1
Switzerland ................................284.7
Finland .......................................279.3
Japan ........................................251.1
Germany ....................................209.1
Israel ..........................................209.1
Denmark ....................................196.7
Netherlands ...............................180.9
Korea, Rep. ...............................172.1
Austria .......................................154.7
Norway ......................................144.4
United States .............................134.4
Singapore ..................................120.4
France .......................................108.2
Belgium .....................................106.2
Luxembourg ..............................100.1
Iceland .........................................95.5
United Kingdom ...........................87.3
Canada ........................................78.1
Australia .......................................77.5
Ireland..........................................76.5
New Zealand ...............................71.9
Slovenia .......................................60.7
Italy ..............................................51.0
Spain ...........................................38.0
Estonia.........................................34.3
Seychelles....................................26.0
Hungary .......................................22.3
Czech Republic ...........................14.7
Portugal .......................................12.2
Malaysia.......................................12.0
Barbados .....................................11.3
Latvia ...........................................10.0
Croatia ...........................................9.8
China .............................................9.0
Malta .............................................8.7
Greece ...........................................8.6
Cyprus ...........................................7.7
Slovak Republic .............................7.2
Poland ...........................................6.7
Turkey............................................6.5
South Africa ...................................6.0
Russian Federation ........................6.0
Chile ..............................................5.5
Lithuania ........................................4.6
United Arab Emirates .....................4.2
Bulgaria .........................................3.6
Saudi Arabia ..................................3.2
Brunei Darussalam .........................3.1
Brazil..............................................2.8
Ukraine ..........................................2.8
Serbia ............................................2.8
Bosnia and Herzegovina ................2.0
Bahrain ..........................................1.9
Romania ........................................1.8
Qatar .............................................1.8
Armenia .........................................1.7
Costa Rica .....................................1.6
Mexico ...........................................1.6
Georgia ..........................................1.4
Trinidad and Tobago......................1.4
India...............................................1.3
Oman ............................................1.3
Lebanon ........................................1.3
Kazakhstan ....................................1.2
Argentina .......................................1.2
Uruguay .........................................1.1
Colombia .......................................1.0
Thailand .........................................1.0
Macedonia, FYR ............................0.7
Suriname .......................................0.7
Egypt .............................................0.6

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
123
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Jamaica .........................................0.6
Sri Lanka .......................................0.5
Panama .........................................0.5
Morocco ........................................0.5
Azerbaijan ......................................0.4
Moldova .........................................0.4
Libya ..............................................0.4
Philippines .....................................0.3
Dominican Republic .......................0.2
Peru ...............................................0.2
Kuwait ...........................................0.2
Jordan ...........................................0.2
Cameroon......................................0.2
Venezuela ......................................0.2
Gabon ...........................................0.2
Albania...........................................0.2
Vietnam .........................................0.1
Guatemala .....................................0.1
Kyrgyz Republic .............................0.1
Paraguay .......................................0.1
Kenya ............................................0.1
Sierra Leone ..................................0.1
Swaziland ......................................0.1
Zimbabwe ......................................0.1
Ecuador .........................................0.1
Algeria ...........................................0.1
Bolivia ............................................0.1
El Salvador.....................................0.1
Indonesia .......................................0.1
Namibia .........................................0.1
Mauritius ........................................0.1
Iran, Islamic Rep. ...........................0.1
Mongolia ........................................0.1
Botswana ......................................0.0
Chad..............................................0.0
Yemen ...........................................0.0
Senegal .........................................0.0
Benin .............................................0.0
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................0.0
Madagascar ...................................0.0
Burkina Faso..................................0.0
Ghana ............................................0.0
Pakistan .........................................0.0
Tanzania ........................................0.0
Bangladesh....................................0.0
Nigeria ...........................................0.0
Malawi ...........................................0.0
Nepal .............................................0.0
Uganda ..........................................0.0
Ethiopia..........................................0.0
Burundi ..........................................0.0
Cambodia ......................................0.0
Cape Verde ...................................0.0
Gambia, The ..................................0.0
Guinea ...........................................0.0
Guyana ..........................................0.0
Haiti ...............................................0.0
Honduras .......................................0.0
Lesotho .........................................0.0
Liberia ............................................0.0
Mali ................................................0.0
Mauritania ......................................0.0
Montenegro ...................................0.0
Mozambique ..................................0.0
Nicaragua ......................................0.0
Rwanda .........................................0.0
Tajikistan ........................................0.0
Timor-Leste ...................................0.0
Zambia ..........................................0.0
Hong Kong SAR ............................n/a
Puerto Rico....................................n/a
Taiwan, China ................................n/a

SOURCES: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Patent Database, January 2013; World Bank, World Development Indicators Online (retrieved
November 28, 2012)

340 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

7.04 Business-to-business Internet use
To what extent do businesses in your country use ICTs for communicating and carrying out transactions with other businesses? [1 = not at
all; 7 = extensively] | 2012
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 5.0

Finland ...........................................6.3
Switzerland ....................................6.3
Austria ...........................................6.2
United Kingdom .............................6.1
Malta .............................................6.1
Sweden .........................................6.1
Japan ............................................6.0
Norway ..........................................6.0
Taiwan, China ................................6.0
Singapore ......................................6.0
New Zealand .................................6.0
Netherlands ...................................6.0
Qatar .............................................6.0
Germany ........................................5.9
Estonia...........................................5.9
Luxembourg ..................................5.9
United Arab Emirates .....................5.9
Hong Kong SAR ............................5.9
Korea, Rep. ...................................5.9
Lithuania ........................................5.8
Belgium .........................................5.8
Denmark ........................................5.8
Czech Republic .............................5.8
Vietnam .........................................5.7
France ...........................................5.7
Slovenia .........................................5.7
Canada ..........................................5.7
Saudi Arabia ..................................5.7
Bahrain ..........................................5.6
Iceland ...........................................5.6
Australia .........................................5.6
Ireland............................................5.6
Malaysia.........................................5.6
Costa Rica .....................................5.6
United States .................................5.6
South Africa ...................................5.6
Portugal .........................................5.6
Chile ..............................................5.5
Panama .........................................5.5
Brazil..............................................5.5
Puerto Rico....................................5.5
Israel ..............................................5.4
Slovak Republic .............................5.4
Guatemala .....................................5.4
Latvia .............................................5.4
Spain .............................................5.4
Dominican Republic .......................5.4
Mauritius ........................................5.3
Barbados .......................................5.3
Jordan ...........................................5.3
Philippines .....................................5.2
Croatia ...........................................5.2
Cameroon......................................5.2
Armenia .........................................5.2
Brunei Darussalam .........................5.2
Senegal .........................................5.1
Mexico ...........................................5.1
Namibia .........................................5.1
India...............................................5.1
Zambia ..........................................5.1
Guyana ..........................................5.1
Cyprus ...........................................5.0
Kazakhstan ....................................5.0
Gambia, The ..................................5.0
Honduras .......................................5.0
Hungary .........................................5.0
Trinidad and Tobago......................5.0
Seychelles......................................5.0
Uruguay .........................................5.0
Colombia .......................................5.0
Macedonia, FYR ............................4.9
Kuwait ...........................................4.9

7

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 5.0

7

Oman ............................................4.9
Turkey............................................4.9
Mali ................................................4.9
Kenya ............................................4.9
Jamaica .........................................4.9
Azerbaijan ......................................4.8
Peru ...............................................4.8
Ukraine ..........................................4.8
Montenegro ...................................4.8
Morocco ........................................4.8
Mongolia ........................................4.8
Argentina .......................................4.8
Ghana ............................................4.8
Romania ........................................4.7
Cambodia ......................................4.7
Yemen ...........................................4.7
China .............................................4.7
Greece ...........................................4.7
Cape Verde ...................................4.7
Moldova .........................................4.7
Thailand .........................................4.7
Uganda ..........................................4.7
Poland ...........................................4.7
Bulgaria .........................................4.6
Indonesia .......................................4.6
Swaziland ......................................4.6
Nigeria ...........................................4.6
Zimbabwe ......................................4.6
Italy ................................................4.5
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................4.5
Guinea ...........................................4.5
Gabon ...........................................4.5
Bosnia and Herzegovina ................4.5
Malawi ...........................................4.5
Russian Federation ........................4.4
Mozambique ..................................4.4
Venezuela ......................................4.4
Madagascar ...................................4.4
Egypt .............................................4.4
Nepal .............................................4.4
Paraguay .......................................4.4
Mauritania ......................................4.3
Burkina Faso..................................4.3
Pakistan .........................................4.3
El Salvador.....................................4.3
Serbia ............................................4.2
Tajikistan ........................................4.2
Botswana ......................................4.2
Tanzania ........................................4.2
Liberia ............................................4.2
Benin .............................................4.2
Nicaragua ......................................4.2
Suriname .......................................4.2
Bangladesh....................................4.1
Sierra Leone ..................................4.0
Lebanon ........................................4.0
Kyrgyz Republic .............................4.0
Ethiopia..........................................4.0
Haiti ...............................................3.9
Bolivia ............................................3.9
Iran, Islamic Rep. ...........................3.9
Lesotho .........................................3.8
Timor-Leste ...................................3.7
Libya ..............................................3.6
Chad..............................................3.5
Burundi ..........................................3.3
Algeria ...........................................2.7
Albania...........................................n/a
Ecuador .........................................n/a
Georgia ..........................................n/a
Rwanda .........................................n/a
Sri Lanka .......................................n/a

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2012 edition

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 341

4: Data Tables

7.05 Business-to-consumer Internet use
To what extent do businesses in your country use internet for selling their goods and services to consumers? [1 = not at all; 7 = extensively]
| 2012
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.5

United Kingdom ......................... 6.3
Korea, Rep. ............................... 6.3
United States ............................. 6.0
Netherlands ............................... 6.0
Taiwan, China ............................ 6.0
Finland ....................................... 6.0
Japan ........................................ 5.9
Czech Republic ......................... 5.9
Australia ..................................... 5.8
Lithuania .................................... 5.8
Sweden ..................................... 5.8
Switzerland ................................ 5.8
Norway ...................................... 5.7
Germany .................................... 5.7
Estonia....................................... 5.7
Austria ....................................... 5.6
Canada ...................................... 5.6
New Zealand ............................. 5.6
Panama ..................................... 5.5
Denmark .................................... 5.5
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.5
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.5
Israel .......................................... 5.5
Latvia ......................................... 5.4
France ....................................... 5.4
Malaysia..................................... 5.4
Ireland........................................ 5.3
Brazil.......................................... 5.3
Iceland ....................................... 5.3
Singapore .................................. 5.3
Chile .......................................... 5.2
Puerto Rico................................ 5.2
Qatar ......................................... 5.2
Vietnam ..................................... 5.2
Portugal ..................................... 5.1
Luxembourg .............................. 5.1
Belgium ..................................... 5.1
Costa Rica ................................. 5.1
Slovak Republic ......................... 5.0
Spain ......................................... 5.0
Romania .................................... 5.0
Jordan ....................................... 4.9
Poland ....................................... 4.9
Indonesia ................................... 4.9
Colombia ................................... 4.9
Malta ......................................... 4.9
China ......................................... 4.9
Cyprus ....................................... 4.8
Dominican Republic ................... 4.8
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.8
Philippines ................................. 4.8
South Africa ............................... 4.8
Thailand ..................................... 4.8
Kuwait ....................................... 4.8
Slovenia ..................................... 4.8
Turkey........................................ 4.7
Guatemala ................................. 4.7
Hungary ..................................... 4.7
El Salvador................................. 4.7
Barbados ................................... 4.7
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.7
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.7
Russian Federation .................... 4.6
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.6
Argentina ................................... 4.6
Uruguay ..................................... 4.6
Peru ........................................... 4.6
Ukraine ...................................... 4.6
Mexico ....................................... 4.6
Nigeria ....................................... 4.5
Guyana ...................................... 4.5
Kenya ........................................ 4.5

7

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2012 edition

342 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Senegal ..................................... 4.5
Croatia ....................................... 4.5
Gambia, The .............................. 4.5
India........................................... 4.4
Azerbaijan .................................. 4.4
Montenegro ............................... 4.4
Mongolia .................................... 4.4
Egypt ......................................... 4.4
Honduras ................................... 4.4
Armenia ..................................... 4.4
Italy ............................................ 4.4
Benin ......................................... 4.3
Venezuela .................................. 4.3
Greece ....................................... 4.3
Paraguay ................................... 4.2
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 4.2
Oman ........................................ 4.2
Namibia ..................................... 4.2
Morocco .................................... 4.2
Mauritius .................................... 4.1
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.1
Cambodia .................................. 4.1
Moldova ..................................... 4.0
Tajikistan .................................... 4.0
Bahrain ...................................... 4.0
Zambia ...................................... 4.0
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 4.0
Bolivia ........................................ 4.0
Cameroon.................................. 3.9
Nicaragua .................................. 3.9
Liberia ........................................ 3.9
Jamaica ..................................... 3.9
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.9
Mali ............................................ 3.8
Cape Verde ............................... 3.8
Botswana .................................. 3.8
Mozambique .............................. 3.8
Ghana ........................................ 3.8
Nepal ......................................... 3.8
Pakistan ..................................... 3.8
Madagascar ............................... 3.7
Seychelles.................................. 3.7
Uganda ...................................... 3.7
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.6
Bangladesh................................ 3.6
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.6
Mauritania .................................. 3.6
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 3.5
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.5
Haiti ........................................... 3.5
Serbia ........................................ 3.5
Malawi ....................................... 3.4
Suriname ................................... 3.4
Tanzania .................................... 3.4
Swaziland .................................. 3.3
Guinea ....................................... 3.3
Gabon ....................................... 3.2
Yemen ....................................... 3.2
Libya .......................................... 3.1
Lebanon .................................... 3.1
Lesotho ..................................... 3.1
Ethiopia...................................... 3.0
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.0
Chad.......................................... 2.8
Burundi ...................................... 2.7
Sierra Leone .............................. 2.6
Algeria ....................................... 2.4
Albania....................................... n/a
Ecuador ..................................... n/a
Georgia ...................................... n/a
Rwanda ..................................... n/a
Sri Lanka ................................... n/a

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.5

7

4: Data Tables

7.06 Extent of staff training
To what extent do companies in your country invest in training and employee development? [1 = hardly at all; 7 = to a great extent] | 2011–
2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.9

7

Switzerland ................................ 5.6
Finland ....................................... 5.4
Singapore .................................. 5.3
Luxembourg .............................. 5.3
Japan ........................................ 5.3
Sweden ..................................... 5.2
Malaysia..................................... 5.2
Netherlands ............................... 5.2
Norway ...................................... 5.2
Denmark .................................... 5.1
Qatar ......................................... 5.0
Austria ....................................... 5.0
Germany .................................... 5.0
United Kingdom ......................... 5.0
United States ............................. 5.0
Ireland........................................ 4.9
United Arab Emirates ................. 4.9
New Zealand ............................. 4.8
Puerto Rico................................ 4.8
Belgium ..................................... 4.8
Iceland ....................................... 4.7
Gambia, The .............................. 4.7
Canada ...................................... 4.7
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 4.6
Bahrain ...................................... 4.6
South Africa ............................... 4.6
Israel .......................................... 4.6
Australia ..................................... 4.6
Costa Rica ................................. 4.6
Barbados ................................... 4.6
Taiwan, China ............................ 4.6
Philippines ................................. 4.6
Brazil.......................................... 4.4
Oman ........................................ 4.4
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.4
Albania....................................... 4.4
Mauritius .................................... 4.3
Chile .......................................... 4.3
Indonesia ................................... 4.3
Guatemala ................................. 4.3
France ....................................... 4.3
Korea, Rep. ............................... 4.3
Panama ..................................... 4.2
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 4.2
China ......................................... 4.2
Estonia....................................... 4.2
Suriname ................................... 4.2
Czech Republic ......................... 4.2
Thailand ..................................... 4.2
Malta ......................................... 4.1
Montenegro ............................... 4.1
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.1
Latvia ......................................... 4.1
India........................................... 4.1
Namibia ..................................... 4.1
Azerbaijan .................................. 4.1
Nigeria ....................................... 4.1
Jamaica ..................................... 4.1
Poland ....................................... 4.0
Mongolia .................................... 4.0
Guyana ...................................... 4.0
Seychelles.................................. 4.0
Honduras ................................... 4.0
Liberia ........................................ 4.0
Turkey........................................ 4.0
Lithuania .................................... 4.0
Mexico ....................................... 4.0
Botswana .................................. 3.9
Rwanda ..................................... 3.9
Kenya ........................................ 3.9
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.9
Kazakhstan ................................ 3.9

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 3.9

7

Portugal ..................................... 3.9
Cambodia .................................. 3.9
Morocco .................................... 3.9
Dominican Republic ................... 3.9
Tanzania .................................... 3.8
Argentina ................................... 3.8
Tajikistan .................................... 3.8
Sri Lanka ................................... 3.8
El Salvador................................. 3.8
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.8
Cameroon.................................. 3.8
Peru ........................................... 3.8
Cyprus ....................................... 3.8
Uruguay ..................................... 3.8
Swaziland .................................. 3.8
Jordan ....................................... 3.8
Russian Federation .................... 3.7
Ecuador ..................................... 3.7
Slovenia ..................................... 3.7
Kuwait ....................................... 3.7
Gabon ....................................... 3.7
Malawi ....................................... 3.7
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.7
Ghana ........................................ 3.7
Nicaragua .................................. 3.6
Armenia ..................................... 3.6
Colombia ................................... 3.6
Uganda ...................................... 3.6
Georgia ...................................... 3.6
Lebanon .................................... 3.6
Bolivia ........................................ 3.6
Venezuela .................................. 3.6
Spain ......................................... 3.6
Ukraine ...................................... 3.6
Paraguay ................................... 3.5
Zambia ...................................... 3.5
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.5
Hungary ..................................... 3.5
Romania .................................... 3.4
Pakistan ..................................... 3.4
Madagascar ............................... 3.4
Guinea ....................................... 3.3
Greece ....................................... 3.3
Vietnam ..................................... 3.3
Lesotho ..................................... 3.3
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.3
Mozambique .............................. 3.2
Cape Verde ............................... 3.2
Yemen ....................................... 3.2
Moldova ..................................... 3.2
Italy ............................................ 3.2
Croatia ....................................... 3.2
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.1
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.1
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.1
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.1
Egypt ......................................... 3.1
Ethiopia...................................... 3.1
Mali ............................................ 3.1
Nepal ......................................... 3.1
Benin ......................................... 3.1
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.0
Senegal ..................................... 3.0
Bangladesh................................ 3.0
Burkina Faso.............................. 2.9
Serbia ........................................ 2.9
Chad.......................................... 2.9
Libya .......................................... 2.9
Mauritania .................................. 2.7
Algeria ....................................... 2.6
Burundi ...................................... 2.4
Haiti ........................................... 2.3

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 343

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Data Tables

8th pillar
Government usage

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

8.01 Importance of ICTs to government vision of the future
To what extent does the government have a clear implementation plan for utilizing ICTs to improve your country’s overall competitiveness? [1
= no plan; 7 = clear plan] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.0

7

Singapore .................................. 5.9
Qatar ......................................... 5.8
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.7
Malta ......................................... 5.6
Luxembourg .............................. 5.5
Malaysia..................................... 5.4
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.4
Bahrain ...................................... 5.4
Azerbaijan .................................. 5.4
Rwanda ..................................... 5.4
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.3
Sweden ..................................... 5.2
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.2
Sri Lanka ................................... 5.1
Oman ........................................ 5.1
New Zealand ............................. 5.1
Seychelles.................................. 5.0
Finland ....................................... 4.9
Norway ...................................... 4.9
Panama ..................................... 4.8
Portugal ..................................... 4.8
China ......................................... 4.8
Estonia....................................... 4.8
Cape Verde ............................... 4.8
United Kingdom ......................... 4.8
Australia ..................................... 4.7
Gambia, The .............................. 4.7
Kenya ........................................ 4.7
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.7
Chile .......................................... 4.6
Montenegro ............................... 4.6
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 4.5
Denmark .................................... 4.5
United States ............................. 4.5
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.5
Barbados ................................... 4.5
Switzerland ................................ 4.5
Morocco .................................... 4.4
Guyana ...................................... 4.4
Germany .................................... 4.4
Israel .......................................... 4.4
Liberia ........................................ 4.4
Jordan ....................................... 4.4
Ireland........................................ 4.4
India........................................... 4.3
Japan ........................................ 4.3
Netherlands ............................... 4.3
Mauritius .................................... 4.3
Tajikistan .................................... 4.3
France ....................................... 4.3
Canada ...................................... 4.2
Uganda ...................................... 4.2
Turkey........................................ 4.2
Zambia ...................................... 4.2
Cambodia .................................. 4.2
Armenia ..................................... 4.2
Iceland ....................................... 4.2
Nigeria ....................................... 4.2
Ethiopia...................................... 4.1
Cyprus ....................................... 4.1
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 4.1
Colombia ................................... 4.1
Mali ............................................ 4.1
Puerto Rico................................ 4.1
Indonesia ................................... 4.1
Vietnam ..................................... 4.1
Botswana .................................. 4.1
Bangladesh................................ 4.1
Belgium ..................................... 4.0
Albania....................................... 4.0
Ghana ........................................ 4.0
Guinea ....................................... 4.0

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

346 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Lithuania .................................... 4.0
Jamaica ..................................... 3.9
Uruguay ..................................... 3.9
Mexico ....................................... 3.9
Austria ....................................... 3.9
Costa Rica ................................. 3.9
Senegal ..................................... 3.9
Brazil.......................................... 3.9
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.9
Ecuador ..................................... 3.8
Cameroon.................................. 3.8
Spain ......................................... 3.8
Philippines ................................. 3.7
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.7
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.7
Tanzania .................................... 3.7
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.7
Gabon ....................................... 3.7
Georgia ...................................... 3.7
Mozambique .............................. 3.6
Mongolia .................................... 3.6
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 3.6
Chad.......................................... 3.6
Moldova ..................................... 3.6
Namibia ..................................... 3.6
Dominican Republic ................... 3.6
Slovenia ..................................... 3.5
Malawi ....................................... 3.5
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.5
Hungary ..................................... 3.5
Latvia ......................................... 3.5
Thailand ..................................... 3.5
South Africa ............................... 3.4
Romania .................................... 3.4
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.4
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.4
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.4
Benin ......................................... 3.4
Croatia ....................................... 3.4
Peru ........................................... 3.4
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.3
Czech Republic ......................... 3.3
Bolivia ........................................ 3.3
Russian Federation .................... 3.3
Pakistan ..................................... 3.2
Italy ............................................ 3.2
Kuwait ....................................... 3.2
Mauritania .................................. 3.2
Nepal ......................................... 3.2
Egypt ......................................... 3.1
Poland ....................................... 3.1
Serbia ........................................ 3.1
Nicaragua .................................. 3.1
El Salvador................................. 3.1
Lesotho ..................................... 3.1
Honduras ................................... 3.0
Guatemala ................................. 3.0
Ukraine ...................................... 2.9
Swaziland .................................. 2.8
Libya .......................................... 2.8
Paraguay ................................... 2.7
Madagascar ............................... 2.7
Burundi ...................................... 2.7
Venezuela .................................. 2.7
Suriname ................................... 2.7
Greece ....................................... 2.7
Argentina ................................... 2.6
Algeria ....................................... 2.6
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.5
Haiti ........................................... 2.4
Yemen ....................................... 2.2
Lebanon .................................... 2.1

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.0

7

4: Data Tables

8.02 Government Online Service Index
The Government Online Service Index assesses the quality of government’s delivery of online services on a 0-to-1 (best) scale | 2012

RANK

1
1
1
4
5
6
7
8
9
9
9
9
13
13
15
16
16
18
19
20
21
21
23
24
24
26
27
28
29
29
31
32
32
32
35
35
37
38
39
40
41
42
42
44
45
45
47
48
48
48
51
52
53
53
55
55
55
55
59
59
61
61
61
64
64
66
67
67
67
70
70
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Korea, Rep. .................................1.00
Singapore ....................................1.00
United States ...............................1.00
United Kingdom ...........................0.97
Netherlands .................................0.96
Canada ........................................0.89
Finland .........................................0.88
France .........................................0.88
Australia .......................................0.86
Bahrain ........................................0.86
Japan ..........................................0.86
United Arab Emirates ...................0.86
Denmark ......................................0.86
Norway ........................................0.86
Israel ............................................0.85
Colombia .....................................0.84
Sweden .......................................0.84
Estonia.........................................0.82
Saudi Arabia ................................0.80
Malaysia.......................................0.79
Kazakhstan ..................................0.78
New Zealand ...............................0.78
Spain ...........................................0.76
Chile ............................................0.75
Germany ......................................0.75
Austria .........................................0.75
Qatar ...........................................0.74
Mexico .........................................0.73
Lithuania ......................................0.70
Luxembourg ................................0.70
Hungary .......................................0.69
Brazil............................................0.67
El Salvador...................................0.67
Switzerland ..................................0.67
Oman ..........................................0.67
Slovenia .......................................0.67
Russian Federation ......................0.66
Portugal .......................................0.65
Belgium .......................................0.65
Croatia .........................................0.64
Malta ...........................................0.61
Egypt ...........................................0.60
Georgia ........................................0.60
Brunei Darussalam .......................0.59
Latvia ...........................................0.59
Mongolia ......................................0.59
Kuwait .........................................0.58
Greece .........................................0.58
Italy ..............................................0.58
Serbia ..........................................0.58
Cyprus .........................................0.56
Uruguay .......................................0.55
Czech Republic ...........................0.54
Iceland .........................................0.54
Dominican Republic .....................0.54
India.............................................0.54
Ireland..........................................0.54
Poland .........................................0.54
Argentina .....................................0.53
China ...........................................0.53
Moldova .......................................0.52
Peru .............................................0.52
Romania ......................................0.52
Montenegro .................................0.51
Thailand .......................................0.51
Slovak Republic ...........................0.50
Costa Rica ...................................0.50
Indonesia .....................................0.50
Philippines ...................................0.50
Bulgaria .......................................0.49
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................0.49
Trinidad and Tobago....................0.48

72
74
75
76
76
76
79
79
79
82
83
84
85
85
87
87
87
87
91
92
93
93
95
95
97
97
97
100
101
102
103
104
104
106
107
107
107
110
110
112
113
113
113
113
117
117
119
120
120
122
123
124
125
125
127
128
128
128
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
140
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Venezuela ....................................0.48
Lebanon ......................................0.48
Ethiopia........................................0.47
Guatemala ...................................0.46
Panama .......................................0.46
Turkey..........................................0.46
Ecuador .......................................0.46
Paraguay .....................................0.46
South Africa .................................0.46
Macedonia, FYR ..........................0.45
Bangladesh..................................0.44
Cape Verde .................................0.44
Kenya ..........................................0.43
Mauritius ......................................0.43
Albania.........................................0.42
Kyrgyz Republic ...........................0.42
Ukraine ........................................0.42
Vietnam .......................................0.42
Bolivia ..........................................0.41
Jordan .........................................0.39
Honduras .....................................0.38
Sri Lanka .....................................0.38
Barbados .....................................0.37
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............0.37
Azerbaijan ....................................0.37
Mozambique ................................0.37
Pakistan .......................................0.37
Botswana ....................................0.36
Tanzania ......................................0.35
Senegal .......................................0.35
Rwanda .......................................0.34
Côte d’Ivoire ................................0.33
Seychelles....................................0.33
Armenia .......................................0.33
Gambia, The ................................0.32
Madagascar .................................0.32
Mali ..............................................0.32
Nicaragua ....................................0.31
Zambia ........................................0.31
Jamaica .......................................0.31
Cameroon....................................0.30
Ghana ..........................................0.30
Lesotho .......................................0.30
Namibia .......................................0.30
Burkina Faso................................0.29
Uganda ........................................0.29
Nepal ...........................................0.29
Algeria .........................................0.25
Guyana ........................................0.25
Morocco ......................................0.25
Tajikistan ......................................0.24
Nigeria .........................................0.22
Malawi .........................................0.22
Timor-Leste .................................0.22
Benin ...........................................0.20
Cambodia ....................................0.19
Gabon .........................................0.19
Liberia ..........................................0.19
Yemen .........................................0.18
Sierra Leone ................................0.17
Suriname .....................................0.16
Burundi ........................................0.15
Swaziland ....................................0.14
Zimbabwe1 ..................................0.13
Chad............................................0.10
Haiti .............................................0.09
Mauritania ....................................0.08
Guinea .........................................0.00
Libya ............................................0.00
Hong Kong SAR ............................n/a
Puerto Rico....................................n/a
Taiwan, China ................................n/a

United Nations, United Nations E-Government Survey 2012: E-Government for the People

1 2010

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 347

4: Data Tables

8.03 Government success in ICT promotion
How successful is the government in promoting the use of Information and Communication Technologies (ICTs) in your country? [1 = not
successful at all; 7 = very successful] | 2012
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.4

United Arab Emirates ................. 6.1
Qatar ......................................... 6.0
Saudi Arabia .............................. 6.0
Singapore .................................. 6.0
Malta ......................................... 5.8
Bahrain ...................................... 5.7
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.6
Azerbaijan .................................. 5.6
Luxembourg .............................. 5.6
Malaysia..................................... 5.5
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.5
Finland ....................................... 5.4
Sweden ..................................... 5.4
Estonia....................................... 5.4
Oman ........................................ 5.3
Gambia, The .............................. 5.2
Kazakhstan ................................ 5.2
Israel .......................................... 5.2
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.2
Panama ..................................... 5.2
Norway ...................................... 5.1
Mauritius .................................... 5.1
Germany .................................... 5.1
India........................................... 5.1
New Zealand ............................. 5.1
Netherlands ............................... 5.1
Switzerland ................................ 5.1
United Kingdom ......................... 5.1
Portugal ..................................... 5.0
Kenya ........................................ 5.0
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 5.0
United States ............................. 5.0
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 5.0
Jordan ....................................... 4.9
Seychelles.................................. 4.9
Burkina Faso.............................. 4.9
Cape Verde ............................... 4.9
Canada ...................................... 4.8
Australia ..................................... 4.8
Mali ............................................ 4.8
Vietnam ..................................... 4.8
Morocco .................................... 4.8
Ireland........................................ 4.8
Senegal ..................................... 4.8
Tajikistan .................................... 4.7
China ......................................... 4.7
Cambodia .................................. 4.7
Barbados ................................... 4.7
Puerto Rico................................ 4.7
Uganda ...................................... 4.7
Zambia ...................................... 4.7
Armenia ..................................... 4.7
Guyana ...................................... 4.7
Lithuania .................................... 4.6
Ghana ........................................ 4.6
Costa Rica ................................. 4.6
Chile .......................................... 4.6
Austria ....................................... 4.6
Montenegro ............................... 4.5
France ....................................... 4.5
Indonesia ................................... 4.5
Iceland ....................................... 4.5
Belgium ..................................... 4.5
Turkey........................................ 4.5
Cameroon.................................. 4.5
Jamaica ..................................... 4.5
Denmark .................................... 4.5
Japan ........................................ 4.4
Uruguay ..................................... 4.4
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.4
Philippines ................................. 4.4
Bangladesh................................ 4.4

7

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2012 edition

348 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Tanzania .................................... 4.4
Slovenia ..................................... 4.4
Mexico ....................................... 4.3
Sierra Leone .............................. 4.3
Pakistan ..................................... 4.3
Liberia ........................................ 4.2
Moldova ..................................... 4.2
Dominican Republic ................... 4.2
Brazil.......................................... 4.2
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.2
Botswana .................................. 4.2
Colombia ................................... 4.1
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 4.1
Gabon ....................................... 4.1
Spain ......................................... 4.1
Guinea ....................................... 4.1
Nigeria ....................................... 4.1
Mozambique .............................. 4.0
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 4.0
Egypt ......................................... 4.0
Malawi ....................................... 4.0
Mongolia .................................... 4.0
Thailand ..................................... 4.0
Peru ........................................... 4.0
Zimbabwe .................................. 4.0
Latvia ......................................... 4.0
Namibia ..................................... 3.9
South Africa ............................... 3.9
Cyprus ....................................... 3.9
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.9
Czech Republic ......................... 3.8
Croatia ....................................... 3.8
Ethiopia...................................... 3.8
Nepal ......................................... 3.7
Romania .................................... 3.7
Russian Federation .................... 3.7
Mauritania .................................. 3.7
Guatemala ................................. 3.7
Suriname ................................... 3.7
Nicaragua .................................. 3.7
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.6
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.6
Bolivia ........................................ 3.6
Libya .......................................... 3.5
Poland ....................................... 3.5
Madagascar ............................... 3.5
Lesotho ..................................... 3.5
Hungary ..................................... 3.5
Chad.......................................... 3.5
Ukraine ...................................... 3.4
El Salvador................................. 3.4
Yemen ....................................... 3.4
Serbia ........................................ 3.4
Paraguay ................................... 3.3
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.2
Argentina ................................... 3.2
Kuwait ....................................... 3.2
Italy ............................................ 3.2
Honduras ................................... 3.2
Benin ......................................... 3.1
Haiti ........................................... 3.1
Venezuela .................................. 3.1
Swaziland .................................. 3.1
Greece ....................................... 2.9
Algeria ....................................... 2.8
Burundi ...................................... 2.8
Lebanon .................................... 2.7
Albania....................................... n/a
Ecuador ..................................... n/a
Georgia ...................................... n/a
Rwanda ..................................... n/a
Sri Lanka ................................... n/a

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.4

7

Data Tables

9th pillar
Economic impacts

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

9.01 Impact of ICT on new services and products
To what extent are ICTs creating new business models, services and products in your country? [1 = not at all; 7 = a significant extent] |
2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.4

7

Finland ....................................... 5.9
United Kingdom ......................... 5.9
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.8
Sweden ..................................... 5.7
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.7
Singapore .................................. 5.6
Estonia....................................... 5.5
Netherlands ............................... 5.5
Luxembourg .............................. 5.5
France ....................................... 5.5
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.5
Qatar ......................................... 5.5
Malaysia..................................... 5.5
Norway ...................................... 5.5
Malta ......................................... 5.4
United States ............................. 5.4
Denmark .................................... 5.4
Switzerland ................................ 5.3
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.3
Germany .................................... 5.3
Israel .......................................... 5.3
Portugal ..................................... 5.3
Canada ...................................... 5.3
Ireland........................................ 5.2
New Zealand ............................. 5.2
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.2
Japan ........................................ 5.1
Australia ..................................... 5.1
Lithuania .................................... 5.1
Chile .......................................... 5.1
Belgium ..................................... 5.1
Iceland ....................................... 5.0
Austria ....................................... 5.0
Brazil.......................................... 5.0
Bahrain ...................................... 5.0
India........................................... 5.0
Vietnam ..................................... 5.0
Spain ......................................... 4.9
Senegal ..................................... 4.9
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.9
Azerbaijan .................................. 4.9
Uruguay ..................................... 4.8
Philippines ................................. 4.8
South Africa ............................... 4.8
Rwanda ..................................... 4.8
Kenya ........................................ 4.8
Jordan ....................................... 4.8
Costa Rica ................................. 4.7
China ......................................... 4.7
Puerto Rico................................ 4.7
Panama ..................................... 4.7
Nigeria ....................................... 4.7
Dominican Republic ................... 4.7
Mexico ....................................... 4.7
Oman ........................................ 4.7
Mauritius .................................... 4.7
Seychelles.................................. 4.7
Gambia, The .............................. 4.6
Montenegro ............................... 4.6
Guatemala ................................. 4.6
Turkey........................................ 4.6
Peru ........................................... 4.6
Barbados ................................... 4.5
Benin ......................................... 4.5
Cyprus ....................................... 4.5
Indonesia ................................... 4.5
Colombia ................................... 4.5
Cape Verde ............................... 4.5
Slovenia ..................................... 4.5
Armenia ..................................... 4.4
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.4
Mongolia .................................... 4.4

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

350 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Hungary ..................................... 4.4
Mali ............................................ 4.4
Uganda ...................................... 4.4
Croatia ....................................... 4.4
Slovak Republic ......................... 4.3
Latvia ......................................... 4.3
Cambodia .................................. 4.3
Ghana ........................................ 4.3
Zambia ...................................... 4.3
Czech Republic ......................... 4.3
Jamaica ..................................... 4.2
Honduras ................................... 4.2
Thailand ..................................... 4.2
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 4.2
Morocco .................................... 4.2
El Salvador................................. 4.2
Ecuador ..................................... 4.2
Italy ............................................ 4.1
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.1
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.1
Albania....................................... 4.1
Argentina ................................... 4.1
Guyana ...................................... 4.1
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.1
Poland ....................................... 4.0
Egypt ......................................... 4.0
Paraguay ................................... 4.0
Bangladesh................................ 4.0
Cameroon.................................. 3.9
Georgia ...................................... 3.9
Ukraine ...................................... 3.9
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.9
Romania .................................... 3.9
Pakistan ..................................... 3.9
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.8
Botswana .................................. 3.8
Tajikistan .................................... 3.8
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.8
Mozambique .............................. 3.8
Tanzania .................................... 3.8
Nicaragua .................................. 3.7
Moldova ..................................... 3.7
Namibia ..................................... 3.7
Malawi ....................................... 3.7
Greece ....................................... 3.7
Venezuela .................................. 3.7
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.6
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.6
Gabon ....................................... 3.6
Nepal ......................................... 3.6
Russian Federation .................... 3.6
Ethiopia...................................... 3.6
Madagascar ............................... 3.6
Liberia ........................................ 3.5
Suriname ................................... 3.5
Kuwait ....................................... 3.5
Bolivia ........................................ 3.5
Serbia ........................................ 3.4
Mauritania .................................. 3.4
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.4
Guinea ....................................... 3.3
Lebanon .................................... 3.3
Haiti ........................................... 3.3
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.2
Chad.......................................... 3.2
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.2
Burundi ...................................... 3.0
Swaziland .................................. 2.9
Libya .......................................... 2.9
Lesotho ..................................... 2.8
Yemen ....................................... 2.5
Algeria ....................................... 2.4

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.4

7

4: Data Tables

9.02 PCT ICT patent applications
Number of applications for information and communication technology–related patents filed under the Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) per
million population | 2009-2010 average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Finland .......................................126.5
Japan ........................................106.7
Sweden .....................................105.0
Israel ............................................81.3
Korea, Rep. .................................73.5
Switzerland ..................................62.9
Netherlands .................................59.3
Singapore ....................................56.5
United States ...............................48.0
Germany ......................................46.5
Denmark ......................................41.2
Norway ........................................33.9
France .........................................30.4
Austria .........................................30.3
Canada ........................................29.7
Ireland..........................................29.2
United Kingdom ...........................25.7
Belgium .......................................23.2
Australia .......................................20.7
Luxembourg ................................18.8
Estonia.........................................14.9
Iceland .........................................14.7
New Zealand ...............................13.7
Italy ................................................8.7
Slovenia .........................................8.6
Spain .............................................8.4
Malaysia.........................................6.1
Hungary .........................................5.4
China .............................................3.9
Portugal .........................................3.1
Czech Republic .............................2.6
Cyprus ...........................................2.0
Slovak Republic .............................2.0
Barbados .......................................1.8
Latvia .............................................1.6
Poland ...........................................1.6
Greece ...........................................1.5
Russian Federation ........................1.4
Croatia ...........................................1.3
Brunei Darussalam .........................1.3
United Arab Emirates .....................1.1
South Africa ...................................1.0
Bulgaria .........................................0.9
Saudi Arabia ..................................0.9
Turkey............................................0.9
Malta .............................................0.8
Serbia ............................................0.7
Romania ........................................0.7
Ukraine ..........................................0.6
Chile ..............................................0.6
Armenia .........................................0.4
Georgia ..........................................0.4
Lebanon ........................................0.4
Trinidad and Tobago......................0.4
Lithuania ........................................0.4
Brazil..............................................0.4
India...............................................0.3
Qatar .............................................0.3
Kazakhstan ....................................0.3
Panama .........................................0.3
Argentina .......................................0.3
Macedonia, FYR ............................0.2
Costa Rica .....................................0.2
Thailand .........................................0.2
Mexico ...........................................0.2
Oman ............................................0.2
Egypt .............................................0.2
Jordan ...........................................0.2
Bosnia and Herzegovina ................0.1
Bahrain ..........................................0.1
Cameroon......................................0.1
Morocco ........................................0.1

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
95
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Kuwait ...........................................0.1
Philippines .....................................0.1
Libya ..............................................0.1
Colombia .......................................0.1
Mauritius ........................................0.1
Sri Lanka .......................................0.1
Dominican Republic .......................0.1
Paraguay .......................................0.0
Guatemala .....................................0.0
Algeria ...........................................0.0
Iran, Islamic Rep. ...........................0.0
Senegal .........................................0.0
Peru ...............................................0.0
Tanzania ........................................0.0
Ecuador .........................................0.0
Vietnam .........................................0.0
Kenya ............................................0.0
Venezuela ......................................0.0
Zimbabwe ......................................0.0
Indonesia .......................................0.0
Pakistan .........................................0.0
Nigeria ...........................................0.0
Albania...........................................0.0
Azerbaijan ......................................0.0
Bangladesh....................................0.0
Benin .............................................0.0
Bolivia ............................................0.0
Botswana ......................................0.0
Burkina Faso..................................0.0
Burundi ..........................................0.0
Cambodia ......................................0.0
Cape Verde ...................................0.0
Chad..............................................0.0
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................0.0
El Salvador.....................................0.0
Ethiopia..........................................0.0
Gabon ...........................................0.0
Gambia, The ..................................0.0
Ghana ............................................0.0
Guinea ...........................................0.0
Guyana ..........................................0.0
Haiti ...............................................0.0
Honduras .......................................0.0
Jamaica .........................................0.0
Kyrgyz Republic .............................0.0
Lesotho .........................................0.0
Liberia ............................................0.0
Madagascar ...................................0.0
Malawi ...........................................0.0
Mali ................................................0.0
Mauritania ......................................0.0
Moldova .........................................0.0
Mongolia ........................................0.0
Montenegro ...................................0.0
Mozambique ..................................0.0
Namibia .........................................0.0
Nepal .............................................0.0
Nicaragua ......................................0.0
Rwanda .........................................0.0
Seychelles......................................0.0
Sierra Leone ..................................0.0
Suriname .......................................0.0
Swaziland ......................................0.0
Tajikistan ........................................0.0
Timor-Leste ...................................0.0
Uganda ..........................................0.0
Uruguay .........................................0.0
Yemen ...........................................0.0
Zambia ..........................................0.0
Hong Kong SAR ............................n/a
Puerto Rico....................................n/a
Taiwan, China ................................n/a

SOURCES: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), Patent Database, January 2013; World Bank, World Development Indicators Online (retrieved
November 28, 2012)

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 351

4: Data Tables

9.03 Impact of ICTs on new organizational models
To what extent are ICTs creating new organizational models (e.g., virtual teams, remote working, telecommuting) within businesses in your
country? [1 = not at all; 7 = a significant extent] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.1

7

United Kingdom ......................... 5.6
Finland ....................................... 5.6
Qatar ......................................... 5.5
Sweden ..................................... 5.4
Netherlands ............................... 5.4
United States ............................. 5.4
Singapore .................................. 5.4
Norway ...................................... 5.4
Malaysia..................................... 5.3
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.3
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.3
Estonia....................................... 5.2
Denmark .................................... 5.2
Canada ...................................... 5.1
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.1
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.1
Luxembourg .............................. 5.0
Germany .................................... 5.0
Switzerland ................................ 5.0
Ireland........................................ 5.0
Israel .......................................... 5.0
France ....................................... 5.0
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.0
New Zealand ............................. 4.9
Iceland ....................................... 4.9
Lithuania .................................... 4.9
India........................................... 4.9
Australia ..................................... 4.9
Malta ......................................... 4.8
Belgium ..................................... 4.8
Portugal ..................................... 4.8
Puerto Rico................................ 4.8
Philippines ................................. 4.8
Brazil.......................................... 4.7
Chile .......................................... 4.7
Uruguay ..................................... 4.7
China ......................................... 4.7
Kenya ........................................ 4.6
Azerbaijan .................................. 4.6
Bahrain ...................................... 4.6
Dominican Republic ................... 4.5
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.5
Costa Rica ................................. 4.5
Guatemala ................................. 4.5
Mexico ....................................... 4.5
Jordan ....................................... 4.5
Panama ..................................... 4.5
Peru ........................................... 4.5
Austria ....................................... 4.5
Japan ........................................ 4.4
Spain ......................................... 4.4
Montenegro ............................... 4.4
South Africa ............................... 4.4
Indonesia ................................... 4.4
Colombia ................................... 4.4
Vietnam ..................................... 4.4
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.3
Mali ............................................ 4.3
Gambia, The .............................. 4.3
Oman ........................................ 4.3
Rwanda ..................................... 4.3
Mauritius .................................... 4.3
Barbados ................................... 4.2
Jamaica ..................................... 4.2
Turkey........................................ 4.2
Armenia ..................................... 4.2
Honduras ................................... 4.2
Nigeria ....................................... 4.2
Zambia ...................................... 4.2
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.2
Latvia ......................................... 4.1
Senegal ..................................... 4.1

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

352 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Cyprus ....................................... 4.1
Slovak Republic ......................... 4.1
Cambodia .................................. 4.1
El Salvador................................. 4.1
Cape Verde ............................... 4.1
Argentina ................................... 4.1
Slovenia ..................................... 4.1
Egypt ......................................... 4.0
Uganda ...................................... 4.0
Croatia ....................................... 4.0
Ecuador ..................................... 4.0
Guyana ...................................... 4.0
Hungary ..................................... 4.0
Czech Republic ......................... 4.0
Seychelles.................................. 3.9
Thailand ..................................... 3.9
Morocco .................................... 3.9
Albania....................................... 3.9
Pakistan ..................................... 3.8
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.8
Ghana ........................................ 3.8
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.8
Poland ....................................... 3.8
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 3.8
Paraguay ................................... 3.8
Mongolia .................................... 3.7
Liberia ........................................ 3.7
Italy ............................................ 3.7
Bolivia ........................................ 3.7
Moldova ..................................... 3.6
Romania .................................... 3.6
Ukraine ...................................... 3.6
Venezuela .................................. 3.6
Russian Federation .................... 3.6
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.6
Cameroon.................................. 3.6
Nepal ......................................... 3.6
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 3.6
Nicaragua .................................. 3.6
Bangladesh................................ 3.6
Tanzania .................................... 3.5
Malawi ....................................... 3.5
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 3.5
Botswana .................................. 3.5
Benin ......................................... 3.5
Namibia ..................................... 3.5
Georgia ...................................... 3.5
Ethiopia...................................... 3.4
Madagascar ............................... 3.4
Tajikistan .................................... 3.4
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.4
Suriname ................................... 3.3
Mozambique .............................. 3.3
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.3
Greece ....................................... 3.3
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.2
Kuwait ....................................... 3.1
Libya .......................................... 3.1
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.0
Serbia ........................................ 3.0
Guinea ....................................... 2.9
Lesotho ..................................... 2.9
Lebanon .................................... 2.9
Mauritania .................................. 2.9
Haiti ........................................... 2.8
Chad.......................................... 2.8
Swaziland .................................. 2.8
Sierra Leone .............................. 2.7
Gabon ....................................... 2.7
Burundi ...................................... 2.7
Yemen ....................................... 2.7
Algeria ....................................... 2.1

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.1

7

4: Data Tables

9.04 Employment in knowledge-intensive activities
Share of workforce employed in knowledge intensive activities (%) | 2008

RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Barbados6 ...................................57.6
Singapore ....................................51.0
Netherlands .................................47.2
Switzerland ..................................47.1
Iceland .........................................46.0
Denmark ......................................45.1
Sweden .......................................44.5
Finland .........................................43.8
Norway ........................................43.5
Belgium .......................................43.4
New Zealand ...............................42.9
Australia .......................................42.9
United Kingdom ...........................42.5
Canada ........................................42.4
Germany ......................................41.9
Israel ............................................41.3
France .........................................40.8
Russian Federation ......................40.7
Czech Republic ...........................40.5
Latvia ...........................................40.2
Lithuania ......................................39.6
Italy ..............................................39.6
Ireland..........................................38.8
Estonia.........................................38.8
Slovenia .......................................38.0
Japan ..........................................37.8
Austria .........................................36.7
Hungary .......................................36.7
United States ...............................36.3
United Arab Emirates ...................36.1
Hong Kong SAR ..........................36.0
Montenegro7 ...............................35.9
Malta ...........................................35.9
Slovak Republic ...........................34.6
Greece .........................................33.5
Poland .........................................32.8
Spain ...........................................32.4
Ukraine ........................................32.1
Puerto Rico..................................31.9
Lebanon9.....................................31.9
Cyprus .........................................31.4
Chile ............................................30.6
Egypt9 .........................................30.3
Croatia .........................................30.1
Serbia ..........................................28.7
Bulgaria .......................................28.6
Brunei Darussalam5 .....................28.4
Kazakhstan ..................................28.3
Moldova .......................................28.2
Costa Rica ...................................27.4
Malaysia.......................................26.8
Macedonia, FYR ..........................25.5
Portugal .......................................24.4
Oman2.........................................24.3
Qatar9..........................................24.2
Armenia3 .....................................24.1
Venezuela ....................................23.9
South Africa .................................23.7
Saudi Arabia ................................22.9
Trinidad and Tobago7 ..................22.8
Korea, Rep. .................................22.4
Georgia9 ......................................22.2
Turkey..........................................22.1
Romania ......................................21.8
Suriname6 ...................................21.6
Colombia .....................................21.6
Uruguay9 .....................................21.4
Bahrain ........................................20.7
Azerbaijan ....................................20.3
Mongolia ......................................20.2
Jamaica .......................................20.1
Philippines ...................................19.7

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

SOURCE:

Authors’ calculations based on International Labour Organisation LaborSta database (retrieved December 15, 2011)

1 1999

2 2000

3 2001

4 2002

5 2003

6 2004

7 2005

8 2006

VALUE

Sri Lanka .....................................19.7
Pakistan .......................................19.5
Brazil9 ..........................................19.3
Algeria6........................................19.1
Kuwait7........................................18.7
Peru .............................................18.5
Mexico .........................................18.4
Kyrgyz Republic8 .........................18.3
Ecuador8 .....................................18.1
Argentina8 ...................................17.7
Panama .......................................17.7
Botswana8...................................17.1
Yemen7 .......................................17.0
Namibia6 .....................................16.9
Dominican Republic9 ...................15.8
Mauritius ......................................15.8
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................15.0
Nicaragua8 ..................................14.8
Bolivia9 ........................................14.3
Paraguay .....................................14.0
Honduras7 ...................................12.8
Guyana4 ......................................12.7
El Salvador9 .................................12.5
Ethiopia8 ......................................12.4
Thailand .......................................10.8
Indonesia .......................................7.4
Vietnam6........................................7.4
China7 ...........................................7.4
Bangladesh7 ..................................7.3
Morocco ........................................6.8
Zambia2.........................................6.0
Lesotho1........................................6.0
Nepal3 ...........................................4.8
Uganda5 ........................................4.3
Tanzania8 ......................................2.6
Cambodia6 ....................................2.5
Madagascar7 .................................2.4
Albania...........................................n/a
Benin .............................................n/a
Bosnia and Herzegovina ................n/a
Burkina Faso..................................n/a
Burundi ..........................................n/a
Cameroon......................................n/a
Cape Verde ...................................n/a
Chad..............................................n/a
Côte d’Ivoire ..................................n/a
Gabon ...........................................n/a
Gambia, The ..................................n/a
Ghana ............................................n/a
Guatemala .....................................n/a
Guinea ...........................................n/a
Haiti ...............................................n/a
India...............................................n/a
Jordan ...........................................n/a
Kenya ............................................n/a
Liberia ............................................n/a
Libya ..............................................n/a
Luxembourg ..................................n/a
Malawi ...........................................n/a
Mali ................................................n/a
Mauritania ......................................n/a
Mozambique ..................................n/a
Nigeria ...........................................n/a
Rwanda .........................................n/a
Senegal .........................................n/a
Seychelles......................................n/a
Sierra Leone ..................................n/a
Swaziland ......................................n/a
Taiwan, China ................................n/a
Tajikistan ........................................n/a
Timor-Leste ...................................n/a
Zimbabwe ......................................n/a

9 2007

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 353

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Data Tables

10th pillar
Social impacts

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

4: Data Tables

10.01 Impact of ICT on access to basic services
To what extent do ICTs enable access for all citizens to basic services (health, education, financial services etc.) in your country? [1 = do not
enable access at all; 7 = enable access significantly] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.3

7

Qatar ......................................... 6.1
Singapore .................................. 6.1
Luxembourg .............................. 6.0
Switzerland ................................ 5.9
Netherlands ............................... 5.9
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.9
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.9
Estonia....................................... 5.8
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.8
Sweden ..................................... 5.8
Finland ....................................... 5.8
Norway ...................................... 5.8
Bahrain ...................................... 5.8
Malta ......................................... 5.8
Iceland ....................................... 5.6
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.6
United Kingdom ......................... 5.6
Austria ....................................... 5.6
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.5
Denmark .................................... 5.5
Israel .......................................... 5.4
Belgium ..................................... 5.4
Australia ..................................... 5.4
Portugal ..................................... 5.4
Germany .................................... 5.4
Malaysia..................................... 5.4
New Zealand ............................. 5.4
Canada ...................................... 5.3
France ....................................... 5.3
United States ............................. 5.2
Oman ........................................ 5.1
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 5.1
Barbados ................................... 5.1
Spain ......................................... 5.1
Chile .......................................... 5.0
Lithuania .................................... 5.0
Azerbaijan .................................. 4.9
Cyprus ....................................... 4.9
China ......................................... 4.8
Turkey........................................ 4.8
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.8
Japan ........................................ 4.8
Seychelles.................................. 4.8
Slovenia ..................................... 4.8
Panama ..................................... 4.8
Ireland........................................ 4.8
Uruguay ..................................... 4.7
Jordan ....................................... 4.7
Czech Republic ......................... 4.7
Rwanda ..................................... 4.7
Puerto Rico................................ 4.7
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.6
Gambia, The .............................. 4.6
Costa Rica ................................. 4.6
Vietnam ..................................... 4.6
Latvia ......................................... 4.5
Mongolia .................................... 4.4
Cape Verde ............................... 4.4
Kenya ........................................ 4.4
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 4.3
Montenegro ............................... 4.3
Tajikistan .................................... 4.3
Mauritius .................................... 4.3
India........................................... 4.3
Guyana ...................................... 4.3
Croatia ....................................... 4.3
Georgia ...................................... 4.2
Brazil.......................................... 4.2
Hungary ..................................... 4.2
Mexico ....................................... 4.2
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 4.2
Nigeria ....................................... 4.1

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

356 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Indonesia ................................... 4.1
Cambodia .................................. 4.1
Senegal ..................................... 4.1
Jamaica ..................................... 4.1
Armenia ..................................... 4.1
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.1
Philippines ................................. 4.1
Slovak Republic ......................... 4.1
Mali ............................................ 4.1
Colombia ................................... 4.1
Italy ............................................ 4.0
Kuwait ....................................... 4.0
Peru ........................................... 4.0
Dominican Republic ................... 4.0
Ecuador ..................................... 4.0
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.0
Botswana .................................. 4.0
Liberia ........................................ 3.9
Ukraine ...................................... 3.9
Morocco .................................... 3.9
Serbia ........................................ 3.9
Malawi ....................................... 3.9
Romania .................................... 3.9
Ghana ........................................ 3.8
Zambia ...................................... 3.8
El Salvador................................. 3.8
Guatemala ................................. 3.8
Bangladesh................................ 3.8
Thailand ..................................... 3.8
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.8
Namibia ..................................... 3.8
Egypt ......................................... 3.8
Moldova ..................................... 3.7
Albania....................................... 3.7
Greece ....................................... 3.7
Poland ....................................... 3.7
Uganda ...................................... 3.7
Mozambique .............................. 3.7
Argentina ................................... 3.6
Tanzania .................................... 3.6
Honduras ................................... 3.6
Nicaragua .................................. 3.5
Benin ......................................... 3.5
Russian Federation .................... 3.5
Bolivia ........................................ 3.5
Venezuela .................................. 3.5
Cameroon.................................. 3.4
Madagascar ............................... 3.4
Pakistan ..................................... 3.4
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.4
South Africa ............................... 3.4
Ethiopia...................................... 3.3
Paraguay ................................... 3.3
Burkina Faso.............................. 3.2
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 3.2
Nepal ......................................... 3.2
Suriname ................................... 3.2
Libya .......................................... 3.2
Chad.......................................... 3.2
Zimbabwe .................................. 3.2
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.1
Gabon ....................................... 3.1
Guinea ....................................... 3.1
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.1
Swaziland .................................. 3.1
Lesotho ..................................... 3.1
Mauritania .................................. 3.0
Haiti ........................................... 2.8
Lebanon .................................... 2.7
Algeria ....................................... 2.6
Yemen ....................................... 2.5
Burundi ...................................... 2.4

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.3

7

4: Data Tables

10.02 Internet access in schools
How would you rate the level of access to the Internet in schools in your country? [1 = very limited; 7 = extensive] | 2011–2012 weighted
average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.1

7

Iceland ....................................... 6.5
Estonia....................................... 6.4
Finland ....................................... 6.4
Netherlands ............................... 6.3
Singapore .................................. 6.3
Switzerland ................................ 6.2
Korea, Rep. ............................... 6.2
United Kingdom ......................... 6.2
Taiwan, China ............................ 6.1
Qatar ......................................... 6.1
Sweden ..................................... 6.1
Australia ..................................... 6.1
Canada ...................................... 6.1
Luxembourg .............................. 6.0
Uruguay ..................................... 6.0
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 6.0
Norway ...................................... 5.9
Malta ......................................... 5.9
Denmark .................................... 5.9
Slovenia ..................................... 5.8
Czech Republic ......................... 5.8
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.8
Lithuania .................................... 5.8
United States ............................. 5.7
Austria ....................................... 5.7
Portugal ..................................... 5.7
New Zealand ............................. 5.7
Belgium ..................................... 5.7
Slovak Republic ......................... 5.5
Hungary ..................................... 5.4
China ......................................... 5.4
Latvia ......................................... 5.4
Barbados ................................... 5.3
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 5.3
Bahrain ...................................... 5.3
Cyprus ....................................... 5.2
Panama ..................................... 5.2
Malaysia..................................... 5.1
Israel .......................................... 5.1
Oman ........................................ 5.0
Vietnam ..................................... 5.0
Saudi Arabia .............................. 4.9
Japan ........................................ 4.9
Jordan ....................................... 4.9
Germany .................................... 4.8
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 4.8
Spain ......................................... 4.8
Chile .......................................... 4.7
Croatia ....................................... 4.7
Bulgaria ..................................... 4.7
Ireland........................................ 4.6
Seychelles.................................. 4.6
Poland ....................................... 4.5
Albania....................................... 4.5
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 4.5
Indonesia ................................... 4.5
Puerto Rico................................ 4.5
Costa Rica ................................. 4.5
France ....................................... 4.4
Montenegro ............................... 4.4
Moldova ..................................... 4.4
Ukraine ...................................... 4.4
Thailand ..................................... 4.3
Romania .................................... 4.3
Georgia ...................................... 4.3
Rwanda ..................................... 4.3
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.3
Turkey........................................ 4.3
Kuwait ....................................... 4.2
Russian Federation .................... 4.2
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 4.2
Mauritius .................................... 4.1

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.1

7

Philippines ................................. 4.1
Jamaica ..................................... 4.1
India........................................... 4.0
Colombia ................................... 4.0
Gambia, The .............................. 4.0
Armenia ..................................... 3.9
Azerbaijan .................................. 3.9
Mongolia .................................... 3.9
Greece ....................................... 3.9
Mexico ....................................... 3.8
Cambodia .................................. 3.8
Senegal ..................................... 3.8
Kenya ........................................ 3.8
Italy ............................................ 3.8
Argentina ................................... 3.7
Brazil.......................................... 3.7
Peru ........................................... 3.7
Cape Verde ............................... 3.6
Guyana ...................................... 3.6
Serbia ........................................ 3.6
Pakistan ..................................... 3.6
Tajikistan .................................... 3.6
Morocco .................................... 3.5
Botswana .................................. 3.5
Lebanon .................................... 3.5
Ecuador ..................................... 3.5
Nigeria ....................................... 3.5
Bolivia ........................................ 3.4
Venezuela .................................. 3.4
Dominican Republic ................... 3.4
El Salvador................................. 3.4
Nepal ......................................... 3.3
Sri Lanka ................................... 3.3
Mali ............................................ 3.3
Zambia ...................................... 3.2
Liberia ........................................ 3.2
Ghana ........................................ 3.2
Namibia ..................................... 3.1
South Africa ............................... 3.1
Nicaragua .................................. 3.1
Guatemala ................................. 3.1
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 3.1
Honduras ................................... 3.0
Egypt ......................................... 3.0
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 2.9
Uganda ...................................... 2.9
Ethiopia...................................... 2.8
Tanzania .................................... 2.8
Mozambique .............................. 2.7
Bangladesh................................ 2.6
Zimbabwe .................................. 2.6
Malawi ....................................... 2.6
Suriname ................................... 2.5
Swaziland .................................. 2.5
Benin ......................................... 2.5
Timor-Leste ............................... 2.4
Lesotho ..................................... 2.4
Cameroon.................................. 2.4
Paraguay ................................... 2.4
Algeria ....................................... 2.4
Madagascar ............................... 2.2
Libya .......................................... 2.2
Mauritania .................................. 2.1
Sierra Leone .............................. 1.9
Haiti ........................................... 1.9
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 1.8
Guinea ....................................... 1.7
Yemen ....................................... 1.7
Burkina Faso.............................. 1.7
Gabon ....................................... 1.7
Burundi ...................................... 1.5
Chad.......................................... 1.5

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 357

4: Data Tables

10.03 ICT use and government efficiency
To what extent does the use of ICTs by the government improve the quality of government services to citizens (e.g., speeding-up of
delivery time, reducing errors, introducing new online services, enhancing transparency) in your country? [1 = not at all; 7 = has generated
considerable improvements] | 2011–2012 weighted average
RANK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

1

MEAN: 4.2

7

Singapore .................................. 6.1
Qatar ......................................... 6.0
United Arab Emirates ................. 5.9
Malta ......................................... 5.8
Korea, Rep. ............................... 5.7
Bahrain ...................................... 5.6
Saudi Arabia .............................. 5.6
Malaysia..................................... 5.6
Taiwan, China ............................ 5.5
Estonia....................................... 5.5
Sweden ..................................... 5.5
Portugal ..................................... 5.4
Rwanda ..................................... 5.4
Austria ....................................... 5.3
Finland ....................................... 5.3
Luxembourg .............................. 5.2
United Kingdom ......................... 5.2
Chile .......................................... 5.2
Azerbaijan .................................. 5.2
Oman ........................................ 5.1
Switzerland ................................ 5.1
Hong Kong SAR ........................ 5.1
Netherlands ............................... 5.1
New Zealand ............................. 5.1
Norway ...................................... 5.1
Denmark .................................... 5.0
Iceland ....................................... 5.0
France ....................................... 5.0
Cape Verde ............................... 5.0
Israel .......................................... 4.9
Sri Lanka ................................... 4.9
Canada ...................................... 4.9
Lithuania .................................... 4.9
Turkey........................................ 4.9
Kazakhstan ................................ 4.8
Georgia ...................................... 4.7
Jordan ....................................... 4.7
Panama ..................................... 4.7
China ......................................... 4.7
Montenegro ............................... 4.7
United States ............................. 4.7
Gambia, The .............................. 4.7
Ireland........................................ 4.7
Germany .................................... 4.6
Brunei Darussalam ..................... 4.6
Australia ..................................... 4.6
Barbados ................................... 4.5
Spain ......................................... 4.5
Armenia ..................................... 4.5
Belgium ..................................... 4.5
Senegal ..................................... 4.5
Puerto Rico................................ 4.5
Brazil.......................................... 4.4
India........................................... 4.4
Kenya ........................................ 4.4
Mauritius .................................... 4.4
Mexico ....................................... 4.4
Japan ........................................ 4.4
Tajikistan .................................... 4.4
Dominican Republic ................... 4.3
Iran, Islamic Rep. ....................... 4.3
Cyprus ....................................... 4.3
Macedonia, FYR ........................ 4.3
Uruguay ..................................... 4.3
Albania....................................... 4.3
Jamaica ..................................... 4.3
Seychelles.................................. 4.3
Mongolia .................................... 4.2
Uganda ...................................... 4.2
Botswana .................................. 4.2
Slovenia ..................................... 4.2
Ecuador ..................................... 4.2

RANK

73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011 and 2012 editions

358 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

VALUE

Colombia ................................... 4.2
Thailand ..................................... 4.1
Mali ............................................ 4.1
Cambodia .................................. 4.1
Morocco .................................... 4.1
Zambia ...................................... 4.1
Burkina Faso.............................. 4.1
Hungary ..................................... 4.1
Guyana ...................................... 4.1
Indonesia ................................... 4.1
Philippines ................................. 4.1
Liberia ........................................ 4.1
Latvia ......................................... 4.0
Vietnam ..................................... 4.0
Costa Rica ................................. 4.0
Czech Republic ......................... 4.0
Nigeria ....................................... 3.9
Ethiopia...................................... 3.9
Cameroon.................................. 3.9
Italy ............................................ 3.9
Slovak Republic ......................... 3.8
Egypt ......................................... 3.8
Ghana ........................................ 3.8
Bosnia and Herzegovina ............ 3.8
South Africa ............................... 3.8
Bulgaria ..................................... 3.8
Peru ........................................... 3.8
Moldova ..................................... 3.7
Trinidad and Tobago.................. 3.7
Guatemala ................................. 3.7
Tanzania .................................... 3.7
Bangladesh................................ 3.7
Timor-Leste ............................... 3.6
Mozambique .............................. 3.6
Romania .................................... 3.6
Côte d’Ivoire .............................. 3.6
Honduras ................................... 3.6
Russian Federation .................... 3.6
Serbia ........................................ 3.6
Benin ......................................... 3.5
El Salvador................................. 3.5
Poland ....................................... 3.5
Kuwait ....................................... 3.5
Ukraine ...................................... 3.5
Croatia ....................................... 3.5
Sierra Leone .............................. 3.5
Paraguay ................................... 3.4
Malawi ....................................... 3.4
Pakistan ..................................... 3.4
Greece ....................................... 3.4
Bolivia ........................................ 3.4
Mauritania .................................. 3.4
Nicaragua .................................. 3.3
Argentina ................................... 3.2
Nepal ......................................... 3.2
Madagascar ............................... 3.2
Guinea ....................................... 3.2
Gabon ....................................... 3.2
Chad.......................................... 3.2
Namibia ..................................... 3.1
Venezuela .................................. 3.0
Lesotho ..................................... 3.0
Libya .......................................... 2.8
Kyrgyz Republic ......................... 2.8
Zimbabwe .................................. 2.7
Yemen ....................................... 2.7
Swaziland .................................. 2.7
Burundi ...................................... 2.6
Suriname ................................... 2.6
Haiti ........................................... 2.5
Lebanon .................................... 2.3
Algeria ....................................... 2.3

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

1

MEAN: 4.2

7

4: Data Tables

10.04 E-Participation Index
The E-Participation Index assesses, on a 0-to-1 (best) scale, the quality, relevance, and usefulness of government websites in providing
online information and participatory tools and services to their citizens | 2012
RANK

1
1
3
3
5
5
7
8
8
8
11
11
11
11
15
15
15
15
19
19
19
22
22
24
25
25
25
28
28
30
31
31
31
34
34
36
36
38
38
38
41
41
43
43
43
46
46
46
46
46
51
51
51
54
54
54
54
58
58
58
58
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
62
70
70
70
SOURCE:

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

RANK

Korea, Rep. .................................1.00
Netherlands .................................1.00
Kazakhstan ..................................0.95
Singapore ....................................0.95
United Kingdom ...........................0.92
United States ...............................0.92
Israel ............................................0.89
Australia .......................................0.76
Estonia.........................................0.76
Germany ......................................0.76
Colombia .....................................0.74
Finland .........................................0.74
Japan ..........................................0.74
United Arab Emirates ...................0.74
Canada ........................................0.68
Egypt ...........................................0.68
Norway ........................................0.68
Sweden .......................................0.68
Bahrain ........................................0.66
Chile ............................................0.66
Russian Federation ......................0.66
Qatar ...........................................0.63
Saudi Arabia ................................0.63
Mongolia ......................................0.61
France .........................................0.58
Mexico .........................................0.58
New Zealand ...............................0.58
Denmark ......................................0.55
El Salvador...................................0.55
Lithuania ......................................0.53
Brazil............................................0.50
Malaysia.......................................0.50
Spain ...........................................0.50
Brunei Darussalam .......................0.47
Dominican Republic .....................0.47
Hungary .......................................0.45
Oman ..........................................0.45
Luxembourg ................................0.39
Moldova .......................................0.39
Peru .............................................0.39
Austria .........................................0.37
Portugal .......................................0.37
Ethiopia........................................0.34
Greece .........................................0.34
Switzerland ..................................0.34
Costa Rica ...................................0.32
Lebanon ......................................0.32
Montenegro .................................0.32
Panama .......................................0.32
Thailand .......................................0.32
Argentina .....................................0.29
Croatia .........................................0.29
Kyrgyz Republic ...........................0.29
Czech Republic ...........................0.26
Italy ..............................................0.26
Malta ...........................................0.26
Venezuela ....................................0.26
Cape Verde .................................0.24
Ecuador .......................................0.24
Guatemala ...................................0.24
Serbia ..........................................0.24
Bolivia ..........................................0.21
China ...........................................0.21
Georgia ........................................0.21
Indonesia .....................................0.21
Latvia ...........................................0.21
Philippines ...................................0.21
Senegal .......................................0.21
Slovenia .......................................0.21
India.............................................0.18
Iran, Islamic Rep. .........................0.18
Kuwait .........................................0.18

70
70
70
76
76
76
76
76
81
81
81
81
81
81
81
81
81
81
91
91
91
91
91
96
96
96
96
96
96
96
96
96
96
106
106
106
106
106
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
111
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
124
n/a
n/a
n/a

COUNTRY/ECONOMY

VALUE

Nigeria .........................................0.18
Poland .........................................0.18
Uruguay .......................................0.18
Burkina Faso................................0.16
Iceland .........................................0.16
Paraguay .....................................0.16
South Africa .................................0.16
Ukraine ........................................0.16
Azerbaijan ....................................0.13
Belgium .......................................0.13
Côte d’Ivoire ................................0.13
Honduras .....................................0.13
Ireland..........................................0.13
Macedonia, FYR ..........................0.13
Mozambique ................................0.13
Nicaragua ....................................0.13
Pakistan .......................................0.13
Slovak Republic ...........................0.13
Albania.........................................0.11
Gabon .........................................0.11
Ghana ..........................................0.11
Jordan .........................................0.11
Vietnam .......................................0.11
Bangladesh..................................0.08
Benin ...........................................0.08
Cyprus .........................................0.08
Mauritius ......................................0.08
Romania ......................................0.08
Seychelles....................................0.08
Sri Lanka .....................................0.08
Tanzania ......................................0.08
Trinidad and Tobago....................0.08
Uganda ........................................0.08
Algeria .........................................0.05
Kenya ..........................................0.05
Sierra Leone ................................0.05
Swaziland ....................................0.05
Turkey..........................................0.05
Barbados .....................................0.03
Botswana ....................................0.03
Bulgaria .......................................0.03
Cameroon....................................0.03
Chad............................................0.03
Lesotho .......................................0.03
Liberia ..........................................0.03
Madagascar .................................0.03
Namibia .......................................0.03
Nepal ...........................................0.03
Rwanda .......................................0.03
Zambia ........................................0.03
Zimbabwe ....................................0.03
Armenia .......................................0.00
Bosnia and Herzegovina ..............0.00
Burundi ........................................0.00
Cambodia ....................................0.00
Gambia, The ................................0.00
Guinea .........................................0.00
Guyana ........................................0.00
Haiti .............................................0.00
Jamaica .......................................0.00
Libya ............................................0.00
Malawi .........................................0.00
Mali ..............................................0.00
Mauritania ....................................0.00
Morocco ......................................0.00
Suriname .....................................0.00
Tajikistan ......................................0.00
Timor-Leste .................................0.00
Yemen .........................................0.00
Hong Kong SAR ............................n/a
Puerto Rico....................................n/a
Taiwan, China ................................n/a

United Nations, United Nations E-Government Survey 2012: E-Government for the People

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 359

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Technical Notes and Sources

The present section complements the data tables by
providing additional information for all 54 indicators that
enter the composition of the Networked Readiness Index
2013.
The number next to the indicator corresponds to the
number of the data table that reports ranks and scores
for all economies on this particular indicator.
The data used in this Report represent the most
recent available figures from various international agencies and national authorities at the time when the data
collection took place. It is possible that some data have
been updated or revised since then.

1.06 Intellectual property protection
How would you rate intellectual property protection, including
anti-counterfeiting measures, in your country? [1 = very weak; 7
= very strong] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

1.07 Software piracy rate
Unlicensed software units as a percentage of total software
units installed | 2011
This measure covers piracy of all packaged software that runs on
personal computers (PCs), including desktops, laptops, and ultraportables, including netbooks. This includes operating systems;
systems software such as databases and security packages;
business applications; and consumer applications such as games,
personal finance, and reference software. The study does not
include software that runs on servers or mainframes. For more
information about the methodology, refer to the study available at
http://portal.bsa.org/globalpiracy2011/.

1st pillar: Political and regulatory environment
1.01 Effectiveness of law-making bodies

Source: Business Software Alliance, Shadow Market: 2011 BSA
Global Software Piracy Study (Ninth edition)

How effective is your national parliament/congress as a lawmaking institution? [1 = very ineffective; 7 = very effective—
among the best in the world] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

1.08 Number of procedures to enforce a contract
Number of procedures to resolve a dispute, counted from the
moment the plaintiff files a lawsuit in court until payment | 2012
The list of procedural steps compiled for each economy traces
the chronology of a commercial dispute before the relevant court.
A procedure is defined as any interaction, required by law or
commonly used in practice, between the parties or between them
and the judge or court officer. This includes steps to file and serve
the case, steps for trial and judgment, and steps necessary to
enforce the judgment. For more details about the methodology
employed and the assumptions made to compute this indicator,
visit http://www.doingbusiness.org/methodologysurveys/.

1.02 Laws relating to ICTs
How would you assess your country’s laws relating to the
use of ICTs (e.g., electronic commerce, digital signatures,
consumer protection)? [1 = highly undeveloped; 7 = welldeveloped] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

1.03 Judicial independence
To what extent is the judiciary in your country independent
from influences of members of government, citizens, or firms?
[1 = heavily influenced; 7 = entirely independent] | 2011–2012
weighted average

Source: World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing
Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size
Enterprises

1.09 Time to enforce a contract

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

1.04 Efficiency of legal framework in settling disputes
How efficient is the legal framework in your country for private
businesses in settling disputes? [1 = extremely inefficient; 7 =
highly efficient] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

1.05 Efficiency of legal framework in challenging regulations

Number of days to resolve a dispute, counted from the moment
the plaintiff decides to file the lawsuit in court until payment |
2012
Time is recorded in calendar days, counted from the moment
the plaintiff decides to file the lawsuit in court until payment.
This includes both the days when actions take place and the
waiting periods between. For more details about the methodology
employed and the assumptions made to compute this indicator,
visit http://www.doingbusiness.org/methodologysurveys/.
Source: World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing
Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size
Enterprises

How efficient is the legal framework in your country for private
businesses in challenging the legality of government actions
and/or regulations? [1 = extremely inefficient; 7 = highly
efficient] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 361

Technical Notes and Sources

2nd pillar: Business and innovation environment

2.06 Intensity of local competition

2.01 Availability of latest technologies
To what extent are the latest technologies available in your
country? [1 = not available; 7 = widely available] | 2011–2012
weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

How would you assess the intensity of competition in the local
markets in your country? [1 = limited in most industries; 7 =
intense in most industries] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

2.07 Tertiary education enrollment rate
Gross tertiary education enrollment rate (%) | 2010

2.02 Venture capital availability
In your country, how easy is it for entrepreneurs with innovative
but risky projects to find venture capital? [1 = very difficult; 7 =
very easy] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

2.03 Total tax rate
Sum of profit tax, labor tax and social contributions, property
taxes, turnover taxes, and other taxes, as a share (%) of
commercial profits | 2012
The total tax rate measures the amount of taxes and mandatory
contributions borne by the business in the second year of
operation, expressed as a share of commercial profit. Doing
Business 2013 reports the total tax rate for calendar year 2011.
The total amount of taxes borne is the sum of all the different
taxes and contributions payable after accounting for allowable
deductions and exemptions. The taxes withheld (such as personal
income tax) or collected by the company and remitted to the
tax authorities (such as value-added tax, sales tax, or goods
and service tax) but not borne by the company are excluded.
The taxes included can be divided into 5 categories: profit or
corporate income taxes; social contributions and labor taxes paid
by the employer (in respect of which all mandatory contributions
are included, even if paid to a private entity such as a requited
pension fund); property taxes; turnover taxes; and other taxes
(such as municipal fees and vehicle and fuel taxes).For more
details about the methodology employed and the assumptions
made to compute this indicator, visit http://www.doingbusiness.
org/methodologysurveys/.
Source: World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing
Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size
Enterprises

Tertiary enrollment rate is the ratio of total enrollment, regardless
of age, to the population of the age group that officially
corresponds to the tertiary education level. Tertiary education,
whether or not leading to an advanced research qualification,
normally requires, as a minimum condition of admission, the
successful completion of education at the secondary level.
Sources: United Nations Education, Science and Culture
Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO Institute for Statistics Data
Centre (accessed November 29, 2011); UNESCO, UNESCO
Science Report 2010: The Current Status of Science around the
World; World Bank, World Development Indicators 2009; national
sources

2.08 Quality of management schools
How would you assess the quality of management or business
schools in your country? [1 = poor; 7 = excellent—among the
best in the world] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

2.09 Government procurement of advanced technology
products
Do government procurement decisions foster innovation in
your country? [1 = no, not at all; 7 = yes, extremely effectively] |
2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

3rd pillar: Infrastructure and digital content
3.01 Electricity production
Electricity production (kWh) per capita | 2009

Time is recorded in calendar days. The measure captures the
median duration that incorporation lawyers indicate is necessary
in practice to complete a procedure with minimum follow-up with
government agencies and no extra payments. For more details
about the methodology employed and the assumptions made
to compute this indicator, visit http://www.doingbusiness.org/
methodologysurveys/.

Electricity production is measured at the terminals of all alternator
sets in a station. In addition to hydropower, coal, oil, gas, and
nuclear power generation, it covers generation by geothermal,
solar, wind, and tide and wave energy as well as that from
combustible renewables and waste. Production includes the
output of electricity plants designed to produce electricity only, as
well as that of combined heat and power plants. Total electricity
production is then divided by total population. Population figures
are from the World Bank’s World Development Indicators Online
(retrieved November 28, 2012).

Source: World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing
Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size
Enterprises

Sources: The World Bank, World Development Indicators Online
(accessed November 28, 2012); US Central Intelligence Agency
(CIA), The World Factbook (accessed November 28, 2012)

2.04 Time required to start a business
Number of days required to start a business | 2012

2.05 Number of procedures required to start a business
Number of procedures required to start a business | 2012
A procedure is defined as any interaction of the company
founders with external parties (e.g., government agencies,
lawyers, auditors, or notaries). For more details about the
methodology employed and the assumptions made to
compute this indicator, visit http://www.doingbusiness.org/
methodologysurveys/.
Source: World Bank/International Finance Corporation, Doing
Business 2013: Smarter Regulations for Small and Medium-Size
Enterprises

362 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

3.02 Mobile network coverage rate
Percentage of total population covered by a mobile network
signal | 2011
This indicator measures the percentage of inhabitants who are
within range of a mobile cellular signal, irrespective of whether
or not they are subscribers. This is calculated by dividing the
number of inhabitants within range of a mobile cellular signal by
the total population. Note that this is not the same as the mobile
subscription density or penetration.
Source: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December
2012 edition)

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Technical Notes and Sources

3.03 International Internet bandwidth

4.03 Internet and telephony sectors competition index

International Internet bandwidth (kb/s) per Internet user | 2011

Level of competition index for Internet services, international
long distance services, and mobile telephone services on a
0-to-2 (best) scale | As of 2011

International Internet bandwidth is the sum of capacity of all
Internet exchanges offering international bandwidth measured in
kilobits per second (kb/s).

This variable measures the degree of liberalization in 19 categories
of ICT services, including 3G telephony, retail Internet access
services, international long distance calls, and international
gateways. For each economy, the level of competition in each
of the categories is assessed as follows: monopoly, partial
competition, and full competition. The results reflect the situation
as of 2011. The index is calculated as the average of points
obtained in each of the 19 categories for which data is available.
Full liberalization across all categories yields a score of 2, the best
possible score. For more information, consult http://www.itu.int/
ITU-D/ICTEYE/Reports.aspx.

Source: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December
2012 edition)

3.04 Secure Internet servers
Secure Internet servers per million population | 2011
Secure Internet servers are servers using encryption technology in
Internet transactions.
Sources: The World Bank, World Development Indicators Online
(accessed November 28, 2012); national sources

Source: Authors’ calculations based on International
Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World Telecommunication
Regulatory Database (accessed November 29, 2012).

3.05 Accessibility of digital content
In your country, how accessible is digital content (e.g., text and
audio-visual content, software products) via multiple platforms
(e.g., fixed-line Internet, wireless Internet, mobile network,
satellite)? [1 = not accessible at all; 7 = widely accessible] |
2011–2012 weighted average

5th pillar: Skills
5.01 Quality of the educational system
How well does the educational system in your country meet the
needs of a competitive economy? [1 = not well at all; 7 = very
well] | 2011–2012 weighted average

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

4th pillar: Affordability

5.02 Quality of math and science education

4.01 Mobile cellular tariffs

How would you assess the quality of math and science
education in your country’s schools? [1 = poor; 7 = excellent—
among the best in the world] | 2011–2012 weighted average

Average per-minute cost of different types of mobile cellular
calls (PPP $) | 2011
This measure is constructed by first taking the average per-minute
cost of a local call to another mobile cellular phone on the same
network (on-net) and on another network (off-net). This amount
is then averaged with the per-minute cost of a local call to a
fixed telephone line. All the tariffs are for calls placed during peak
hours and based on a basic, representative mobile cellular prepaid subscription service. The amount is adjusted for purchasing
power parity (PPP) and expressed in current international
dollars. PPP figures were sourced from the World Bank’s World
Development Indicators Online (retrieved November 29, 2012)
and the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic Outlook
(October 2012 edition).

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

5.03 Secondary enrollment rate
Secondary education gross enrollment rate (%) | 2010
The reported value corresponds to the ratio of total secondary
enrollment, regardless of age, to the population of the age
group that officially corresponds to the secondary education
level. Secondary education (ISCED levels 2 and 3) completes
the provision of basic education that began at the primary
level, and aims to lay the foundations for lifelong learning and
human development, by offering more subject- or skills-oriented
instruction using more specialized teachers.

Sources: Authors’ calculations based on International
Telecommunication Union, ITU World Telecommunication/ICT
Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition); International
Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook (October 2012 edition);
World Bank, World Development Indicators Online (accessed
November 29, 2012); and national sources

Sources: United Nations Education, Science and Culture
Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO Institute for Statistics Data
Centre (accessed November 29, 2012); UNESCO, UNESCO
Science Report 2010: The Current Status of Science around the
World; national sources

4.02 Fixed broadband Internet tariffs
Monthly subscription charge for fixed (wired) broadband
Internet service (PPP $) | 2011

5.04 Adult literacy rate

Fixed (wired) broadband is considered any dedicated connection
to the Internet at downstream speeds equal to, or greater than,
256 kilobits per second, using DSL. The amount is adjusted
for purchasing power parity (PPP) and expressed in current
international dollars. PPP figures were sourced from the World
Bank’s World Development Indicators Online (retrieved November
29, 2012) and the International Monetary Fund’s World Economic
Outlook (October 2012 edition).
Sources: Authors’ calculations based on International
Telecommunication Union, ITU World Telecommunication/ICT
Indicators Database 2012 (December 2012 edition); International
Monetary Fund, World Economic Outlook (October 2012 edition);
World Bank, World Development Indicators Online (retrieved
November 29, 2012); and national sources

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Adult literacy rate (%) | 2010
Adult literacy is defined as the percentage of the population
aged 15 years and over who can both read and write with
understanding a short, simple statement on his/her everyday life.
For OECD member countries, when data are missing, we apply
a value of 99 percent for the purposes of calculating the NRI.
This is in line with the approach adopted by the United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP) in calculating the 2009 edition
of the Human Development Index. In the corresponding table,
those countries are identified by an asterisk.
Sources: United Nations Education, Science and Culture
Organization (UNESCO), UNESCO Institute for Statistics Data
Centre (accessed November 29, 2012); national sources

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 363

Technical Notes and Sources

6th pillar: Individual usage

6.06 Mobile broadband Internet subscriptions
Mobile broadband Internet subscriptions per 100 population |
2011

6.01 Mobile telephone subscriptions
Mobile telephone subscriptions (post-paid and pre-paid) per
100 population | 2011
A mobile telephone subscription refers to a subscription to a
public mobile telephone service that provides access to the
Public Switched Telephone Network using cellular technology,
including number of pre-paid SIM cards active during the past
three months. This includes both analog and digital cellular
systems (IMT-2000, Third Generation, 3G) and 4G subscriptions,
but excludes mobile broadband subscriptions via data cards
or USB modems. Subscriptions to public mobile data services,
private trunked mobile radio, telepoint or radio paging, and
telemetry services are also excluded. It includes all mobile cellular
subscriptions that offer voice communications.
Source: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December
2012 edition)

Active mobile-broadband subscriptions refers to the sum of
standard mobile-broadband and dedicated mobile-broadband
subscriptions to the public Internet. It covers actual subscribers,
not potential subscribers, even though the latter may have
broadband enabled-handsets.
Source: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December
2012 edition)

6.07 Use of virtual social networks
How widely used are virtual social networks (e.g.,
Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn) for professional and personal
communications in your country? [1 = not used at all; 7 = used
widely] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

6.02 Internet users

7th pillar: Business usage

Percentage of individuals using the Internet | 2011
Internet users are people with access to the worldwide network.
Source: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December
2012 edition)

6.03 Households with a personal computer
Percentage of households equipped with a personal computer
| 2010
The proportion of households with a computer is calculated
by dividing the number of households with a computer by the
total number of households. A computer refers to a desktop or
a laptop computer. It does not include equipment with some
embedded computing abilities such as mobile cellular phones,
personal digital assistants (PDAs), or TV sets.
Sources: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December
2012 edition) and ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators
Database 2011 (December 2011 edition); national sources

6.04 Households with Internet access
Percentage of households with Internet access at home | 2011
The share of households with Internet access at home is
calculated by dividing the number of in-scope households with
Internet access by the total number of in-scope households.
Sources: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December
2012 edition) and ITU World Telecommunication/ICT Indicators
Database 2011 (December 2011 edition); national sources

6.05 Fixed broadband Internet subscriptions
Fixed broadband Internet subscriptions per 100 population |
2011
This refers to total fixed (wired) broadband Internet subscriptions
(that is, subscriptions to high-speed access to the public
Internet—a TCP/IP connection—at downstream speeds equal to,
or greater than 256 kb/s).
Source: International Telecommunication Union (ITU), ITU World
Telecommunication/ICT Indicators Database 2012 (December
2012 edition)

7.01 Firm-level technology absorption
To what extent do businesses in your country absorb new
technology? [1 = not at all; 7 = aggressively absorb] | 2011–
2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

7.02 Capacity for innovation
In your country, how do companies obtain technology? [1 =
exclusively from licensing or imitating foreign companies; 7 =
by conducting formal research and pioneering their own new
products and processes] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

7.03 PCT patents applications
Number of applications filed under the Patent Cooperation
Treaty (PCT) per million population | 2009-2010 average
This measures the total count of applications filed under the
Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT), by priority date and inventor
nationality, using fractional count if an application is filed by
multiple inventors. The average count of applications filed in 2009
and 2010 is divided by population, using figures for 2010 from
the World Bank’s World Development Indicators Online (retrieved
November 28, 2012).
Sources: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), Patent Database, January 2013; World
Bank, World Development Indicators Online (retrieved November
28, 2012)

7.04 Business-to-business Internet use
To what extent do businesses in your country use ICTs for
communicating and carrying out transactions with other
businesses? [1 = not at all; 7 = extensively] | 2012
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2012
edition

7.05 Business-to-consumer Internet use
To what extent do businesses in your country use the Internet
for selling their goods and services to consumers? [1 = not at
all; 7 = extensively] | 2012
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2012
edition

364 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Technical Notes and Sources

Sources: Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD), Patent Database, January 2013; World
Bank, World Development Indicators Online (retrieved November
28, 2012)

7.06 Extent of staff training
to what extent do companies in your country invest in training
and employee development? [1 = hardly at all; 7 = to a great
extent] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

9.03 Impact of ICTs on new organizational models
To what extent are ICTs creating new organizational models
(e.g., virtual teams, remote working, telecommuting) within
businesses in your country? [1 = not at all; 7 = a significant
extent] | 2011–2012 weighted average

8th pillar: Government usage
8.01 Importance of ICTs to government vision of the future
To what extent does the government have a clear
implementation plan for utilizing ICTs to improve your country’s
overall competitiveness? [1 = no plan; 7 = clear plan] | 2011–
2012 weighted average

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

9.04 Employment in knowledge-intensive activities
Share of workforce employed in knowledge intensive activities
(%) | 2008

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

Count of people employed in categories 0 to 3 as a percentage
of total people employed, according to ISCO-1968, ISCO-88,
and NSCO (excluding 0 Armed forces in ISCO-88). Categories
included: ISCO-1968: (0/1) Professional, technical and related
workers; (2) Administrative and managerial workers; and (3)
Clerical and related workers. ISCO-88: (1) Legislators, senior
officials and managers; (2) Professionals, and (3) Technicians and
associate professionals.

8.02 Government Online Service Index
The Government Online Service Index assesses the quality
of government’s delivery of online services on a 0-to-1 (best)
scale | 2012
According to the United Nations’ Public Administration Network,
the Government Online Service Index captures a government’s
performance in delivering online services to the citizens. There are
four stages of service delivery, Emerging, Enhanced, Transactional
and Connected. Online services are assigned to each stage
according to their degree of sophistication, from the more basic
to the more sophisticated. In each country, the performance of
the government in each of the four stages is measured as the
number of services provided as a percentage of the maximum
services in the corresponding stage. Examples of services include
online presence, deployment of multimedia content, governments’
solicitation of citizen input, widespread data sharing, and use of
social networking. For more information about the methodology,
consult www2.unpan.org/egovkb/datacenter/CountryView.aspx.

Source: Authors’ calculations based on International Labour
Organisation LaborSta database (access December 15th, 2011)

10th pillar: Social impacts
10.01 Impact of ICTs on access to basic services
To what extent do ICTs enable access for all citizens to basic
services (health, education, financial services, etc.) in your
country? [1 = do not enable access at all; 7 = enable access
significantly] | 2011–2012 weighted average
Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

Source: United Nations, United Nations E-Government Survey
2012: E-Government for the People

10.02 Internet access in schools
8.03 Government success in ICT promotion

How would you rate the level of access to the Internet in
schools in your country? [1 = very limited; 7 = extensive] |
2011–2012 weighted average

How successful is the government in promoting the use of
information and communication technologies (ICTs) in your
country? [1 = not successful at all; 7 = very successful] | 2012

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2012
edition

10.03 ICT use and government efficiency
To what extent does the use of ICTs by the government
improve the quality of government services to citizens (e.g.,
speeding-up of delivery time, reducing errors, introducing new
online services, enhancing transparency) in your country? [1
= not at all; 7 = has generated considerable improvements] |
2011–2012 weighted average

9th pillar: Economic impacts
9.01 Impact of ICTs on new services and products
To what extent are ICTs creating new business models,
services and products in your country? [1 = not at all; 7 = a
significant extent] | 2011–2012 weighted average

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

Source: World Economic Forum, Executive Opinion Survey, 2011
and 2012 editions

10.04 E-Participation Index

9.02 PCT ICT patent applications
Number of applications for information and communication
technology–related patents filed under the Patent Cooperation
Treaty (PCT) per million population | 2009-2010 average
This measures the count of applications filed under the
Patent Cooperation Treaty (PCT) in the technology domain of
information and communication technologies, by priority date
and inventor nationality, using fractional count if an application
is filed by multiple inventors. For more information, consult
www.oecd.org/sti/innovationinsciencetechnologyandindustry/
oecdpatentdatabases.htm. The average count of applications
filed in 2009 and 2010 is divided by population, using figures for
2010 from the World Bank’s World Development Indicators Online
(retrieved November 28, 2012).

The E-Participation Index assesses, on a 0-to-1 (best) scale,
the quality, relevance, and usefulness of government websites
in providing online information and participatory tools and
services to their citizens | 2012
According to the United Nations, the E-Participation Index
assesses the quality and usefulness of information and services
provided by a country for the purpose of engaging its citizens in
public policy making through the use of e-government programs.
As such it is indicative of both the capacity and the willingness
of the state in encouraging the citizen in promoting deliberative,
participatory decision-making in public policy and of the reach
of its own socially inclusive governance program. For more
information about the methodology, consult www2.unpan.org/
egovkb/datacenter/CountryView.aspx.
Source: United Nations, United Nations E-Government Survey
2012: E-Government for the People

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 365

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

About the Authors

Scott C. Beardsley
Scott Beardsley is a Director in McKinsey & Company’s
Brussels Office and a member of McKinsey’s global
Board of Directors (Shareholders Council). Since joining
the firm in 1989, he has been particularly active in
helping clients around the world on a range of strategy,
regulation, stakeholder management, business in
society, and performance transformation topics in the
telecommunications, technology, and media sectors.
He is a global leader of McKinsey’s telecommunication
practice, and has been the leader of McKinsey’s Strategy
practice in Europe, the Middle East, and Africa for the
past several years. He has co-chaired the personnel
committees that elect and evaluate McKinsey partners
as well as the committee that elects Directors (Senior
Partners). Currently he leads all the leadership development,
training, and learning programs for McKinsey’s consultants
globally. For the past few years, he has been leading a
variety of internal research initiatives. A frequent author
and public speaker, he has spoken in a variety of venues
and authored editorials in the Wall Street Journal and
the Financial Times as well as numerous articles in the
McKinsey Quarterly and related publications on a variety of
telecommunications, broadband, interactions, and strategy
topics. He has appeared in television broadcasts on the
subject of broadband, telecommunication competition,
and deregulation, and has co-authored part of seven
books related to regulatory strategy, ICTs, and networked
readiness. He has also delivered presentations for the
World Economic Forum at Davos on digital readiness and
telecommunication sector reform, as well as the future of
telecommunication regulation. Prior to joining McKinsey, Mr
Beardsley was employed as Editor and Marketing Manager
at the MIT Sloan Management Review. Additionally, he
worked in the strategic sales and product marketing
functions for Advanced Micro Devices and Analog Devices
of the semiconductor industry. Mr Beardsley is Chairman
of the Board of Directors of the American Chamber of
Commerce in Belgium and on the Board of Directors of
St John’s International School in Waterloo, Belgium. He
was a Henry S. Dupont III Scholar (highest honors) for
outstanding academic performance at the MIT Sloan
School of Management, where he graduated with an MBA
in Corporate Strategy and Marketing. He holds a Bachelor
of Science in Electrical Engineering magna cum laude from
Tufts University, where he achieved highest honors.

Phillippa Biggs
Phillippa Biggs is an Economist and qualified accountant.
Previously, Ms Biggs worked for UNCTAD and UNIDO, and
as a temporary staff member for six months at the World
Economic Forum. She is Coordinator of the ITU/UNESCO
Broadband Commission for Digital Development, where
she researches developments in broadband, VoIP, and
3G markets. She is lead author and editor of a number of
reports—including The State of Broadband 2012, ITU’s
Confronting the Crisis reports (www.itu.int/crisis2009), and
the Status of VoIP report—and is a contributing author to
ITU’s World Telecommunication Development Report 2010,
ITU’s Trends in Telecommunication Reform 2009, and
ITU/UNCTAD’s World Information Society Reports (www.
itu.int/wisr). Ms Biggs has a degree in Natural Sciences
from Cambridge University and a Master in Economics for
Development from Oxford University (both in the United
Kingdom), where she won the University Prize for the
Best Overall Performance in her degree. She also holds
Diplomas in Economics and Statistics from the UK Open
University.
Beñat Bilbao-Osorio
Beñat Bilbao-Osorio is an Associate Director and
Senior Economist at the Global Competitiveness and
Benchmarking Network at the World Economic Forum.
In this capacity, he carries out research on national
competitiveness issues with a special focus on Latin
America and Iberia. In addition, he analyzes the role of
innovation and information and communication technologies
in fostering competitiveness and is Co-Editor of The Global
Information Technology Report. Prior to joining the Forum,
Dr Bilbao-Osorio worked at the Directorate-General for
Research and Innovation at the European Commission,
where he was responsible for the economic analysis of
European Innovation Policy. Prior to that, he worked at
the Directorates of Science, Technology and Industry, and
Education of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation
and Development (OECD) on innovation-related topics,
as well as at the International Trade Centre (UNCTAD/
WTO) on international trade competitiveness analysis. His
main research fields are innovation, skills, and economic
development, where he has published extensively. Dr
Bilbao-Osorio holds a degree in Economics from the
Universidad Comercial de Deusto (Spain), a Master in
European Studies from the Université Catholique de
Louvain (Belgium), and a PhD in Economic Geography from
the London School of Economic and Political Science (UK).

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 367

About the Authors

Genna R. Cohen
Genna R. Cohen is a doctoral student in Health Services
Organization and Policy at the University of Michigan’s
School of Public Health. Ms Cohen’s research focuses
on how physicians use health information technology and
how physician practices respond to policy changes. Prior
to attending the University of Michigan, Ms Cohen worked
at the Center for Studying Health System Change in
Washington, DC.
Soumitra Dutta
Soumitra Dutta is the Anne and Elmer Lindseth Dean and
Professor of Management at the Samuel Curtis Johnson
Graduate School of Management at Cornell University,
New York. Prior to July 2012, he was the Roland Berger
Chaired Professor of Business and Technology at INSEAD
and the Founding Director of eLab, a center of excellence
in the digital economy. Professor Dutta obtained his PhD in
Computer Science and his MSc in Business Administration
from the University of California at Berkeley. His current
research is on technology strategy and innovation policies
at both corporate and national levels. He has won several
awards for research and pedagogy and is actively involved
in strategy and policy consulting. His research has been
showcased in the global media and he has received several
awards, including the Light of India Award ’12 (from the
Times of India media group) and the Global Innovation
Award ’13 (from INNOVEX in Israel).
Bahjat El-Darwiche
Bahjat El-Darwiche is a Partner with Booz & Company
based in Beirut. He specializes in communications, media,
and technology and has led engagements in the areas
of telecommunication-sector strategy development,
policymaking and regulatory management, digitization,
business development and strategic investments, and
corporate management, as well as governance, operating
models, and restructuring.

Luis Enriquez
Luis Enriquez is a Director in McKinsey & Company’s
Brussels Office, where he has worked primarily in the
infrastructure and regulated industries, focusing on
regulation, operations and pricing in telecommunications
(fixed and mobile businesses), and energy. He coleads McKinsey’s global efforts in regulation, regulatory
economics, and stakeholder management and has
worked extensively in this area both at McKinsey and
prior to joining the firm. In addition, Mr Enriquez has led
the firm’s functional knowledge initiatives in emerging
regulatory areas, including regulatory management best
practices, organizational models, and key tools and
capabilities to support regulatory strategy. He co-leads
the global infrastructure initiative in telecommunications
and McKinsey’s regulatory strategy function. He has
worked extensively on regulatory and stakeholder
management topics in regulated and unregulated industries
in approximately 60 countries, including security of
supply, understanding the challenges of the US energy
liberalization model, the unbundling of network functions,
the emergence of Voice over IP and Internet access
models, trends in the regulation of fixed telephony, and
emerging issues surrounding the regulation of mobile
networks and regulatory strategy in an unregulated context.
He is currently leading a cross-industry internal task force
to gather global lessons in regulatory management and
strategy across industries. He has collaborated with ITU,
the World Economic Forum (where he has co-authored a
contribution to the Global Information Technology Report
since the report’s inception), government panels, and
regulatory agencies on multiple issues, and has published
perspectives on major topics such as regulatory strategy,
market dominance remedies, regulation of infrastructure
in major newspapers and other publications. Prior to
joining McKinsey, Mr Enriquez worked extensively in
liberalization, company restructuring, and regulation issues
in Europe, the United States, and Latin America. He
assisted the Ministry of Finance of the Czech Republic in
developing price regulations to support the privatization of
Czech Telecom (then SPT Telecom) in 1994, and taught
courses and seminars on issues surrounding liberalization,
competition, and interconnection. He worked in the Office
of Plans and Policy with the Chief Economist of the Federal
Communications Commission during the implementation
of the 1996 Telecommunications Act, and has worked
with US telecommunications and energy firms on multiple
regulatory topics ranging from incremental cost pricing, rate
base regulation, and wholesale pricing models to price cap
regulation, interconnection, unbundling and collocation,
and pricing of broadband services. Mr Enriquez has an
AB in Economics from Harvard University and did his
doctoral work in Economics at the University of California at
Berkeley, where he focused on the economic dynamics of
interconnection among telecommunications networks.
Roman Friedrich
Roman Friedrich is a Partner with Booz & Company
based in Düsseldorf and Stockholm. He leads the firm’s
communications, media, and technology practice in
Europe, and specializes in the strategic transformation
of fixed-line and mobile communications, technologybased transformation, and sales and marketing in the
communications, media, and technology industries.

368 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

About the Authors

John Garrity
John Garrity joined Cisco in 2006 and is currently
Research Manager for Global Technology Policy. His role
involves researching and crafting unique perspectives on
technology issues as well as engaging with public and
private counterparts in dialogue on the potential of IT and
network connectivity for economic growth, competitiveness,
and social inclusion. His previous role at Cisco involved
informing Cisco’s business in emerging markets as part of
the Emerging Markets Strategy and Economics unit. Prior
to working at Cisco, Mr Garrity worked at the World Bank
in their Corporate Strategy Group, and has held positions
in the US Federal Trade Commission as well as in state
government. He holds a Master in Applied Economics from
Ohio State University.
Thierry Geiger
Thierry Geiger is an Economist and Associate Director with
the Global Competitiveness and Benchmarking Network at
the World Economic Forum. He leads the competitiveness
research on Asia, supervises the development and
computation of a wide range of composite indicators,
and is responsible for the Network’s technical assistance
and capacity-building activities. His areas of expertise
are private-sector development, international trade, and
applied economics. Mr Geiger is a co-author of the Forum’s
flagship publications The Global Competitiveness Report,
The Global Information Technology Report, and The Global
Enabling Trade Report. He is the lead author of several
regional and country studies. A Swiss national, Mr Geiger
holds a BA in Economics from the University of Geneva, an
MA in Economics from the University of British Columbia,
and was a Fellow of the Forum’s Global Leadership
Programme. Prior to joining the Forum, he worked for the
World Trade Organization and Caterpillar Inc. He is CoFounder of Procab Studio, a Geneva-based IT company.
Ferry C. Grijpink
Ferry C. Grijpink is a Principal in McKinsey Amsterdam’s
Business and Technology Office. He focuses on advising
telecommunication clients on strategy and technology
topics. Within McKinsey, he is co-leading Mckinsey’s
research in deploying and commercializing next-generation
infrastructures such as fiber and mobile broadband. He has
a strong record of ensuring analytical findings are delivering
real change to clients. Mr Grijpink has written numerous
articles for McKinsey’s telecommunication magazine Recall
on 4G, mobile OTT, and frequency auctions. He is a core
faculty member of McKinsey’s leadership program for
engagement management. Before joining McKinsey, Mr
Grijpink worked for Gemini Consulting in the high tech
consulting unit, where he served consumer electronics and
semiconductor companies. He has also been active as
an entrepreneur in the mobile Internet space. Mr Grijpink
holds an MSc in Electrical Engineering with a major in
Telecommunications from the Delft University of Technology.

Mikael Hagström
Mikael Hagström is the Executive Vice President at SAS
and leads SAS’ Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Asia
Pacific regions, which represent 54 percent of its 2011
revenue, or 1.47 billion US dollars. Overseeing 4,500
professionals in 48 countries, Mr Hagström is responsible
for delivering revenue growth and profit, and for harnessing
the potential in the current market. He is Chair of the
American Chamber of Commerce to the European Union
Executive Council and is active in the US Council for
International Business and the Atlantic Council.
Ashish K. Jha
Ashish K. Jha, MD, MPH, is Associate Professor of Health
Policy at the Harvard School of Public Health and Associate
Professor of Medicine at Harvard Medical School. He is
also a practicing internal medicine physician at Brigham
and Women’s Hospital and VA Boston Healthcare System.
Dr Jha received his MD from Harvard Medical School and
trained in Internal Medicine at the University of California,
San Francisco, where he also served as Chief Medical
Resident. He received his MPH from the Harvard School
of Public Health. Dr Jha has led several national surveys
on health IT, and much of his current work focuses on
how health IT can be used to drive improvements in the
healthcare system. Over the past three years, he has
served as Special Advisor for Quality and Safety to the
Department of Veterans Affairs.
Alex Koster
Alex Koster is a Principal with Booz & Company based
in Zurich. He focuses on strategy, revenue growth, and
business model transformation opportunities across
communications, technology, and Internet companies.
David Kovo
David Kovo is an Executive on Deloitte’s Economic
Consulting team. He joined the team after completing an
MSc in Economics at the London School of Economics,
where he specialized in Industrial Organization and Applied
Micro-Econometrics. Prior to joining Deloitte, he worked as
an Economic Intern at the UK Office of Fair Trading.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 369

About the Authors

Bruno Lanvin
Bruno Lanvin is the Executive Director of INSEAD IECI
and a former Senior Executive at the World Bank and the
United Nations. His work focuses on competitiveness,
innovation, skills, government reform, and social media.
From 2007 to 2013, he was the Executive Director of
eLab at INSEAD. Dr Lanvin has been a Commissioner
on the Broadband Commission since its creation in 2010
(www.broadbandcommission.org), and, in 2011, he was
appointed to the Board of Directors of IDA Infocomm in
Singapore (www.ida.gov.sg). He currently serves as a
member of the Media Convergence Panel of Singapore’s
Media Development Authority (MDA) (www.mda.gov.sg).
Since 2009, he has been Chair and then a member of
the Global Advisory Council on the Future of Government
(World Economic Forum), focusing on the influence of
social media on governance and democracy (www.
weforum.org/pdf/GAC09/council/future_of_government/
proposal.htm). From 2000 to 2007, Dr Lanvin held various
senior positions at the World Bank, including Manager of
the Information for Development Program (www.infodev.
org), Focal Point for the World Summit on Information
Society (WSIS), Regional Coordinator for Europe for ICT
and e-strategies, and President of the Bank’s e-Thematic
Group. From 2000 to 2001, Dr Lanvin also served as
Executive Secretary of the G-8 Digital Opportunity Task
(DOT) Force. From 1979 to 2000, he held various highlevel positions in the United Nations, including Chief of
Cabinet of the Director General of the United Nations in
New York, Head of Strategic Planning and later Chief of
the SME Trade Competitiveness Unit of UNCTAD/SITE in
Geneva, and Deputy Executive Secretary of UNISTE. Dr
Lanvin has degrees in Mathematics and Physics (a License
from the University of Valenciennes, France), Business (an
MBA from HEC, France) and Economics (a PhD from the
University of Paris I – Pantheon-Sorbonne, France). He
speaks French, English, and Spanish, and has a working
knowledge of Portuguese, Italian, and Russian, as well
as some knowledge of Mandarin. A frequent speaker at
high-level international conferences, he is the author of a
wide range of books, articles, and studies on information
societies, international trade, development, and innovation
in the public sector.
Youlia Lozanova
Youlia Lozanova currently works as a Telecommunication/
ICT Regulatory Analyst with the Development sector of
International Telecommunication Union (ITU), where she has
worked since 2005. Her main areas of work are regulatory
reform and policy development in the ICT sector. Before
joining ITU, she spent three years as a Researcher in the
Sofia University and two years with the public media in
Bulgaria. Over the last seven years, she has specialized in
the areas of ICT development, policy, and regulation and
has co-authored material for several reports, including the
World Information Society Report 2006 and 2007, Trends
in Telecommunication Reform 2008, 2009, 2010–11 and
2012, and the ITU Broadband Atlas. Ms Lozanova holds
a Political Science Honours Degree from Sofia University
(Bulgaria) and a Master in Public Policy Management and
a Master in Development Studies from the University of
Geneva (Switzerland).

370 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Ian Manocha
Ian Manocha is Vice President, Government, Europe, the
Middle East, Africa, and Asia Pacific at SAS and leads
the government business and the company’s innovation
portfolio across Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Asia
Pacific. He is Chairman of Memex Technology, a subsidiary
focused on predictive risk and intelligence management
solutions for national security and public safety. He is
also responsible for SAS’ advanced analytics innovation
center in Europe. He is passionate about the idea that
leaders should exploit the transformative power of big data
analytics to thrive in the modern hyperconnected world.
Julia Adler-Milstein
Julia Adler-Milstein, PhD, is an Assistant Professor at
the School of Information at the University of Michigan
with a joint appointment to the School of Public Health
(Health Management and Policy). Her research focuses on
policy and management issues related to the use of IT in
healthcare delivery. Her expertise is in health information
exchange and the productivity and efficiency of electronic
health records. Dr Adler-Milstein graduated with a Doctorate
in Health Policy from Harvard University.
Diego Molano Vega
The Minister of Information and Communication
Technologies of Colombia, Mr Diego Molano Vega is an
electrical engineer, born in a small city in the mountains
called Tunja, Boyacá. He has a Master in Economics from
the Universidad Javeriana in Bogotá, Colombia, and an
MBA from the Institute for Management Development
(IMD) in Lausanne, Switzerland. He has over 20 years of
experience in the ICT industry, in both the public and private
arenas. In 1996, he assumed his first public servant role:
member of the Telecommunications Regulatory Commission
of Colombia, an entity over which he presided for two
years, where he was responsible for the liberalization of
the telecommunication sector in the country, encouraging
private foreign investment and rendering the industry much
more competitive. He has also held executive positions
in multinational companies such as Ascom (Switzerland),
Bellsouth (the United States), and Telefónica (Spain), where
he acted as Deputy General Director and looked after
Corporate Affairs for 18 countries in Latin America. In 2010,
he was appointed Minister of ICT of Colombia by President
Juan Manuel Santos and created the Plan Vive Digital—the
national ICT plan that aims to reduce poverty, create jobs,
and increase competitiveness through the widespread use
of the Internet. In 2012, he was named the best Minister of
Telecommunications in the world, obtaining for Colombia
the GSMA Government Leadership Award for being the
country with the best public policies in technology around
the globe. Throughout his career, Mr Molano Vega directed
research and publications on the impact of technology
on public health, banking, the justice sector, education,
small- and medium-sized companies, productivity,
competitiveness, and innovation in Latin America. He has
served on the boards of important major international
business organizations such as the Iberoamerican
Association of Telecommunications Operators (Ahciet),
the Business Economic Forum of Mercosur (MEBF), the
European Business Forum, EUBrasil, and the Chamber of
Commerce of Colombia in Spain. He was also the founder
and president of the Telecommunications Regulators
Association of Latin America (Regulatel) and member of
the board of 4-72, the postal network in Colombia that
operates the National Postal Services SA.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

About the Authors

Stagg Newman
Stagg Newman provides technology, regulatory, and
strategic advice and analysis to McKinsey clients globally
as a McKinsey Advisor, a position he has held since 2005
except for a nine-month assignment with the US Federal
Communications Commission (FCC). Dr Newman recently
served as Chief Technologist on the US FCC National
Broadband Team that developed Connecting America:
The National Broadband Plan, a report to Congress and
the President on the US broadband state of deployment
and future plans. He also served as an adviser to the
Obama Transition Team on telecommunications policy. He
continues to do pro bono work for US government entities
and was also the lead contributor to the infrastructure and
deployment sections of the UN Broadband Commission
report Broadband: A Platform for Progress. From 2000 to
2005, Dr Newman served McKinsey & Company as Senior
Telecom Expert, working with hundreds of client teams
worldwide. He provided technical leadership for the firm’s
knowledge development efforts, particularly in broadband
access, high-speed wireless, and the intersection of
technology and regulation. He represented McKinsey on the
Technology Advisory Council of the US FCC, where he led
the Broadband Working Group that assessed broadband
access platforms and presented The State of Fixed and
Mobile Broadband Wireless Technology: The Next Half
Decade, which analyzed 3G, WiFi Mesh, and WiMax
technologies. In 2007, he was CTO of Frontline Wireless, a
startup designed to win US 700 MHz spectrum and build
out a 4G network to serve public safety and commercial
interests. Dr Newman was Chief Technologist at the FCC
in 1998 and 1999, where he advised the Commissioners
and senior staffers on strategic technology issues. He
championed the “unregulation” of the Internet, an Internetfriendly spectrum policy, and policies that encouraged
technology innovation and investment. Dr Newman started
his telecommunications career with Bell Labs in 1976 and
worked for various descendants of AT&T in voice, data,
and video communications. From 1994 to 1997 he was
Vice President, Network Technology and Architecture,
Applied Research at Bellcore, where he led the wireless,
optical networking, and network access technology and
architecture research. Prior to that, he led the network
technology organization responsible for technical
specifications, certification, and conformance testing. Dr
Newman received his BS from Davidson College and his
MS and PhD from Cornell in Math.

Didier Nkurikiyimfura
Didier Nkurikiyimfura joined the ICT sector 10 years ago
after receiving a technical and engineering education.
At his current capacity of Director General in charge
of ICT in the Ministry of Youth and ICT, he is in charge
of the country’s ICT Policy and Strategy development
and coordination. Prior to his current functions, Mr
Nkurikiyimfura worked at the Rwanda Development Board
(RDB) where he served in the capacity of Head of the IT
Security Division, which plans, implements, and coordinates
Rwanda’s ICT security. Didier also worked at the Rwanda
Information Technology Authority, where he served as
Director of the National Computing Center (NCC) and then
Director of the National Data Center (NDC). A national of
Rwanda, Mr Nkurikiyimfura holds a Bachelor of Science in
Computer Science and a Master of Science in Software
Engineering.
Alex Ntale
Alex Ntale is Founding President of Rwanda’s Young ICT
Entrepreneurs’ Association. He is currently Director of
the ICT Chamber Secretariat in Rwanda’s Private Sector
Federation and a Visiting Lecturer at Université Libre de
Kigali (ULK). He holds a Master of Science in Investment
and Qualitative Finance from the University of Westminster
in England, a Postgraduate Diploma in Strategic Business
Information Technology from the National Computing
Centre (NCC Education) in England, as well as a Bachelor
of Science in Computer Science from Makerere University
in Uganda. His work experience ranges from working as a
computer engineer to a financial services broker in the City
of London.
Robert Pepper
Robert Pepper is Vice President, Global Technology Policy,
at Cisco. He leads a team working with governments
across the world in areas such as broadband, IP-enabled
services, wireless and spectrum policy, security, privacy,
Internet governance, and ICT development. He joined Cisco
in July 2005 from the FCC, where he served as Chief of the
Office of Plans and Policy and Chief of Policy Development
beginning in 1989, leading teams developing policies
promoting the development of the Internet, implementing
telecommunications legislation, planning for the transition
to digital television, and designing and implementing the
first US spectrum auctions. Before joining the FCC, he
was Director of the Annenberg Washington Program in
Communications Policy. His government service also
included Acting Associate Administrator at the National
Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
and initiating a program on Computers, Communications
and Information Policy at the National Science Foundation.
His academic appointments include faculty positions at
the Universities of Iowa, Indiana, and Pennsylvania, and
he has been a Research Affiliate at Harvard University.
He serves on the board of the US Telecommunications
Training Institute (USTTI) and advisory boards for
Columbia University and Michigan State University, and
is a Communications Program Fellow at the Aspen
Institute. He is a member of the US Department of
Commerce’s Spectrum Management Advisory Committee,
the UK’s Ofcom Spectrum Advisory Board, and the US
Department of State’s Advisory Committee on International
Communications and Information Policy. Dr Pepper received
his BA and PhD from the University of Wisconsin-Madison.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 371

About the Authors

Anna Magdalena Polomska
Anna Magdalena Polomska has worked in the private
sector consulting on telecommunication projects. She is
Project Officer in the Broadband Commission for Digital
Development Secretariat, where she conducts research on
the latest trends of ICTs, broadband policies, and regulation
and has contributed to several studies and reports,
including Broadband: A Platform for Progress 2011 and
The State of Broadband 2012. Ms. Polomska graduated
in 2007 from the Warsaw School of Economics in Poland,
with a Master in Finance, where she majored in Banking.
She had a one-year scholarship in International Business
at l’ESCE in Paris. She is now studying for a Master in Law
from UMCS University in Poland.
Miguel A. Porrúa
Miguel A. Porrúa is the e-Government Senior Specialist
at the Department for Effective Public Management of
the Secretariat for Political Affairs of the Organization of
American States (OAS). Previously Mr Porrúa was the
Director of Government Relations for Latin America at the
electronic government company govWorks, based in New
York, where he oversaw various electronic government
projects in the region. Prior to his arrival in the United
States, he lived in Montevideo (Uruguay) where he
managed projects related to business development and
the modernization of the public sector for the Spanish
government (Spanish Agency for International Cooperation
and Development, AECID) and the United Nations (UNDP).
Since 1996, Mr Porrúa has lived in the United States,
where he held different management positions until joining
the OAS in 2002. He obtained his Bachelor in Business
and Economics at the University of Oviedo (Spain) and his
MBA from Thunderbird Business School (Arizona, USA). He
has written several articles and documents on electronic
government and recently co-edited the book Latin America
Puntogob.
Elettra Ronchi
Elettra Ronchi, PhD, MPA, is Senior Policy Analyst in the
Information, Computer, Communications Policy Division
of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and
Development (OECD) in Paris, where she coordinates work
on information and communication technologies (ICTs) for
health and wellness. From 2006 to 2009, she led a project
geared toward understanding the drivers and barriers to the
adoption of electronic health records in the health sector
across OECD countries. Dr Ronchi has more than 15 years
of experience as a policy analyst in technology, innovation,
and health systems, evaluating the instruments available to
governments to improve public benefits from investments
in science and technology. She received her PhD from the
Rockefeller University/Cornell Medical School in New York
and her MPA from the University of York (UK). She started
her policy career in 1993 as a Consultant for the United
Nations Development Programme, and was in charge
of managing a program on biotechnologies and health
innovation at the OECD from 1995 to 2004.

372 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Karim Sabbagh
Karim Sabbagh is a Senior Partner and the Middle
East Practice Leader with Booz & Company in Dubai
and Riyadh. He specializes in sector-level development
strategies, institutional and regulatory reforms, large-scale
privatization programs, and strategy-based transformations
focused on strategic planning, partnerships and alliances,
marketing, and business process redesign.
Sergio Sandoval
Sergio Sandoval is an Associate Principal in McKinsey &
Company’s Brussels Office. Mr Sandoval joined the firm in
late 2001 and has been part of McKinsey’s global efforts
in regulation, regulatory economics, and stakeholder
management for the past five years. He is also part
of the core leadership of McKinsey’s Next Generation
Telecommunication Infrastructure Initiative. He has been a
lead author in the annual Global Information Technology
Report of the World Economic Forum since 2005, writing
on topics of regulation, next-generation networks, and the
economic impact of high-speed broadband networks. He
is also the key liaison person between McKinsey and the
European Union—his Brussels-based location enables
him to maintain high-level contacts and get information
first hand from key European industry stakeholders in
Brussels such as the European Telecommunication
Network Operators Association (ETNO), the European
Competitors Association (ECTA), the Center for European
Political Studies (CEPS), and Euroactiv. Prior to joining
McKinsey, Mr Sandoval worked with Colombia’s Presidency
of the Republic as Economic Advisor to the President. He
obtained a BS and an MA in Economics from Los Andes
University in Colombia, and an MBA with high honours from
Solvay Business School.
Milind Singh
Milind Singh is a Principal with Booz & Company based
in Dubai. He works with policymakers, regulators, and
operators across emerging markets, helping them navigate
change and maximize their returns from digitization.
Malin Strandell-Jansson
Malin Strandell-Jansson is a Knowledge Specialist in
McKinsey & Company’s Stockholm Office specializing in
telecommunication regulation. Mrs Strandell-Jansson is
part of the Global TMT research network, but also works
closely with McKinsey’s strategy practice regulatory
service line. Between 2006 and 2010, she was the team
leader for McKinsey’s global group of analysts focusing
on mobile telecommunication research. She has also
served as the coordinator for McKinsey’s marketing and
sales special interest group. Prior to joining McKinsey &
Company, Mrs Strandell-Jansson worked for Ericsson’s
EMEA management team and the European Commission,
at the Information Society DG, XIII, where she was involved
in the development of the copyright directive. Before that
she worked on contract law issues for one of the largest
IT companies in Finland. She wrote her Master’s thesis on
“The International Copyright Protection of Software,” and
has published several articles on various topics related
to international regulation and telecommunications. Mrs
Strandell-Jansson holds a Master of Law in Law and
Information Technology from Stockholm University in
Sweden and a Political Science Degree with a major in
International Law from Åbo Akademi in Finland.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

About the Authors

Davide Strusani
Davide Strusani is an Assistant Director in Deloitte’s
Economic Consulting team based in London. He has
expertise in ICT economics, in economic impact studies of
telecommunications, and in telecommunication regulatory
issues, having worked on these issues for operators and
regulators worldwide for over eight years. Prior to working
for Deloitte, he was a Regulatory Manager at T-Mobile UK.
Mr Strusani holds an MSc in Economics from University
College London.
Nancy Sundberg
Nancy Sundberg is a Senior Programme Officer at
the International Telecommunication Union (ITU). She
has been involved in telecommunications/ICT reform
for more than 15 years. At ITU, she coordinates and
contributes to regulatory publications such as Trends in
Telecommunications Reform. She is a co-organizer of the
BDT’s annual Global Symposium for Regulators (GSR)
and is also actively involved in the organization of regional
events and the Training Programme for Regulators and
Policy-Makers. She is coordinating further developments
of the ITU infoDev online ICT regulation toolkit. She is also
managing methods of information gathering and sharing for
the annual regulatory survey, the regulatory database on the
ITU’s ICT Eye portal, and the Broadband Universe portal.
She regularly delivers reports, articles, and presentations on
sector reform at regulatory meetings around the world.
Wim Torfs
Wim Torfs is a Principal with McKinsey & Company. He
joined the Brussels Office in mid-2003 and transferred to
the Dubai Office at the beginning of 2007. His main focus is
on pricing and regulation. Besides his career with McKinsey
& Company, Mr Torfs has been a Consultant with Bureau
van Dijk Management Consultants in Brussels, where he
was an expert in market liberalization issues. Mr Torfs holds
a degree in Commercial Engineering from the University of
Antwerp (Belgium) and a Master of Business Administration
from the Vlerick Leuven Ghent Management School
(Belgium).
David Vincent
David Vincent is an Assistant Director in the Economics
Consulting team of Deloitte, and has acted as expert
econometrician for this chapter. He has nine years of
consulting experience focusing on econometric modeling.
Prior to joining Deloitte, Mr Vincent worked as Lead
Econometrician for Hewlett Packard.
Chris Williams
Chris Williams is the Partner in Deloitte’s Economic
Consulting team. He leads Deloitte’s global TMT regulation
and competition offering, and is a member of the Deloitte
UK Telecommunications Media and Technology executive
group. Mr Williams has worldwide experience in regulatory
and market issues for mobile operators. He has advised
many of the world’s leading mobile operators as well as the
regulatory authorities in more than 30 countries.

Sean Williams
Mr Williams is Group Director of Strategy, Policy & Portfolio
for BT Group, which he joined in September 2008. Before
joining BT, he was Executive Director on the Board of
the Office of Fair Trading from 2007 to 2008, responsible
for competition law and consumer law enforcement
in the United Kingdom, including merger control and
anti-cartel investigations. Previously he was Executive
Director on the Board of Ofcom from 2003 to 2007,
responsible for economic regulation and competition policy
in telecommunications and broadcasting in the United
Kingdom. He led Ofcom’s work on broadband and LLU,
the Telecoms Strategic Review, and the new regulatory
settlement under BT’s Undertakings. Before working for
Ofcom, Mr Williams was a Partner of LEK Consulting LLP
from 1997 to 2003, an international strategy consulting firm
originating in the United Kingdom. From 1995 to 1997, he
was a Policy Advisor in the Prime Minister’s Policy Unit at
10 Downing Street. From 1990 to 2008 he was a Board
Director of Williams Lea Group, a private business services
company employing about 10,000 people worldwide.
He has degrees in Economics from Oxford and Harvard
Universities.
Laura Pannella Winn
Laura Pannella Winn, MA, conducts applied research
in health policy at the Harvard School of Public Health,
Department of Health Policy and Management. She
currently serves as Research Project Manager with a team
at the department looking to improve the quality and reduce
costs of the US healthcare system through the evaluation of
policies and tools including health information technology,
government-incentivized quality-improvement programs,
and care delivery reform. She received a Master of Arts in
the Social Sciences at the University of Chicago in 2009.
Atsushi Yamanaka
Atsushi Yamanaka is the National ICT Strategy & Policy
Implementation Advisor at the Rwanda Development Board
ICT department (RDB-ICT) and Senior Advisor at the Private
Sector Federation ICT Chamber. He has been supporting
Rwanda’s strategic vision of becoming an information-rich,
knowledge-based economy to achieve its Vision 2020
goals for the past three years. In 2010–11, he facilitated the
formulation of the 3rd National ICT Strategy & Policy (NICI:
2011–2015) and the strategy’s implementation in 2011–
12. Mr Yamanaka has more than 18 years of experience
pursuing ICT for development initiatives throughout the
globe. He has worked in different organizations that include
the United Nations and other international organizations,
the private sector, and civil society organizations. He has
improved business processes and developmental results
for public- and private-sector clients in more than 100
countries in 5 regions through his services with donor
organizations. Mr Yamanaka earned his MA in International
Political Economy with a concentration in the International
Economic Policy (specializing in Telecommunications for
Development and Science & Technology Policy) at the
American University.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 373

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Partner Institutes

Partner Institutes

The World Economic Forum’s Global Benchmarking
Network is pleased to acknowledge and thank the following organizations as its valued Partner Institutes,
without which the realization of The Global Information
Technology Report 2013 would not have been feasible:
Albania
Institute for Contemporary Studies (ISB)
Artan Hoxha, President
Elira Jorgoni, Senior Expert
Endrit Kapaj, Expert

Belgium
Vlerick Business School
Priscilla Boiardi, Associate, Competence Centre
Entrepreneurship, Governance and Strategy
Wim Moesen, Professor
Leo Sleuwaegen, Professor, Competence Centre
Entrepreneurship, Governance and Strategy
Benin
CAPOD—Conception et Analyse de Politiques de
Développement
Epiphane Adjovi, Director
Maria-Odile Attanasso, Deputy Coordinator
Fructueux Deguenonvo, Researcher

Algeria
Centre de Recherche en Economie Appliquée pour
le Développement (CREAD)
Youcef Benabdallah, Assistant Professor
Yassine Ferfera, Director

Bosnia and Herzegovina
MIT Center, School of Economics and Business in Sarajevo,
University of Sarajevo
Zlatko Lagumdzija, Professor
Zeljko Sain, Executive Director
Jasmina Selimovic, Assistant Director

Argentina
IAE—Universidad Austral
Eduardo Luis Fracchia, Professor
Santiago Novoa, Project Manager
Armenia
Economy and Values Research Center
Manuk Hergnyan, Chairman
Sevak Hovhannisyan, Board Member and Senior Associate
Gohar Malumyan, Research Associate
Australia
Australian Industry Group
Colleen Dowling, Senior Research Coordinator
Innes Willox, Chief Executive
Austria
Austrian Institute of Economic Research (WIFO)
Karl Aiginger, Director
Gerhard Schwarz, Coordinator, Survey Department

Botswana
Botswana National Productivity Centre
Letsogile Batsetswe, Research Consultant and Statistician
Baeti Molake, Executive Director
Phumzile Thobokwe, Manager, Information and Research
Services Department
Brazil
Fundação Dom Cabral, Bradesco Innovation Center
Carlos Arruda, International Relations Director, Innovation
and Competitiveness Professor
Daniel Berger, Bachelor Student in Economics
Fabiana Madsen, Economist and Associate Researcher
Movimento Brasil Competitivo (MBC)
Carolina Aichinger, Project Coordinator
Erik Camarano, Chief Executive Officer

Azerbaijan
Azerbaijan Marketing Society
Fuad Aliyev, Deputy Chairman
Ashraf Hajiyev, Consultant

Brunei Darussalam
Ministry of Industry and Primary Resources
Pehin Dato Yahya Bakar, Minister
Normah Suria Hayati Jamil Al-Sufri, Permanent Secretary

Bahrain
Bahrain Economic Development Board
Kamal Bin Ahmed, Minister of Transportation and Acting Chief
Executive of the Economic Development Board
Nada Azmi, Manager, Economic Planning and Development
Maryam Matter, Coordinator, Economic Planning and
Development

Bulgaria
Center for Economic Development
Adriana Daganova, Expert, International Programmes and
Projects
Anelia Damianova, Senior Expert

Bangladesh
Centre for Policy Dialogue (CPD)
Khondaker Golam Moazzem, Senior Research Fellow
Kishore Kumer Basak, Research Associate
Mustafizur Rahman, Executive Director
Barbados
Sir Arthur Lewis Institute of Social and Economic Studies,
University of West Indies (UWI)
Judy Whitehead, Director

Burkina Faso
lnstitut Supérieure des Sciences de la Population (ISSP),
University of Ouagadougou
Baya Banza, Director
Burundi
University Research Centre for Economic and Social
Development (CURDES), National University of Burundi
Banderembako Deo, Director
Gilbert Niyongabo, Dean, Faculty of Economics &
Management

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 375

Partner Institutes

Cambodia
Economic Institute of Cambodia
Sok Hach, President
Sokheng Sam, Researcher

Denmark
Danish Technological Institute, Center for Policy and Business
Development
Hanne Shapiro, Center Manager

Cameroon
Comité de Compétitivité (Competitiveness Committee)
Lucien Sanzouango, Permanent Secretary

Ecuador
ESPAE Graduate School of Management, Escuela Superior
Politécnica del Litoral (ESPOL)
Elizabeth Arteaga, Project Assistant
Virginia Lasio, Director
Sara Wong, Professor

Canada
The Conference Board of Canada
Michael R. Bloom, Vice-President, Organizational
Effectiveness & Learning
Douglas Watt, Associate Director

Egypt
The Egyptian Center for Economic Studies (ECES)
Iman Al-Ayouty, Senior Economist
Omneia Helmy, Acting Executive Director and Director
of Research

Cape Verde
INOVE RESEARCH—Investigação e Desenvolvimento, Lda
Júlio Delgado, Partner and Senior Researcher
José Mendes, Chief Executive Officer
Sara França Silva, Project Manager
Chad
Groupe de Recherches Alternatives et de Monitoring du Projet
Pétrole-Tchad-Cameroun (GRAMP-TC)
Antoine Doudjidingao, Researcher
Gilbert Maoundonodji, Director
Celine Nénodji Mbaipeur, Programme Officer
Chile
Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez
Fernando Larrain Aninat, Director MBA
Leonidas Montes, Dean, School of Government

Ethiopia
African Institute of Management, Development and
Governance
Zebenay Kifle, General Manager
Tegenge Teka, Senior Expert

France
HEC School of Management, Paris
Bertrand Moingeon, Professor and Deputy Dean
Bernard Ramanantsoa, Professor and Dean

University of Finance and Economics
Bojuan Zhao, Professor
Fan Yang, Professor Jian Wang, Associate Professor
Hongye Xiao, Professor
Lu Dong, Professor

Gabon
Confédération Patronale Gabonaise
Regis Loussou Kiki, General Secretary
Gina Eyama Ondo, Assistant General Secretary
Henri Claude Oyima, President

Colombia
National Planning Department
Sara Patricia Rivera, Advisor
John Rodríguez, Coordinator, Competitiveness Observatory
Javier Villarreal, Enterprise Development Director

Gambia, The
Gambia Economic and Social Development Research Institute
(GESDRI)
Makaireh A. Njie, Director

Colombian Private Council on Competitiveness
Rosario Córdoba, President
Marco Llinás, Vicepresident

Georgia
Business Initiative for Reforms in Georgia
Tamara Janashia, Executive Director
Giga Makharadze, Founding Member of the Board of Directors
Mamuka Tsereteli, Founding Member of the Board of Directors

Côte d’Ivoire
Chambre de Commerce et d’Industrie de Côte d’Ivoire
Jean-Louis Billon, President
Mamadou Sarr, Director General

Germany
WHU—Otto Beisheim School of Management
Ralf Fendel, Professor of Monetary Economics
Michael Frenkel, Professor, Chair of Macroeconomics and
International Economics

Croatia
National Competitiveness Council
Jadranka Gable, Advisor
Kresimir Jurlin, Research Fellow
Cyprus
The European University
Bambos Papageorgiou, Head of Socioeconomic and
Academic Research
cdbbank—The Cyprus Development Bank
Maria Markidou-Georgiadou, Manager, Business Development
and Special Projects

376 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Estonian Development Fund
Kitty Kubo, Head of Foresight
Ott Pärna, Chief Executive Officer

Finland
ETLA—The Research Institute of the Finnish Economy
Markku Kotilainen, Research Director
Petri Rouvinen, Research Director
Pekka Ylä-Anttila, Managing Director

China
Institute of Economic System and Management, National
Development and Reform Commission
Chen Wei, Research Fellow
Dong Ying, Professor
Zhou Haichun, Deputy Director and Professor
China Center for Economic Statistics Research, Tianjin

Czech Republic
CMC Graduate School of Business
Tomas Janca, Executive Director

Estonia
Estonian Institute of Economic Research
Evelin Ahermaa, Head of Economic Research Sector
Marje Josing, Director

Ghana
Association of Ghana Industries (AGI)
Patricia Addy, Projects Officer
Nana Owusu-Afari, President
Seth Twum-Akwaboah, Executive Director
Greece
SEV Hellenic Federation of Enterprises
Michael Mitsopoulos, Senior Advisor, Entrepreneurship
Thanasis Printsipas, Economist, Entrepreneurship

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Partner Institutes

Italy
SDA Bocconi School of Management
Secchi Carlo, Full Professor of Economic Policy, Bocconi
University
Paola Dubini, Associate Professor, Bocconi University
Francesco A. Saviozzi, SDA Professor, Strategic and
Entrepreneurial Management Department

Guatemala
FUNDESA
Felipe Bosch G., President of the Board of Directors
Pablo Schneider, Economic Director
Juan Carlos Zapata, General Manager
Guinea
Confédération Patronale des Entreprises de Guinée
Mohamed Bénogo Conde, Secretary-General

Jamaica
Mona School of Business (MSB), The University of the West
Indies
Patricia Douce, Project Administrator
Evan Duggan, Executive Director and Professor
William Lawrence, Director, Professional Services Unit

Guyana
Institute of Development Studies, University of Guyana
Karen Pratt, Research Associate
Clive Thomas, Director
Haiti
Group Croissance SA
Pierre Lenz Dominique, Coordinator, Survey Department
Kesner Pharel, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman
Hong Kong SAR
Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce
David O’Rear, Chief Economist

Keizai Doyukai (Japan Association of Corporate Executives)
Kiyohiko Ito, Managing Director, Keizai Doyukai

Federation of Hong Kong Industries
Alexandra Poon, Director

Jordan
Ministry of Planning & International Cooperation
Jordan National Competitiveness Team
Kawther Al-Zou’bi, Head of Competitiveness Division
Basma Arabiyat, Researcher
Mukhallad Omari, Director of Policies and Studies Department

The Chinese General Chamber of Commerce
Hungary
KOPINT-TÁRKI Economic Research Ltd.
Éva Palócz, Chief Executive Officer
Peter Vakhal, Project Manager
Iceland
Innovation Center Iceland
Ardis Armannsdottir, Marketing Manager
Karl Fridriksson, Managing Director of Human Resources
and Marketing
Thorsteinn I. Sigfusson, Director
India
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII)
Chandrajit Banerjee, Director General
Marut Sengupta, Deputy Director General
Gantakolla Srivastava, Head, Financial Services
Indonesia
Center for Industry, SME & Business Competition Studies,
University of Trisakti
Tulus Tambunan, Professor and Director
Iran, Islamic Republic of
The Center for Economic Studies and Surveys (CESS), Iran
Chamber of Commerce, Industries, Mines and Agriculture
Mohammad Janati Fard, Research Associate
Hamed Nikraftar, Project Manager
Farnaz Safdari, Research Associate
Ireland
Institute for Business Development and Competitiveness
School of Economics, University College Cork
Justin Doran, Principal Associate
Eleanor Doyle, Director
Catherine Kavanagh, Principal Associate
Forfás, Economic Analysis and Competitiveness Department
Adrian Devitt, Manager
Conor Hand, Economist
Israel
Manufacturers’ Association of Israel (MAI)
Dan Catarivas, Director
Amir Hayek, Managing Director
Zvi Oren, President

Japan
Keio University
Yoko Ishikura, Professor, Graduate School of Media Design
Heizo Takenaka, Director, Global Security Research Institute
Jiro Tamura, Professor of Law, Keio University

Kazakhstan
National Analytical Centre
Diana Tamabayeva, Project Manager
Vladislav Yezhov, Chairman
Kenya
Institute for Development Studies, University of Nairobi
Mohamud Jama, Director and Associate Research Professor
Paul Kamau, Senior Research Fellow
Dorothy McCormick, Research Professor
Korea, Republic of
College of Business School, Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology KAIST
Byungtae Lee, Acting Dean
Soung-Hie Kim, Associate Dean and Professor
Jinyung Cha, Assistant Director, Exchange Programme
Korea Development Institute
Joohee Cho, Senior Research Associate
Yongsoo Lee, Head, Policy Survey Unit
Kuwait
Kuwait National Competitiveness Committee
Adel Al-Husainan, Committee Member
Fahed Al-Rashed, Committee Chairman
Sayer Al-Sayer, Committee Member
Kyrgyz Republic
Economic Policy Institute “Bishkek Consensus”
Lola Abduhametova, Program Coordinator
Marat Tazabekov, Chairman
Latvia
Stockholm School of Economics in Riga
Karlis Kreslins, EMBA Programme Director
Anders Paalzow, Rector
Lebanon
Bader Young Entrepreneurs Program
Antoine Abou-Samra, Managing Director
Farah Shamas, Program Coordinator

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 377

Partner Institutes

Mauritius
Board of Investment of Mauritius
Nirmala Jeetah, Director, Planning and Policy
Ken Poonoosamy, Managing Director

Lesotho
Private Sector Foundation of Lesotho
O.S.M. Moosa, President
Thabo Qhesi, Chief Executive Officer
Nteboheleng Thaele, Researcher

Joint Economic Council
Raj Makoond, Director

Libya
Libya Development Policy Center
Yusser Al-Gayed, Project Director
Ahmed Jehani, Chairman
Mohamed Wefati, Director

Mexico
Center for Intellectual Capital and Competitiveness
Erika Ruiz Manzur, Executive Director
René Villarreal Arrambide, President and Chief Executive
Officer
Rodrigo David Villarreal Ramos, Director

Lithuania
Statistics Lithuania
Ona Grigiene, Deputy Head, Knowledge Economy
and Special Surveys Statistics Division
Vilija Lapeniene, Director General
Gediminas Samuolis, Head, Knowledge Economy
and Special Surveys Statistics Division

Instituto Mexicano para la Competitividad (IMCO)
Priscila Garcia, Researcher
Manuel Molano, Deputy General Director
Juan E. Pardinas, General Director
Ministry of the Economy
Jose Antonio Torre, Undersecretary for Competitiveness
and Standardization
Enrique Perret Erhard, Technical Secretary for
Competitiveness
Narciso Suarez, Research Director, Technical Secretary
for Competitiveness

Luxembourg
Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce
Christel Chatelain, Research Analyst
Stephanie Musialski, Research Analyst
Carlo Thelen, Chief Economist, Member of the
Managing Board

Moldova
Academy of Economic Studies of Moldova (AESM)
Grigore Belostecinic, Rector

Macedonia, FYR
National Entrepreneurship and Competitiveness
Council (NECC)
Mirjana Apostolova, President of the Assembly
Dejan Janevski, Project Coordinator

Centre for Economic Research (CER)
Corneliu Gutu, Director

Madagascar
Centre of Economic Studies, University of Antananarivo
Ravelomanana Mamy Raoul, Director
Razato Rarijaona Simon, Executive Secretary

Mongolia
Open Society Forum (OSF)
Munkhsoyol Baatarjav, Manager of Economic Policy
Erdenejargal Perenlei, Executive Director

Malawi
Malawi Confederation of Chambers of Commerce and
Industry
Hope Chavula, Public Private Dialogue Manager
Chancellor L. Kaferapanjira, Chief Executive Officer

Montenegro
Institute for Strategic Studies and Prognoses (ISSP)
Maja Drakic, Project Manager
Petar Ivanovic, Chief Executive Officer
Veselin Vukotic, President

Malaysia
Institute of Strategic and International Studies (ISIS)
Jorah Ramlan, Senior Analyst, Economics
Steven C.M. Wong, Senior Director, Economics
Mahani Zainal Abidin, Chief Executive

Morocco
Comité National de l’Environnement des Affaires
Seloua Benmbarek, Head of Mission
Mozambique
EconPolicy Research Group, Lda.
Peter Coughlin, Director
Donaldo Miguel Soares, Researcher
Ema Marta Soares, Assistant

Malaysia Productivity Corporation (MPC)
Mohd Razali Hussain, Director General
Lee Saw Hoon, Senior Director
Mali
Groupe de Recherche en Economie Appliquée et
Théorique (GREAT)
Massa Coulibaly, Executive Director

Namibia
Institute for Public Policy Research (IPPR)
Graham Hopwood, Executive Director

Malta
Competitive Malta—Foundation for National Competitiveness
Margrith Lutschg-Emmenegger, Vice President
Adrian Said, Chief Coordinator
Caroline Sciortino, Research Coordinator
Mauritania
Centre d’Information Mauritanien pour le Développement
Economique et Technique (CIMDET/CCIAM)
Lô Abdoul, Consultant and Analyst
Mehla Mint Ahmed, Director
Habib Sy, Administrative Agent and Analyst

Nepal
Centre for Economic Development and Administration (CEDA)
Ramesh Chandra Chitrakar, Professor, Country Coordinator
and Project Director
Mahendra Raj Joshi, Member
Hari Dhoj Pant, Officiating Executive Director, Advisor, Survey
project
Netherlands
INSCOPE: Research for Innovation, Erasmus University
Rotterdam
Frans A. J. Van den Bosch, Professor
Henk W. Volberda, Director and Professor
New Zealand
The New Zealand Initiative
Catherine Harland, Research Fellow
Oliver Hartwich, Executive Director

378 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Partner Institutes

Romania
SC VBD Alliance Consulting Srl
Irina Ion, Program Coordinator
Rolan Orzan, General Director

Nigeria
Nigerian Economic Summit Group (NESG)
Frank Nweke Jr., Director General
Chris Okpoko, Associate Director, Research
Foluso Phillips, Chairman

Russian Federation
Bauman Innovation & Eurasia Competitiveness Institute
Katerina Marandi, Programme Manager
Alexey Prazdnichnykh, Principal and Managing Director

Norway
BI Norwegian Business School
Eskil Goldeng, Researcher
Torger Reve, Professor

Stockholm School of Economics, Russia
Igor Dukeov, Area Principal
Carl F. Fey, Associate Dean of Research

Oman
The International Research Foundation
Salem Ben Nasser Al-Ismaily, Chairman
Public Authority for Investment Promotion and Export
Development (PAIPED)
Mehdi Ali Juma, Expert for Economic Research

Rwanda
Private Sector Federation (PSF)
Hannington Namara, Chief Executive Officer
Andrew O. Rwigyema, Head of Research and Policy

Pakistan
Mishal Pakistan
Puruesh Chaudhary, Director Content
Amir Jahangir, Chief Executive Officer

Saudi Arabia
National Competitiveness Center (NCC)
Awwad Al-Awwad, President
Khaldon Mahasen, Vice President

Paraguay
Centro de Análisis y Difusión de Economia Paraguaya
(CADEP)
Dionisio Borda, Research Member
Fernando Masi, Director
María Belén Servín, Research Member

Senegal
Centre de Recherches Economiques Appliquées (CREA),
University of Dakar
Diop Ibrahima Thione, Director

Peru
Centro de Desarrollo Industrial (CDI), Sociedad Nacional
de Industrias
Néstor Asto, Project Director
Luis Tenorio, Executive Director
Philippines
Makati Business Club (MBC)
Michael B. Mundo, Chief Economist
Marc P. Opulencia, Deputy Director
Peter Angelo V. Perfecto, Executive Director

Serbia
Foundation for the Advancement of Economics (FREN)
Mihail Arandarenko, Director
Aleksandar Radivojevic, Project Coordinator
Bojan Ristic, Researcher
Seychelles
Plutus Auditing & Accounting Services
Nicolas Boulle, Partner
Marco L. Francis, Partner
Singapore
Economic Development Board
Anna Chan, Assistant Managing Director, Planning & Policy
Cheng Wai San, Head, Research & Statistics Unit
Teo Xinyu, Executive, Research & Statistics Unit

Management Association of the Philippines (MAP)
Arnold P. Salvador, Executive Director
Poland
Economic Institute, National Bank of Poland
Piotr Boguszewski, Advisor
Jarosław T. Jakubik, Deputy Director

Slovak Republic
Business Alliance of Slovakia (PAS)
Robert Kicina, Executive Director

Portugal
PROFORUM, Associação para o Desenvolvimento da
Engenharia
Ilídio António de Ayala Serôdio, Vice President of the Board
of Directors
Fórum de Administradores de Empresas (FAE)
Paulo Bandeira, General Director
Pedro do Carmo Costa, Member of the Board of Directors
Esmeralda Dourado, President of the Board of Directors
Puerto Rico
Puerto Rico 2000, Inc.
Ivan Puig, President

Slovenia
Institute for Economic Research
Peter Stanovnik, Professor
Sonja Uršic, Senior Research Assistant
University of Ljubljana, Faculty of Economics
Mateja Drnovšek, Professor
Aleš Vahcic, Professor
South Africa
Business Leadership South Africa
Friede Dowie, Director
Thero Setiloane, Chief Executive Officer
Business Unity South Africa
Nomaxabiso Majokweni, Chief Executive Officer
Joan Stott, Executive Director, Economic Policy

Instituto de Competitividad Internacional, Universidad
Interamericana de Puerto Rico
Francisco Montalvo, Project Coordinator

Spain
IESE Business School, International Center for
Competitiveness
María Luisa Blázquez, Research Associate
Antoni Subirà, Professor

Qatar
Qatari Businessmen Association (QBA)
Sarah Abdallah, Deputy General Manager
Issa Abdul Salam Abu Issa, Secretary-General
Social and Economic Survey Research Institute (SESRI)
Hanan Abdul Ibrahim, Associate Director
Darwish Al Emadi, Director

Sri Lanka
Institute of Policy Studies of Sri Lanka (IPS)
Ayodya Galappattige, Research Officer
Dilani Hirimuthugodage, Research Officer
Saman Kelegama, Executive Director

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 379

Partner Institutes

Suriname
Suriname Trade & Industry Association (VSB)
Helen Doelwijt, Executive Secretary
Rene van Essen, Director
Dayenne Wielingen Verwey, Economic Policy Officer

Turkey
TUSIAD Sabanci University Competitiveness Forum
Izak Atiyas, Director
Selcuk Karaata, Vice Director
Sezen Ugurlu, Project Specialist

Swaziland
Federation of Swaziland Employers and Chamber of
Commerce
Mduduzi Lokotfwako, Research Analyst
Zodwa Mabuza, Chief Executive Officer
Nyakwesi Motsa, Administration & Finance Manager

Uganda
Kabano Research and Development Centre
Robert Apunyo, Program Manager
Delius Asiimwe, Executive Director
Francis Mukuya, Research Associate
Ukraine
CASE Ukraine, Center for Social and Economic Research
Dmytro Boyarchuk, Executive Director
Vladimir Dubrovskiy, Leading Economist

Sweden
International University of Entrepreneurship and Technology
Niclas Adler, President
Switzerland
University of St. Gallen, Executive School of Management,
Technology and Law (ES-HSG)
Rubén Rodriguez Startz, Head of Project
Tobias Trütsch, Communications Manager

United Arab Emirates
Abu Dhabi Department of Economic Development
H.E. Mohammed Omar Abdulla, Undersecretary

Taiwan, China
Council for Economic Planning and Development, Executive
Yuan
Hung, J. B., Director, Economic Research Department
Shieh, Chung Chung, Researcher, Economic Research
Department
Wu, Ming-Ji, Deputy Minister

Institute for Social and Economic Research (ISER), Zayed
University
Mouawiya Alawad, Director

Dubai Economic Council
H.E. Hani Al Hamly, Secretary General

Emirates Competitiveness Council
H.E. Abdulla Nasser Lootah, Secretary General
United Kingdom
LSE Enterprise Ltd, London School of Economics and
Political Science
Adam Austerfield, Director of Projects
Niccolo Durazzi, Project Manager
Robyn Klingler Vidra, Researcher

Tajikistan
The Center for Sociological Research “Zerkalo”
Rahima Ashrapova, Assistant Researcher
Qahramon Baqoev, Director
Gulnora Beknazarova, Researcher

Uruguay
Universidad ORT Uruguay
Isidoro Hodara, Professor

Tanzania
Research on Poverty Alleviation (REPOA)
Cornel Jahari, Assistant Researcher
Johansein Rutaihwa, Commissioned Researcher
Samuel Wangwe, Professor and Executive Director

Venezuela
CONAPRI—The Venezuelan Council for Investment Promotion
Litsay Guerrero, Economic Affairs and Investor Services
Manager
Eduardo Porcarelli, Executive Director

Thailand
Sasin Graduate Institute of Business Administration,
Chulalongkorn University
Pongsak Hoontrakul, Senior Research Fellow
Narudee Kiengsiri, President of Sasin Alumni Association
Toemsakdi Krishnamra, Director of Sasin

Vietnam
Ho Chi Minh City Institute for Development Studies (HIDS)
Nguyen Trong Hoa, Professor and President
Du Phuoc Tan, Head of Department
Trieu Thanh Son, Researcher

Thailand Development Research Institute (TDRI)
Somchai Jitsuchon, Research Director
Chalongphob Sussangkarn, Distinguished Fellow
Yos Vajragupta, Senior Researcher

Yemen
Yemeni Businessmen Club (YBC)
Mohammed Esmail Hamanah, Executive Manager
Fathi Abdulwasa Hayel Saeed, Chairman
Moneera Abdo Othman, Project Coordinator

Timor-Leste
East Timor Development Agency (ETDA)
Jose Barreto, Survey Manager
Palmira Pires, Director

MARcon Marketing Consulting
Margret Arning, Managing Director

Chambers of Commerce and Industry of Timor-Leste
Kathleen Fon Ha Tchong Goncalves, Vice-President
Trinidad and Tobago
Arthur Lok Jack Graduate School of Business
Miguel Carillo, Executive Director and Professor of Strategy
Nirmala Harrylal, Director, Internationalisation and Institutional
Relations Centre
The Competitiveness Company
Rolph Balgobin, Chairman
Tunisia
Institut Arabe des Chefs d’Entreprises
Ahmed Bouzguenda, President
Majdi Hassen, Executive Counsellor

380 | The Global Information Technology Report 2013

Zambia
Institute of Economic and Social Research (INESOR),
University of Zambia
Patricia Funjika, Research Fellow
Jolly Kamwanga, Senior Research Fellow and Project
Coordinator
Mubiana Macwan’gi, Director and Professor
Zimbabwe
Graduate School of Management, University of Zimbabwe
A. M. Hawkins, Professor

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Partner Institutes

Bolivia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
El Salvador, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama
INCAE Business School, Latin American Center for
Competitiveness and Sustainable Development (CLACDS)
Ronald Arce, Researcher
Arturo Condo, Rector
Marlene de Estrella, Director of External Relations
Lawrence Pratt, Director
Liberia and Sierra Leone
FJP Development and Management Consultants
Omodele R. N. Jones, Chief Executive Officer

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 381

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The World Economic Forum would like to thank Booz & Company
and Cisco for their invaluable support of this Report.

Booz & Company is a leading global management consulting firm focused on serving and
shaping the senior agenda of the world’s leading institutions. Our founder, Edwin Booz, launched
the profession when he established the first management consulting firm in Chicago in 1914.
Today, we operate globally with more than 3,000 people in 58 offices around the world.
We believe passionately that essential advantage lies within and that a few differentiating
capabilities drive any organization’s identity and success. We work with our clients to discover
and build those strengths and capture the market opportunities where they can earn the right to
win.
We are a firm of practical strategists known for our functional expertise, industry foresight,
and “sleeves rolled up” approach to working with our clients. To learn more about Booz
& Company or to access its thought leadership, visit booz.com/me. Our award-winning
management magazine, strategy+business, is available at strategy-business.com.

Cisco (NASDAQ: CSCO) is the worldwide leader in IT that helps companies seize the
opportunities of tomorrow by proving that amazing things can happen when you connect the
previously unconnected. For ongoing news, please go to http://thenetwork.cisco.com.

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

The Global Information Technology Report 2013 | 383

@ 2013 World Economic Forum

Information and communication technologies (ICTs) have evolved into a key enabling infrastructure
across industries while proving to be a powerful driver of enhanced living conditions and opportunities
around the globe. ICTs have changed the world dramatically over the last decade or so, and they are
bound to continue to do so at an even higher rate as we begin to feel the full effects of the information
revolution.
The Global Information Technology Report 2013, the 12th in the series, analyzes the drivers and
impacts that ICTs can have for economic growth and jobs in a hyperconnected world. Over the past
12 years, the Report has become the most comprehensive and respected international assessment of
the preparedness of economies to leverage the networked economy, providing a unique platform for
public-private dialogue on best policies and for determining what actions will further national ICT
readiness and innovation potential.
Through the methodological framework of the Networked Readiness Index (NRI), the Report
measures the extent to which 144 economies, from both the developed and developing worlds, take
advantage of ICTs and other new technologies to increase their growth and well-being. The NRI
identifies the most relevant factors driving ICT readiness and impacts, providing policymakers,
business leaders, and civil society at large with a useful tool for designing national strategies for
increased networked readiness and for benchmarking their country’s performance against other
relevant comparators.
The Global information Technology Report 2013 features the latest computation and rankings of the
NRI, and in referring to this year’s theme, dives deeper into the connection between ICTs and
economic growth and job creation. As in previous years, it also showcases a number of ICT
development stories of particular interest. In addition, the Report includes detailed profiles for the 144
economies covered this year together with data tables for each of the 54 indicators used in the
computation of the NRI.
The Report is the result of a long-lasting collaboration, dating back to 2002, between the World
Economic Forum and INSEAD.
Written in nontechnical language, the Report appeals to a large audience made up of policymakers,
business leaders, academics, and different organizations of civil society. In line with other projects of
the World Economic Forum’s Global Competitiveness and Benchmarking Network, the Report brings
together a range of leading academics, experts, and industry leaders.
The full Report can be downloaded at www.weforum.org/gitr.

World Economic Forum
91–93 route de la Capite
CH-1223 Cologny/Geneva
Switzerland
Tel.: 	+41 (0) 22 869 1212
Fax: +41 (0) 22 786 2744
contact@weforum.org
www.weforum.org

