Defn: To slap, as with the open hand; to clap together; as the hands.
[Local, U.S.]
Little Isabel leaped up and down, spatting her hands. Judd.

SPATANGOID
Spa*tan"goid, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Spatangoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Spatangoidea.

SPATANGOIDEA
Spat`an*goi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Spatangus, and -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: An order of irregular sea urchins, usually having a more or
less heart-shaped shell with four or five petal-like ambulacra above.
The mouth is edentulous and situated anteriorly, on the under side.

SPATANGUS
Spa*tan"gus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. spatangius a kind of sea urchin,
Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of heart-shaped sea urchins belonging to the
Spatangoidea.

SPATCHCOCK
Spatch"cock`, n.

Defn: See Spitchcock.

SPATE
Spate, n. Etym: [Of Celtic origin; cf. Ir. speid.]

Defn: A river flood; an overflow or inundation. Burns.
Gareth in a showerful spring Stared at the spate. Tennyson.

SPATHA
Spa"tha, n,; pl. Spath?. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A spathe.

SPATHACEOUS
Spa*tha"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a spathe; resembling a spathe; spathal.

SPATHAL
Spa"thal, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with a spathe; as, spathal flowers. Howitt.

SPATHE
Spathe, n. Etym: [L. spatha, Gr. spathe. See Spade for digging.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A special involucre formed of one leaf and inclosing a spadix,
as in aroid plants and palms. See the Note under Bract, and Illust.
of Spadix.

Note: The name is also given to the several-leaved involucre of the
iris and other similar plants.

SPATHED
Spathed, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a spathe or calyx like a sheath.

SPATHIC
Spath"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. spathique, fr. F. & G. spath spar.]

Defn: Like spar; foliated or lamellar; spathose. Spathic iron (Min.),
siderite. See Siderite (a).

SPATHIFORM
Spath"i*form, a. Etym: [F. spathiforme.]

Defn: Resembling spar in form. "The ocherous, spathiform, and
mineralized forms of uranite." Lavoisier (Trans.).

SPATHOSE
Spath"ose`, a. (Min.)

Defn: See Spathic.

SPATHOSE
Spath"ose`, a. Etym: [See Spathe.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a spathe; resembling a spathe; spatheceous; spathal.

SPATHOUS
Spath"ous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Spathose.

SPATHULATE
Spath"u*late, a.

Defn: See Spatulate.

SPATIAL
Spa"tial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to space. "Spatial quantity and relations." L.
H. Atwater.

SPATIALLY
Spa"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: As regards space.

SPATIATE
Spa"ti*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. spatiatus, p.p. of spatiari, fr.
spatiatum. See Space.]

Defn: To rove; to ramble. [Obs.] Bacon.

SPATTER
Spat"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Spattering.]
Etym: [From the root of spit salvia.]

1. To sprinkle with a liquid or with any wet substance, as water,
mud, or the like; to make wet of foul spots upon by sprinkling; as,
to spatter a coat; to spatter the floor; to spatter boots with mud.
Upon any occasion he is to be spattered over with the blood of his
people. Burke.

2. To distribute by sprinkling; to sprinkle around; as, to spatter
blood. Pope.

3. Fig.: To injure by aspersion; to defame; to soil; also, to throw
out in a defamatory manner.

SPATTER
Spat"ter, v. i.

Defn: To throw something out of the mouth in a scattering manner; to
sputter.
That mind must needs be irrecoverably depraved, which, . . . tasting
but once of one just deed, spatters at it, and abhors the relish ever
after. Milton.

SPATTERDASHED
Spat"ter*dashed`, a.

Defn: Wearing spatterdashes. [Colloq.] Thackeray.

SPATTERDASHES
Spat"ter*dash`es, n. pl. Etym: [Spatter + dash.]

Defn: Coverings for the legs, to protect them from water and mud;
long gaiters.

SPATTER-DOCK
Spat`ter-dock`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The common yellow water lily (Nuphar advena).

SPATTLE
Spat"tle, n.

Defn: Spawl; spittle. [Obs.] Bale.

SPATTLE
Spat"tle, n.

1. A spatula.

2. (Pottery)

Defn: A tool or implement for mottling a molded article with coloring
matter Knoght.

SPATTLING-POPPY
Spat"tling-pop"py, n. Etym: [Prov. E. spattle to spit + E. poppy.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A kind of catchfly (Silene inflata) which is sometimes frothy
from the action of captured insects.

SPATULA
Spat"u*la, n. Etym: [L. spatula, spathula, dim. of spatha a spatula:
F. spatule. See Spade for digging.]

Defn: An implement shaped like a knife, flat, thin, and somewhat
flexible, used for spreading paints, fine plasters, drugs in
compounding prescriptions, etc. Cf. Palette knife, under Palette.

SPATULATE
Spat"u*late, a. Etym: [NL. spatulatus.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Shaped like spatula, or like a battledoor, being roundish, with
a long, narrow, linear base. [Also written spathulate.]

SPAULD
Spauld, n. Etym: [See Spall the shoulder.]

Defn: The shoulder. [Scot.]

SPAVIN
Spav"in, n. Etym: [OE. spaveyne, OF. esparvain, F. eparvin; akin to
OF. espervier a sparrow hawk, F. epervier, fr. OHG. sparwari (G.
sperber), fr. OHG. sparo sparrow, because this disease makes the
horse raise the infirm leg in the manner of a sparrow hawk or
sparrow. See Sparrow.] (Far.)

Defn: A disease of horses characterized by a bony swelling developed
on the hock as the result of inflammation of the bones; also, the
swelling itself. The resulting lameness is due to the inflammation,
and not the bony tumor as popularly supposed. Harbaugh. Bog spavin, a
soft swelling produced by distention of the capsular ligament of the
hock; -- called also blood spavin.
 -- Bone spavin, spavin attended with exostosis; ordinary spavin.

SPAVINED
Spav"ined, a.

Defn: Affected with spavin.

SPAW
Spaw, n.

Defn: See Spa.

SPAWL
Spawl, n.

Defn: A splinter or fragment, as of wood or stone. See Spall.

SPAWL
Spawl, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. spatl, fr. sp?tan to spit; probably akin to
spiwan, E. spew. Cf. Spew.]

Defn: Scattered or ejected spittle.

SPAWL
Spawl, v. i. & t. [imp. & p. p. Spawled; p. pr. & vb. n. Spawling.]
Etym: [Cf. AS. spatlian.]

Defn: To scatter spittle from the mouth; to spit, as saliva.
Why must he sputter, spawl, and slaver it In vain, against the
people's favorite. Swift.

SPAWLING
Spawl"ing, n.

Defn: That which is spawled, or spit out.

SPAWN
Spawn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spawned; p. pr. & vb. n. Spawning.] Etym:
[OE. spanen, OF. espandre, properly, to shed, spread, L. expandere to
spread out. See Expand.]

1. To produce or deposit (eggs), as fishes or frogs do.

2. To bring forth; to generate; -- used in contempt.
One edition [of books] spawneth another. Fuller.

SPAWN
Spawn, v. i.

1. To deposit eggs, as fish or frogs do.

2. To issue, as offspring; -- used contemptuously.

SPAWN
Spawn, n. Etym: [sq. root170. See Spawn, v. t.]

1. The ova, or eggs, of fishes, oysters, and other aquatic animals.

2. Any product or offspring; -- used contemptuously.

3. (Hort.)

Defn: The buds or branches produced from underground stems.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: The white fibrous matter forming the matrix from which fungi.
Spawn eater (Zool.), a small American cyprinoid fish (Notropis
Hudsonius) allied to the dace.

SPAWNER
Spawn"er, n.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A mature female fish.
The barbel, for the preservation or their seed, both the spawner and
the milter, cover their spawn with sand. Walton.

2. Whatever produces spawn of any kind.

SPAY
Spay, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Spaying.] Etym:
[Cf. Armor. spac'hein, spaza to geld, W. dyspaddu to geld, L. spado a
eunuch, Gr.

Defn: To remove or extirpate the ovaries of, as a sow or a bitch; to
castrate (a female animal).

SPAY
Spay, n. Etym: [Cf. Spade a spay, Spay, v. t.] (Zool.)

Defn: The male of the red deer in his third year; a spade.

SPAYAD; SPAYADE
Spay"ad, Spay"ade, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A spay.

SPEAK
Speak, v. i. [imp. Spoke (Spake ( Archaic); p. p. Spoken (Spoke, Obs.
or Colloq.); p. pr. & vb. n. Speaking.] Etym: [OE. speken, AS.
specan, sprecan; akin to OF.ries. spreka, D. spreken, OS. spreken, G.
sprechen, OHG. sprehhan, and perhaps to Skr. sphurj to crackle, to
thunder. Cf. Spark of fire, Speech.]

1. To utter words or articulate sounds, as human beings; to express
thoughts by words; as, the organs may be so obstructed that a man may
not be able to speak.
Till at the last spake in this manner. Chaucer.
Speak, Lord; for thy servant heareth. 1 Sam. iii. 9.

2. To express opinions; to say; to talk; to converse.
That fluid substance in a few minutes begins to set, as the tradesmen
speak. Boyle.
An honest man, is able to speak for himself, when a knave is not.
Shak.
During the century and a half which followed the Conquest, there is,
to speak strictly, no English history. Macaulay.

3. To utter a speech, discourse, or harangue; to adress a public
assembly formally.
Many of the nobility made themselves popular by speaking in
Parliament against those things which were most grateful to his
majesty. Clarendon.

4. To discourse; to make mention; to tell.
Lycan speaks of a part of C?sar's army that came to him from the
Leman Lake. Addison.

5. To give sound; to sound.
Make all our trumpets speak. Shak.

6. To convey sentiments, ideas, or intelligence as if by utterance;
as, features that speak of self-will.
Thine eye begins to speak. Shak.
To speak of, to take account of, to make mention of. Robynson (More's
Utopia).
 -- To speak out, to speak loudly and distinctly; also, to speak
unreservedly.
 -- To speak well for, to commend; to be favorable to.
 -- To speak with, to converse with. "Would you speak with me" Shak.

Syn.
 -- To say; tell; talk; converse; discourse; articulate; pronounce;
utter.

SPEAK
Speak, v. t.

1. To utter with the mouth; to pronounce; to utter articulately, as
human beings.
They sat down with him upn ground seven days and seven nights, and
none spake a word unto him. Job. ii. 13.

2. To utter in a word or words; to say; to tell; to declare orally;
as, to speak the truth; to speak sense.

3. To declare; to proclaim; to publish; to make known; to exhibit; to
express in any way.
It is my father;s muste To speak your deeds. Shak.
Speaking a still good morrow with her eyes. Tennyson.
And for the heaven's wide circuit, let it speak The maker's high
magnificence. Milton.
Report speaks you a bonny monk. Sir W. Scott.

4. To talk or converse in; to utter or pronounce, as in conversation;
as, to speak Latin.
And French she spake full fair and fetisely. Chaucer.

5. To address; to accost; to speak to.
[He will] thee in hope; he will speak thee fair. Ecclus. xiii. 6.
each village senior paused to scan And speak the lovely caravan.
Emerson.
To speak a ship (Naut.), to hail and speak to her captain or
commander.

SPEAKABLE
Speak"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being spoken; fit to be spoken. Ascham.

2. Able to speak. Milton.

SPEAKER
Speak"er, n.

1. One who speaks. Specifically:
(a) One who utters or pronounces a discourse; usually, one who utters
a speech in public; as, the man is a good speaker, or a bad speaker.
(b) One who is the mouthpiece of others; especially, one who presides
over, or speaks for, a delibrative assembly, preserving order and
regulating the debates; as, the Speaker of the House of Commons,
originally, the mouthpiece of the House to address the king; the
Speaker of a House of Representatives.

2. A book of selections for declamation. [U. S.]

SPEAKERSHIP
Speak"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office of speaker; as, the speakership of the House of
Representatives.

SPEAKING
Speak"ing, a.

1. Uttering speech; used for conveying speech; as, man is a speaking
animal; a speaking tube.

2. Seeming to be capable of speech; hence, lifelike; as, a speaking
likeness. A speaking acquaintance, a slight acquaintance with a
person, or one which merely permits the exchange of salutations and
remarks on indifferent subjects.
 -- Speaking trumpet, an instrument somewhat resembling a trumpet, by
which the sound of the human voice may be so intensified as to be
conveyed to a great distance.
 -- Speaking tube, a tube for conveying speech, especially from one
room to another at a distance.
 -- To be on speaking terms, to be slightly acquainted.

SPEAKING
Speak"ing, n.

1. The act of uttering words.

2. Public declamation; oratory.

SPEAR
Spear, n. Etym: [OE. spere, AS. spere; akin to D. & G. speer, OS. &
OHS. sper, Icel. spjor, pl., Dan. sp?r, L. sparus.]

1. A long, pointed weapon, used in war and hunting, by thrusting or
throwing; a weapon with a long shaft and a sharp head or blade; a
lance.

Note: [See Illust. of Spearhead.] "A sharp ground spear." Chaucer.
They shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into
pruning hooks. Micah iv. 3.

2. Fig.: A spearman. Sir W. Scott.

3. A sharp-pointed instrument with barbs, used for stabbing fish and
other animals.

4. A shoot, as of grass; a spire.

5. The feather of a horse. See Feather, n., 4.

6. The rod to which the bucket, or plunger, of a pump is attached; a
pump rod. Spear foot, the off hind foot of a horse.
 -- Spear grass. (Bot.) (a) The common reed. See Reed, n., 1. (b)
meadow grass. See under Meadow.
 -- Spear hand, the hand in which a horseman holds a spear; the right
hand. Crabb.
 -- Spear side, the male line of a family. Lowell.
 -- Spear thistle (Bot.), the common thistle (Cnicus lanceolatus).

SPEAR
Spear, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Speared; p. pr. & vb. n. Spearing.]

Defn: To pierce with a spear; to kill with a spear; as, to spear a
fish.

SPEAR
Spear, v. i.

Defn: To shoot into a long stem, as some plants. See Spire. Mortimer.

SPEARER
Spear"er, n.

Defn: One who uses a spear; as, a spearer of fish.

SPEARFISH
Spear"fish`, n. (Zool.)
(a) A large and powerful fish (Tetrapturus albidus) related to the
swordfish, but having scales and ventral fins. It is found on the
American coast and the Mediterranean.
(b) The carp sucker.

SPEARHEAD
Spear"head`, n.

Defn: The pointed head, or end, of a spear.

SPEARMAN
Spear"man, n.; pl. Spearmen (.

Defn: One who is armed with a spear. Acts xxiii. 23.

SPEARMINT
Spear"mint`, n. Etym: [So named from its spiry, not capitate,
inflorescence. Dr. Prior.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of mint (Mentha viridis) growing in moist soil. It
vields an aromatic oil. See Mint, and Mentha.

SPEARWOOD
Spear"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Australian tree (Acacia Doratoxylon), and its tough wood,
used by the natives for spears.

SPEARWORT
Spear"wort`, n. Etym: [AS. sperewyrt.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several species of crowfoot (Ranunculus) which
have spear-shaped leaves.

SPEARY
Spear"y, a.

Defn: Having the form of a spear.

SPECE
Spece, n.

Defn: Species; kind. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SPECHT
Specht, n. Etym: [See Speight.] (Zool.)

Defn: A woodpecker. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Sherwood.

SPECIAL
Spe"cial, a. Etym: [L. specialis, fr. species a particular sort,
kind, or quality: cf. F. special. See Species, and cf. Especial.]

1. Of or pertaining to a species; constituting a species or sort.
A special is called by the schools a "species". I. Watts.

2. Particular; peculiar; different from others; extraordinary;
uncommon.
Our Savior is represented everywhere in Scripture as the special
patron of the poor and the afficted. Atterbury.
To this special evil an improvement of style would apply a special
redress. De Quincey.

3. Appropriate; designed for a particular purpose, occasion, or
person; as, a special act of Parliament or of Congress; a special
sermon.

4. Limited in range; confined to a definite field of action,
investigation, or discussion; as, a special dictionary of commercial
terms; a special branch of study.

5. Chief in excellence. [Obs.]
The king hath drawn The special head of all the land together. Shak.
Special administration (Law), an administration limited to certain
specified effects or acts, or one granted during a particular time or
the existence of a special cause, as during a controversy respecting
the probate of a will, or the right of administration, etc.
 -- Special agency, an agency confined to some particular matter.
 -- Special bail, Bail above, or Bail to the action (Law), sureties
who undertake that, if the defendant is convicted, he shall satisfy
the plaintiff, or surrender himself into custody. Tomlins. Wharton
(Law Dict.).
 -- Special constable. See under Constable. Bouvier.
 -- Special damage (Law), a damage resulting from the act complained
of, as a natural, but not the necessary, consequence of it.
 -- Special demurrer (Law), a demurrer for some defect of form in the
opposite party pleading, in which the cause of demurrer is
particularly stated.
 -- Special deposit, a deposit made of a specific thing to be kept
distinct from others.
 -- Special homology. (Biol.) See under Homology.
 -- Special injuction (Law), an injuction granted on special grounds,
arising of the circumstances of the case. Daniell.
 -- Special issue (Law), an issue produced upon a special plea.
Stephen.
 -- Special jury (Law), a jury consisting of persons of some
particular calling, station, or qualification, which is called upon
motion of either party when the cause is supposed to require it; a
struck jury.
 -- Special orders (Mil.), orders which do not concern, and are not
published to, the whole command, such as those relating to the
movement of a particular corps, a detail, a temporary camp, etc.
 -- Special partner, a limited partner; a partner with a limited or
restricted responsibility; -- unknown at common law.
 -- Special partnership, a limited or particular partnership; -- a
term sometimes applied to a partnership in a particular business,
operation, or adventure.
 -- Special plea in bar (Law), a plea setting forth particular and
new matter, distinguished from the general issue. Bouvier.
 -- Special pleader (Law), originally, a counsel who devoted himself
to drawing special counts and pleas; in a wider sense, a lawyer who
draws pleadings.
 -- Special pleading (Law), the allegation of special or new matter,
as distingiushed from a direct denial of matter previously alleged on
the side. Bouvier. The popular denomination of the whole science of
pleading. Stephen. The phrase is sometimes popularly applied to the
specious, but unsound, argumentation of one whose aim is victory, and
not truth. Burrill.
 -- Special property (Law), a qualified or limited ownership
possession, as in wild animals, things found or bailed.
 -- Special session, an extraordinary session; a session at an
unusual time or for an unusual purpose; as, a special session of
Congress or of a legislature.
 -- Special statute, or Special law, an act of the legislature which
has reference to a particular person, place, or interest; -- in
distinction from a general law.
 -- Special verdict (Law), a special finding of the facts of the
case, leaving to the court the application of the law to them.
Wharton (Law Dict.).

Syn.
 -- Peculiar; appropriate; specific; dictinctive; particular;
exceptional; singular. See Peculiar.

SPECIAL
Spe"cial, n.

1. A particular. [Obs.] Hammond.

2. One appointed for a special service or occasion. In special,
specially; in particular. Chaucer.

SPECIALISM
Spe"cial*ism, n.

Defn: Devotion to a particular and restricted part or branch of
knowledge, art, or science; as, medical specialism.

SPECIALIST
Spe"cial*ist, n.

Defn: One who devotes himself to some specialty; as, a medical
specialist, one who devotes himself to diseases of particular parts
of the body, as the eye, the ear, the nerves, etc.

SPECIALITY
Spe`ci*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Specialities. Etym: [See Special, and
Specialty.]

1. A particular or peculiar case; a particularity. Sir M. Hale.

2. (Law)

Defn: See Specialty, 3.

3. The special or peculiar mark or characteristic of a person or
thing; that for which a person is specially distinguished; an object
of special attention; a special occupation or object of attention; a
specialty.
On these two general heads all other specialities are depedent.
Hooker.
Strive, while improving your one talent, to enrich your whole capital
as a man. It is in this way that you escape from the wretched narrow-
mindedness which is the characteristic of every one who cultivates
his speciality. Ld. Lytton.
We 'll say, instead, the inconsequent creature man, -For that'a his
speciality. Mrs. Browning.
Think of this, sir, . . . remote from the impulses of passion, and
apart from the specialities -- if I may use that strong remark -- of
prejudice. Dickens.

4. An attribute or quality peculiar to a species.

SPECIALIZATION
Spe`cial*i*za"tion, n.

1. The act of specializing, or the state of being spezialized.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: The setting spart of a particular organ for the performance of
a particular function. Darwin.

SPECIALIZE
Spe"cial*ize, v. t.

1. To mention specialy; to particularize.

2. To apply to some specialty or limited object; to assign to a
specific use; as, specialized knowledge.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: To supply with an organ or organs having a special function or
functions.

SPECIALLY
Spe"cial*ly, adv.

1. In a special manner; partcularly; especially. Chaucer.

2. For a particular purpose; as, a meeting of the legislature is
specially summoned.

SPECIALTY
Spe"cial*ty, n.; pl. Specialties. Etym: [F. specialite. Cf.
Speciality.]

1. Particularity.
Specialty of rule hath been neglected. Shak.

2. A particular or peculiar case. [Obs.]

3. (Law)

Defn: A contract or obligation under seal; a contract by deed; a
writing, under seal, given as security for a debt particularly
specified. Chitty. Bouvier. Wharton (Law Dict.).
Let specialties be therefore drawn between us. Shak.

4. That for which a person is distinguished, in which he is specially
versed, or which he makes an object of special attention; a
speciality.
Men of boundless knowledge, like Humbold, must have had once their
specialty, their pet subject. C. Kingsley.

SPECIE
Spe"ci*e,

Defn: abl. of L. species sort, kind. Used in the phrase in specie,
that is, in sort, in kind, in (its own) form.
"[The king] expects a return in specie from them" [i. e., kindness
for kindness]. Dryden.
In specie (Law), in precise or definite form; specifically; according
to the exact terms; of the very thing.

SPECIE
Spe"cie, n. Etym: [Formed as a singular from species, in sense 5.]

Defn: Coin; hard money.

SPECIES
Spe"cies, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [L., a sight, outward appearance,
shape, form, a particular sort, kind, or quality, a species. See
Spice, n., and cf. Specie, Special.]

1. Visible or sensible presentation; appearance; a sensible percept
received by the imagination; an image. [R.] "The species of the
letters illuminated with indigo and violet." Sir I. Newton.
Wit, . . . the faculty of imagination in the writer, which searches
over all the memory for the species or ideas of those things which it
designs to represent. Dryden.

Note: In the scholastic philosophy, the species was sensible and
intelligible. The sensible species was that in any material, object
which was in fact discerned by the mind through the organ of
perception, or that in any object which rendered it possible that it
should be perceived. The sensible species, as apprehended by the
understanding in any of the relations of thought, was called an
intelligible species. "An apparent diversity between the species
visible and audible is, that the visible doth not mingle in the
medium, but the audible doth." Bacon.

2. (Logic)

Defn: A group of individuals agreeing in common attributes, and
designated by a common name; a conception subordinated to another
conception, called a genus, or generic conception, from which it
differs in containing or comprehending more attributes, and extending
to fewer individuals. Thus, man is a species, under animal as a
genus; and man, in its turn, may be regarded as a genus with respect
to European, American, or the like, as species.

3. In science, a more or less permanent group of existing things or
beings, associated according to attributes, or properties determined
by scientific observation.

Note: In mineralogy and chemistry, objects which possess the same
definite chemical structure, and are fundamentally the same in
crystallization and physical characters, are classed as belonging to
a species. In zoology and botany, a species is an ideal group of
individuals which are believed to have descended from common
ancestors, which agree in essential characteristics, and are capable
of indefinitely continued fertile reproduction through the sexes. A
species, as thus defined, differs from a variety or subspecies only
in the greater stability of its characters and in the absence of
individuals intermediate between the related groups.

4. A sort; a kind; a variety; as, a species of low cunning; a species
of generosity; a species of cloth.

5. Coin, or coined silver, gold, ot other metal, used as a
circulating medium; specie. [Obs.]
There was, in the splendor of the Roman empire, a less quantity of
current species in Europe than there is now. Arbuthnot.

6. A public spectacle or exhibition. [Obs.] Bacon.

7. (Pharmacy)
(a) A component part of compound medicine; a simple.
(b) (Med.) An officinal mixture or compound powder of any kind; esp.,
one used for making an aromatic tea or tisane; a tea mixture. Quincy.

8. (Civil Law)

Defn: The form or shape given to materials; fashion or shape; form;
figure. Burill. Incipient species (Zool.), a subspecies, or variety,
which is in process of becoming permanent, and thus changing to a
true species, usually by isolation in localities from which other
varieties are excluded.

SPECIFIABLE
Spec"i*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Admitting specification; capable of being specified.

SPECIFIC
Spe*cif"ic, a. Etym: [F. specifique, or NL. cpesificus; L. species a
particular sort or kind + facere to make. Cf. Specify.]

1. Of or pertaining to a species; characterizing or constituting a
species; possessing the peculiar property or properties of a thing
which constitute its species, and distinguish it from other things;
as, the specific form of an animal or a plant; the specific qualities
of a drug; the specific distinction between virtue and vice.
Specific difference is that primary attribute which distinguishes
each species from one another. I. Watts.

2. Specifying; definite, or making definite; limited; precise;
discriminating; as, a specific statement.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Exerting a peculiar influence over any part of the body;
preventing or curing disease by a peculiar adaption, and not on
general principles; as, quinine is a specific medicine in cases of
malaria.
In fact, all medicines will be found specific in the perfection of
the science. Coleridge.
Specific character (Nat. Hist.), a characteristic or characteristics
distinguishing one species from every other species of the same
genus.
 -- Specific disease (Med.) (a) A disease which produces a
determinate definite effect upon the blood and tissues or upon some
special tissue. (b) A disease which is itself uniformly produced by a
definite and peculiar poison or organism.
 -- Specific duty. (Com.) See under Duty.
 -- Specific gravity. (Physics) See under Gravity.
 -- Specific heat (Physics), the quantity of heat required to raise
temperature of a body one degree, taking as the unit of measure the
quantity required to raise the same weight of water from zero to one
degree; thus, the specific heat of mercury is 0.033, that of water
being 1.000.
 -- Specific inductive capacity (Physics), the effect of a dielectric
body in producing static electric induction as compared with that of
some other body or bodies referred to as a standard.
 -- Specific legacy (Law), a bequest of a particular thing, as of a
particular animal or piece of furniture, specified and distinguished
from all others. Wharton. Burrill.
 -- Specific name (Nat., Hist.), the name which, appended to the name
of the genus, constitutes the distinctive name of the species; --
originally applied by Linn?us to the essential character of the
species, or the essential difference. The present specific name he at
first called the trivial name.
 -- Specific performance (Law), the peformance of a contract or
agreement as decreed by a court of equity.

SPECIFIC
Spe*cif"ic, n.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A specific remedy. See Specific, a., 3.
His parents were weak enough to believe that the royal touch was a
specific for this malady. Macaulay.

2. Anything having peculiar adaption to the purpose to which it is
applied. Dr. H. More.

SPECIFICAL
Spe*cif"ic*al, a.

Defn: Specific. Bacon.

SPECIFICALLY
Spe*cif"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a specific manner.

SPECIFICALNESS
Spe*cif"ic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being specific.

SPECIFICATE
Spe*cif"i*cate, v. t. Etym: [See Specify.]

Defn: To show, mark, or designate the species, or the distinguishing
particulars of; to specify. [Obs.] ir M. Hale.

SPECIFICATION
Spec`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. specification, LL. specificatio.]

1. The act of specifying or determining by a mark or limit; notation
of limits.
This specification or limitation of the question hinders the
disputers from wandering away from the precise point of inquiry. I.
Watts.

2. The designation of particulars; particular mention; as, the
specification of a charge against an officer.

3. A written statement containing a minute description or enumeration
of particulars, as of charges against a public officer, the terms of
a contract, the description of an invention, as in a patent; also, a
single article, item, or particular, an allegation of a specific act,
as in a charge of official misconduct.

SPECIFICNESS
Spe*cif"ic*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being specific.

SPECIFY
Spec"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Specified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Specifying.] Etym: [F. specifier, or OF. especifier, fr. LL.
specificare. See Species, -fy.]

Defn: To mention or name, as a particular thing; to designate in
words so as to distinguish from other things; as, to specify the uses
of a plant; to specify articles purchased.
He has there given us an exact geography of Greece, where the
countries and the uses of their soils are specified. Pope.

SPECILLUM
Spe*cil"lum, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: See Stylet, 2.

SPECIMEN
Spec"i*men, n. Etym: [L., fr. specere to look, to behold. See Spy.]

Defn: A part, or small portion, of anything, or one of a number of
things, intended to exhibit the kind and quality of the whole, or of
what is not exhibited; a sample; as, a specimen of a man's
handwriting; a specimen of painting; aspecimen of one's art.

Syn.
 -- Sample; model; pattern.
 -- Specimen, Sample. A specimen is a representative of the class of
things to which it belongs; as, a specimen of photography. A sample
is a part of the thing itself, designed to show the quality of the
whole; as, a sample of sugar or of broadcloth. A cabinet of minerals
consists of specimens; if a part be broken off from any one of these,
it is a sample of the mineral to which it belongs. "Several persons
have exhibited specimens of this art before multitudes of beholders."
Addison. "I design this but for a sample of what I hope more fully to
discuss." Woodward.

SPECIOSITY
Spe`ci*os"i*ty, n.; pl. Speciocities. Etym: [Cf. LL. speciositas.]

1. The quality or state of being specious; speciousness.
Professions built so largely on speciosity, instead of performance.
Carlyle.

2. That which is specious. Dr. H. More.

SPECIOUS
Spe"cious, a. Etym: [L. speciosusgood-looking, beautiful, specious,
fr. species look, show, appearance; cf. F. specoeux. See Species.]

1. Presenting a pleasing appearance; pleasing in form or look; showy.
Some [serpents] specious and beautiful to the eye. Bp. Richardson.
The rest, far greater part, Will deem in outward rites and specious
forms Religion satisfied. Milton.

2. Apparently right; superficially fair, just, or correct, but not so
in reality; appearing well at first view; plausible; as, specious
reasoning; a specious argument.
Misled for a moment by the specious names of religion, liberty, and
property. Macaulay.
In consequence of their greater command of specious expression. J.
Morley.

Syn.
 -- Plausible; showy; ostensible; colorable; feasible. See Plausible.
 -- Spe"xious*ly, adv.
 -- Spe"cious*ness, n.

SPECK
Speck, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. spik blubber, AS. spic, D. spek, G.
speck.]

Defn: The blubber of whales or other marine mammals; also, the fat of
the hippopotamus. Speck falls (Naut.), falls or ropes rove through
blocks for hoisting the blubber and bone of whales on board a whaling
vessel.

SPECK
Speck, n. Etym: [OE. spekke, AS. specca; cf. LG. spaak.]

1. A small discolored place in or on anything, or a small place of a
color different from that of the main substance; a spot; a stain; a
blemish; as, a speck on paper or loth; specks of decay in fruit.
"Gray sand, with black specks." Anson.

2. A very small thing; a particle; a mite; as, specks of dust; he has
not a speck of money.
Many bright specks bubble up along the blue Egean. Landor.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A small etheostomoid fish (Ulocentra stigm?a) common in the
Eastern United States.

SPECK
Speck, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Specked; p. pr. & vb. n. Specking.]

Defn: To cause the presence of specks upon or in, especially specks
regarded as defects or blemishes; to spot; to speckle; as, paper
specked by impurities in the water used in its manufacture.
Carnation, purple, azure, or specked with gold. Milton.

SPECKLE
Spec"kle, n. Etym: [Dim. of speck; cf. D. spikkel.]

Defn: A little or spot in or anything, of a different substance or
color from that of the thing itself.
An huge great serpent, all with speckles pied. Spebser.

SPECKLE
Spec"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Speckled; p. pr. & vb. n. Speckling.]

Defn: To mark with small spots of a different color from that of the
rest of the surface; to variegate with spots of a different color
from the ground or surface.

SPECKLED
Spec"kled, a.

Defn: Marked or variegated with small spots of a different color from
that of the rest of the surface. Speckled Indians (Ethnol.), the
Pintos.
 -- Speckled trout. (Zool.) (a) The common American brook trout. See
Trout. (b) The rainbow trout.

SPECKLED-BELLY
Spec"kled-bel`ly, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The gadwall. [Local, U.S.]

SPECKLED-BILL
Spec"kled-bill", n. (Zool.)

Defn: The American white-fronted goose (Anser albifrons).

SPECKLEDNESS
Spec"kled*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being speckled.

SPECKSIONEER
Speck`sion*eer", n.

Defn: The chief harpooner, who also directs in cutting up the speck,
or blubber; -- so called among whalers.

SPECKT
Speckt, n.

Defn: A woodpecker. See Speight.

SPECTACLE
Spec"ta*cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. spectaculum, fr. spectare to look
at, to behold, v. intens. fr. specere. See Spy.]

1. Something exhibited to view; usually, something presented to view
as extraordinary, or as unusual and worthy of special notice; a
remarkable or noteworthy sight; a show; a pageant; a gazingstock.
O, piteous spectacle O, bloody times! Shak.

2. A spy-glass; a looking-glass. [Obs.]
Poverty a spectacle is, as thinketh me, Through which he may his very
friends see. Chaucer.

3. pl.

Defn: An optical instrument consisting of two lenses set in a light
frame, and worn to assist sight, to obviate some defect in the organs
of vision, or to shield the eyes from bright light.

4. pl.

Defn: Fig.: An aid to the intellectual sight.
Shakespeare . . . needed not the spectacles of books to read nature.
Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Show; sight; exhibition; representation; pageant.

SPECTACLED
Spec"ta*cled, a.

1. Furnished with spectacles; wearing spectacles.
As spectacled she sits in chimney nook. Keats.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the eyes surrounded by color markings, or patches of
naked skin, resembling spectacles. Spectacled bear (Zool.), a South
American bear (Tremarclos ornatus) which inhabits the high mountains
of Chili and Peru. It has a light-colored ring around each eye.
 -- Spectacled coot, or Spectacled duck (Zool.), the surf scoter, or
surf duck. [Local, U.S.] -- Spectacled eider (Zool.) See Eider.
 -- Spectacled goose (Zool.), the gannet.
 -- Spectacled snake (Zool.), the cobra de capello.

SPECTACULAR
Spec*tac"u*lar, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a shows; of the nature of a show. "Spectacular
sports." G. Hickes.

2. Adapted to excite wonder and admiration by a display of pomp or of
scenic effects; as, a spectacular celebration of some event; a
spectacular play.

3. Pertaining to spectacles, or glasses for the eyes.

SPECTANT
Spec"tant, a. Etym: [L. spectans, p.pr. of spectare to look at.]

Defn: Looking forward.

SPECTATION
Spec*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. spectatio.]

Defn: Regard; aspect; appearance. Harvey.

SPECTATOR
Spec*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L. spectator: cf. F. spectateur. See
Spectacle.]

Defn: One who on; one who sees or beholds; a beholder; one who is
personally present at, and sees, any exhibition; as, the spectators
at a show. "Devised and played to take spectators." Shak.

Syn.
 -- Looker-on; beholder; observer; witness.

SPECTATORIAL
Spec`ta*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a spectator. Addison.

SPECTATORSHIP
Spec*ta"tor*ship, n.

1. The office or quality of a spectator. [R.] Addison.

2. The act of beholding. [Obs.] Shak.

SPECTATRESS; SPECTATRIX
Spec*ta"tress, Spec*ta"trix, n. Etym: [L. spectatrix.]

Defn: A female beholder or looker-on. "A spectatress of the whole
scene." Jeffrey.

SPECTER; SPECTRE
Spec"ter, Spec"tre, n. Etym: [F. spectre, fr. L. spectrum an
appearance, image, specter, fr. specere to look. See Spy, and cf.
Spectrum.]

1. Something preternaturally visible; an apparition; a ghost; a
phantom.
The ghosts of traitors from the bridge descend, With bold fanatic
specters to rejoice. Dryden.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The tarsius.
(b) A stick insect. Specter bat (Zool.), any phyllostome bat.
 -- Specter candle (Zool.), a belemnite.
 -- Specter shrimp (Zool.), a skeleton shrimp. See under Skeleton.

SPECTIONEER
Spec`tion*eer", n.

Defn: Same as Specsioneer.

SPECTRAL
Spec"tral, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a specter; ghosty.
He that feels timid at the spectral form of evil is not the man to
spread light. F. W. Robertson.

2. (Opt.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the spectrum; made by the spectrum; as,
spectral colors; spectral analysis. Spectral lemur. (Zool.) See
Tarsius.

SPECTRALLY
Spec"tral*ly, adv.

Defn: In the form or manner of a specter.

SPECTRE
Spec"tre, n.

Defn: See Specter.

SPECTROBOLOMETER
Spec`tro*bo*lom"e*ter, n. (Physics)

Defn: A combination of spectroscope and bolometer for determining the
distribution of energy in a spectrum. --Spec`tro*bo`lo*met"ric (#),
a.

SPECTROELECTRIC
Spec`tro*e*lec"tric, a.

Defn: Pert. to or designating any form of spark tube the electric
discharge within which is used in spectroscopic observations.

SPECTROGRAM
Spec"tro*gram, n.  [Spectrum + -gram.] (Physics)

Defn: A photograph, map, or diagram of a spectrum.

SPECTROGRAPH
Spec"tro*graph, n.  [Spectrum + graph.] (Physics)
 (a) An apparatus for photographing or mapping a spectrum.
 (b) A photograph or picture of a spectrum. -- Spec`tro*graph"ic (#),
a. --Spec`tro*graph"ic*al*ly (#), adv. --Spec*trog"ra*phy (#), n.

SPECTROHELIOGRAM
Spec`tro*he"li*o*gram`, n. [Spectrum + heloi- + -gram.]
(Astrophysics)

Defn: A photograph of the sun made by monochromatic light, usually of
the calcium line (k), and showing the sun's facul? and prominences.

SPECTROHELIOGRAPH
Spec`tro*he"li*o*graph, n. (Astrophysics)

Defn: An apparatus for making spectroheliograms, consisting of a
spectroscopic camera used in combination with a telescope, and
provided with clockwork for moving the  sun's image across the slit.
-- Spec`tro*he`li*o*graph"ic (#), a.

SPECTROLOGICAL
Spec`tro*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to spectrology; as, spectrological studies or
experiments.
 -- Spec`tro*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

SPECTROLOGY
Spec*trol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Spectrum + -logy.] (Chem.Phys.)

Defn: The science of spectrum analysis in any or all of its relations
and applications.

SPECTROMETER
Spec*trom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Spectrum + -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: A spectroscope fitted for measurements of the luminious spectra
observed with it.

SPECTROMETRY
Spec*trom"e*try, n. (Physics)

Defn: Art or process of using the spectrometer, or of measuring wave
lengths of rays of a spectrum. -- Spec`tro*met"ric (#), a.

SPECTROPHONE
Spec"tro*phone, n.  [Spectrum + Gr.  sound.]

Defn: An instrument constructed on the principle of the photophone
and used in spectrum analysis as an adjunct to the spectroscope. --
Spec`tro*phon"ic (#), a.

SPECTROPHOTOMETER
Spec`tro*pho*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Spectrum + photometer.] (Opt.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring or comparing the intensites of the
colors of the spectrum.

SPECTROPHOTOMETRY
Spec`tro*pho*tom"e*try, n.

Defn: The art of comparing, photometrically, the brightness of two
spectra, wave length by wave length; the use of the
spectrophotometer. --Spec`tro*pho`to*met"ric (#), a.

SPECTROSCOPE
Spec"tro*scope, n. Etym: [Spectrum + -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An optical instrument for forming and examining spectra (as
that of solar light, or those produced by flames in which different
substances are volatilized), so as to determine, from the position of
the spectral lines, the composition of the substance.

SPECTROSCOPIC; SPECTROSCOPICAL
Spec`tro*scop"ic, Spec`tro*scop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a spectroscope, or spectroscopy.
 -- Spec`tro*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.

SPECTROSCOPIST
Spec*tros"co*pist ( or ), n.

Defn: One who investigates by means of a spectroscope; one skilled in
the use of the spectroscope.

SPECTROSCOPY
Spec*tros"co*py, n.

Defn: The use of the spectroscope; investigations made with the
spectroscope.

SPECTRUM
Spec"trum, n.; pl. Spectra. Etym: [L. See Specter.]

1. An apparition; a specter. [Obs.]

2. (Opt.)
(a) The several colored and other rays of which light is composed,
separated by the refraction of a prism or other means, and observed
or studied either as spread out on a screen, by direct vision, by
photography, or otherwise. See Illust. of Light, and Spectroscope.
(b) A luminous appearance, or an image seen after the eye has been
exposed to an intense light or a strongly illuminated object. When
the object is colored, the image appears of the complementary color,
as a green image seen after viewing a red wafer lying on white paper.
Called also ocular spectrum. Absorption spectrum, the spectrum of
light which has passed through a medium capable of absorbing a
portion of the rays. It is characterized by dark spaces, bands, or
lines.
 -- Chemical spectrum, a spectrum of rays considered solely with
reference to their chemical effects, as in photography. These, in the
usual photogrophic methods, have their maximum influence at and
beyond the violet rays, but are not limited to this region.
 -- Chromatic spectrum, the visible colored rays of the solar
spectrum, exhibiting the seven principal colors in their order, and
covering the central and larger portion of the space of the whole
spectrum.
 -- Continous spectrum, a spectrum not broken by bands or lines, but
having the colors shaded into each other continously, as that from an
incandescent solid or liquid, or a gas under high pressure.
 -- Diffraction spectrum, a spectrum produced by diffraction, as by a
grating.
 -- Gaseous spectrum, the spectrum of an incandesoent gas or vapor,
under moderate, or especially under very low, pressure. It is
characterized by bright bands or lines.
 -- Normal spectrum, a representation of a spectrum arranged upon
conventional plan adopted as standard, especially a spectrum in which
the colors are spaced proportionally to their wave lengths, as when
formed by a diffraction grating.
 -- Ocular spectrum. See Spectrum, 2 (b), above.
 -- Prismatic spectrum, a spectrum produced by means of a prism.
 -- Solar spectrum, the spectrum of solar light, especially as thrown
upon a screen in a darkened room. It is characterized by numerous
dark lines called Fraunhofer lines.
 -- Spectrum analysis, chemical analysis effected by comparison of
the different relative positions and qualities of the fixed lines of
spectra produced by flames in which different substances are burned
or evaporated, each substance having its own characteristic system of
lines.
 -- Thermal spectrum, a spectrum of rays considered solely with
reference to their heating effect, especially of those rays which
produce no luminous phenomena.

SPECULAR
Spec"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. specularis (cf., from the same root, specula
a lookout, watchtower): cf. F. speculaire. See Speculum.]

1. Having the qualities of a speculum, or mirror; having a smooth,
reflecting surface; as, a specular metal; a specular surface.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a speculum; conducted with the aid of a
speculum; as, a specular examination.

3. Assisting sight, as a lens or the like. [Obs.]
Thy specular orb Apply to well-dissected kernels; lo! In each observe
the slender threads Of first-beginning trees. J. Philips.

4. Affording view. [R.] "Look once more, ere we leave this specular
mount." Milton. Specular iron. (Min.) See Hematite.

SPECULATE
Spec"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Speculated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Speculating.] Etym: [L. speculatus, p.p. of speculari to spy out,
observe, fr. specula a lookout, fr. specere to look. See Spy.]

1. To consider by turning a subject in the mind, and viewing it in
its different aspects and relations; to meditate; to contemplate; to
theorize; as, to speculate on questions in religion; to speculate on
political events.
It is remarkable that persons who speculate the most boldly often
conform with the most pefect quietude to the external regulations of
society. Hawthorne.

2. (Philos.)

Defn: To view subjects from certain premises given or assumed, and
infer conclusions respecting them a priori.

3. (Com.)

Defn: To purchase with the expectation of a contingent advance in
value, and a consequent sale at a profit; -- often, in a somewhat
depreciative sense, of unsound or hazardous transactions; as, to
speculate in coffee, in sugar, or in bank stock.

SPECULATE
Spec"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To consider attentively; as, to speculate the nature of a
thing. [R.] Sir W. Hamilton.

SPECULATION
Spec`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. speculatio a spying out, observation:
cf. F. speculation.]

1. The act of speculating. Specifically: --
(a) Examination by the eye; view. [Obs.]
(b) Mental view of anything in its various aspects and relations;
contemplation; intellectual examination.
Thenceforth to speculations high or deep I turned my thoughts.
Milton.
(c) (Philos.)

Defn: The act or process of reasoning a priori from premises given or
assumed.
(d) (Com.) The act or practice of buying land, goods, shares, etc.,
in expectation of selling at a higher price, or of selling with the
expectation of repurchasing at a lower price; a trading on
anticipated fluctuations in price, as distinguished from trading in
which the profit expected is the difference between the retail and
wholesale prices, or the difference of price in different markets. 1
year) is considered investment.
Sudden fortunes, indeed, are sometimes made in such places, by what
is called the trade of speculation. A. Smith.
Speculation, while confined within moderate limits, is the agent for
equalizing supply and demand, and rendering the fluctuations of price
less sudden and abrupt than they would otherwise be. F. A. Walker.

(e) Any business venture in involving unusual risks, with a chance
for large profits.

2. A conclusion to which the mind comes by speculating; mere theory;
view; notion; conjecture.
From him Socrates derived the principles of morality, and most part
of his natural speculations. Sir W. temple.
To his speculations on these subjects he gave the lofty name of the
"Oracles of Reason." Macaulay.

3. Power of sight. [Obs.]
Thou hast no speculation in those eyes. Shak.

4. A game at cards in which the players buy from one another trumps
or whole hands, upon a chance of getting the highest trump dealt,
which entitles the holder to the pool of stakes.

SPECULATIST
Spec"u*la*tist, n.

Defn: One who speculates, or forms theories; a speculator; a
theorist.
The very ingenious speculatist, Mr. Hume. V. Knox.

SPECULATIVE
Spec"u*la*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. speculatif, L. speculativus.]

1. Given to speculation; contemplative.
The mind of man being by nature speculative. Hooker.

2. Involving, or formed by, speculation; ideal; theoretical; not
established by demonstration. Cudworth.

3. Of or pertaining to vision; also, prying; inquisitive; curious.
[R.] Bacon.

4. Of or pertaining to speculation in land, goods, shares, etc.; as,
a speculative dealer or enterprise.
The speculative merchant exercises no one regular, established, or
well-known branch of business. A. Smith.
-- Spec"u*la*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Spec"u*la*tive*ness, n.

SPECULATOR
Spec"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L., a spy, explorer, investigator: cf. F.
speculateur.]

Defn: One who speculates. Specifically: (a) An observer; a
contemplator; hence, a spy; a watcher. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
(b) One who forms theories; a theorist.
A speculator who had dared to affirm that the human soul is by nature
mortal. Macaulay.
(c) (Com.)

Defn: One who engages in speculation; one who buys and sells goods,
land, etc., with the expectation of deriving profit from fluctuations
in price.

SPECULATORIAL
Spec`u*la*to"ri*al, a.

Defn: Speculatory; speculative. [Obs.]

SPECULATORY
Spec"u*la*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. speculatorius belonging to spies or
scouts.]

1. Intended or adapted for viewing or espying; having oversight. T.
Warton.

2. Exercising speculation; speculative. T. Carew.

SPECULIST
Spec"u*list, n.

Defn: One who observes or considers; an observer. [R.] Goldsmith.

SPECULUM
Spec"u*lum, n.; pl. L. Specula, E. Speculum. Etym: [L., fr. specere
to look, behold. See Spy.]

1. A mirror, or looking-glass; especially, a metal mirror, as in
Greek and Roman arch?ology.

2. A reflector of polished metal, especially one used in reflecting
telescopes. See Speculum metal, below.

3. (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument for dilating certain passages of the body, and
throwing light within them, thus facilitating examination or surgical
operations.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: A bright and lustrous patch of color found on the wings of
ducks and some other birds. It is usually situated on the distal
portions of the secondary quills, and is much more brilliant in the
adult male than in the female. Speculum metal, a hard, brittle alloy
used for making the reflectors of telescopes and other instruments,
usually consisting of copper and tin in various proportions, one of
the best being that in which there are 126.4 parts of copper to 58.9
parts of tin, with sometimes a small proportion of arsenic, antimony,
or zinc added to improve the whiteness.

SPED
Sped,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Speed.

SPEECE
Speece, n.

Defn: Species; sort. [Obs.]

SPEECH
Speech, n. Etym: [OE. speche, AS. sp, spr, fr. specan, sprecan, to
speak; akin to D. spraak speech, OHG. sprahha, G. sprache, Sw. spr,
Dan. sprog. See Speak.]

1. The faculty of uttering articulate sounds or words; the faculty of
expressing thoughts by words or articulate sounds; the power of
speaking.
There is none comparable to the variety of instructive expressions by
speech, wherewith man alone is endowed for the communication of his
thoughts. Holder.

2. he act of speaking; that which is spoken; words, as expressing
ideas; language; conversation.

Note: Speech is voice modulated by the throat, tongue, lips, etc.,
the modulation being accomplished by changing the form of the cavity
of the mouth and nose through the action of muscles which move their
walls.
O goode God! how gentle and how kind Ye seemed by your speech and
your visage The day that maked was our marriage. Chaucer.
The acts of God . . . to human ears Can nort without process of
speech be told. Milton.

3. A particular language, as distinct from others; a tongue; a
dialect.
People of a strange speech and of an hard language. Ezek. iii. 6.

4. Talk; mention; common saying.
The duke . . . did of me demand What was the speech among the
Londoners Concerning the French journey. Shak.

5. formal discourse in public; oration; harangue.
The constant design of these orators, in all their speeches, was to
drive some one particular point. Swift.

6. ny declaration of thoughts.
I. with leave of speech implored, . . . replied. Milton.

Syn. Harangue; language; address; oration. See Harangue, and
Language.

SPEECH
Speech, v. i. & t.

Defn: To make a speech; to harangue. [R.]

SPEECHFUL
Speech"ful, a.

Defn: Full of speech or words; voluble; loquacious. [R.]

SPEECHIFICATION
Speech`i*fi*ca"tion, n.Etym: [See Spechify.]

Defn: The act of speechifying. [Used humorously or in contempt.]

SPEECHIFIER
Speech"i*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who makes a speech or speeches; an orator; a declaimer.
[Used humorously or in contempt.] G. Eliot.

SPEECHIFY
Speech"i*fy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Speechified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Speechifying.] Etym: [Speech + -fy.]

Defn: To make a speech; to harangue. [Used derisively or humorously.]

SPEECHIFYING
Speech"i*fy`ing, n.

Defn: The act of making a speech or speeches. [Used derisively or
humorously.]
The dinner and speechifying . . . at the opening of the annual season
for the buckhounds. M. Arnold.

SPEECHING
Speech"ing, n.

Defn: The act of making a speech. [R.]

SPEECHLESS
Speech"less, a.

1. Destitute or deprived of the faculty of speech.

2. Not speaking for a time; dumb; mute; silent.
Speechless with wonder, and half dead with fear. Addison.
-- Speech"less*ly, adv.
 -- Speech"less*ness, n.

SPEECHMAKER
Speech"mak`er, n.

Defn: One who makes speeches; one accustomed to speak in a public
assembly.

SPEED
Speed, n. Etym: [AS. sp success, swiftness, from sp to succeed; akin
to D. spoedd, OHG. spuot success, spuot to succees, Skr. spha to
increase, grow fat. sq. root170b.]

1. Prosperity in an undertaking; favorable issue; success. "For
common speed." Chaucer.
O Lord God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good speed this
day. Gen. xxiv. 12.

2. The act or state of moving swiftly; swiftness; velocity; rapidly;
rate of motion; dispatch; as, the speed a horse or a vessel.
Speed, to describe whose swiftness number fails. Milton.

Note: In kinematics, speedis sometimes used to denote the amount of
velocity without regard to direction of motion, while velocity is not
regarded as known unless both the direction and the amount are known.

3. One who, or that which, causes or promotes speed or success.
[Obs.] "Hercules be thy speed!" Shak. God speed, Good speed;
prosperity. See Godspeed.
 -- Speed gauge, Speed indicator, and Speed recorder (Mach.), devices
for indicating or recording the rate of a body's motion, as the
number of revolutions of a shaft in a given time.
 -- Speed lathe (Mach.), a power lathe with a rapidly revolving
spindle, for turning small objects, for polishing, etc.; a hand
lathe.
 -- Speed pulley, a cone pulley with steps.

Syn.
 -- Haste; swiftness; celerity; quickness; dispatch; expedition;
hurry; acceleration. See Haste.

SPEED
Speed, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sped, Speeded; p. pr. & vb. n. Speeding.]
Etym: [AS. sp, fr. sp, n.; akin to D. spoeden, G. sich sputen. See
Speed, n.]

1. To go; to fare. [Obs.]
To warn him now he is too farre sped. Remedy of Love.

2. To experience in going; to have any condition, good or ill; to
fare. Shak.
Ships heretofore in seas lke fishes sped; The mightiest still upon
the smallest fed. Waller.

3. To fare well; to have success; to prosper.
Save London, and send true lawyers their meed! For whoso wants money
with them shall not speed! Lydgate.
I told ye then he should prevail, and speed On his bad errand.
Milton.

4. To make haste; to move with celerity.
I have speeded hither with the very extremest inch of possibility.
Shak.

5. To be expedient. [Obs.] Wyclif (2 Cor. xii. 1.)

SPEED
Speed, v. t.

1. To cause to be successful, or to prosper; hence, to aid; to favor.
"Fortune speed us!" Shak.
With rising gales that speed their happy flight. Dryden.

2. To cause to make haste; to dispatch with celerity; to drive at
full speed; hence, to hasten; to hurry.
He sped him thence home to his habitation. Fairfax.

3. To hasten to a conclusion; to expedite.
Judicial acts . . . are sped in open court at the instance of one or
both of the parties. Ayliffe.

4. To hurry to destruction; to put an end to; to ruin; to undo. "Sped
with spavins." Shak.
A dire dilemma! either way I 'm sped. If foes, they write, if
friends, they read, me dead. Pope.

5. To wish success or god fortune to, in any undertaking, especially
in setting out upon a journey.
Welkome the coming, speed the parting guest. Pope.
God speed you, them, etc., may God speed you; or, may you have good
speed.

Syn.
 -- To depatch; hasten; expedite; accelerate; hurry.

SPEED COUNTER
Speed counter. (Mach.)

Defn: A device for automatically counting the revolutions or
pulsations of an engine or other machine; -- called also simply
counter.

SPEEDER
Speed"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, speeds.

2. (Spinning)

Defn: A machine for drawing and twisting slivers to form rovings.

SPEEDFUL
Speed"ful, a.

Defn: Full of speed (in any sense). [Obs.]

SPEEDFULLY
Speed"ful*ly, adv.

Defn: In a speedful manner. [Obs.]

SPEEDILY
Speed"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a speedy manner.

SPEEDINESS
Speed"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being speedy.

SPEEDLESS
Speed"less, a.

Defn: Being without speed.

SPEEDWELL
Speed"well, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Veronica, mostly low herbs with pale
blue corollas, which quickly fall off.

SPEEDY
Speed"y, a. [Compar. Speedier; superl. Speediest.] Etym: [AS. sp.]

Defn: Not dilatory or slow; quick; swift; nimble; hasty; rapid in
motion or performance; as, a speedy flight; on speedy foot.
I will wish her speedy strength. Shak.
Darts, which not the good could shun, The speedy ould outfly. Dryden.

SPEER
Speer, n.

Defn: A sphere. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SPEER
Speer, v. t.

Defn: To ask. [Scot.] See Spere.

SPEET
Speet, v. t. Etym: [Cf. D. speten. See Spit an iron prong.]

Defn: To stab. [Obs.] Gammer Gurton's Needle.

SPEIGHT
Speight, n. Etym: [G. specht, probably akin to L. picus: cf. D.
specht. sq. root169. See Pie a magpie.] (Zool.)

Defn: A woodpecker; -- called also specht, spekt, spight. [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.]

SPEIR
Speir, v. i.

Defn: To ask. See Spere. Sir W. Scott.

SPEISKOBALT
Speis`ko"balt, n. Etym: [G.]

Defn: Smaltite.

SPEISS
Speiss, n. Etym: [Cf. G. speise food, mixed metal for bells, etc.]
(Metal.)

Defn: A regulus consisting essentially of nickel, obtained as a
residue in fusing cobalt and nickel ores with silica and sodium
carbonate to make smalt.

SPEKBOOM
Spek"boom, n. Etym: [D., lit. fat tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: The purslane tree of South Africa, -- said to be the favorite
food of elephants. Balfour (Cyc. of India).

SPEKE
Speke, v. i. & t.

Defn: To speak. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SPEKEHOUSE
Speke"house`, n.

Defn: The parlor or reception room of a convent. [Obs.]

SPELDING
Spel"ding, n. Etym: [Scot. speld to spread out, spelder to split.
spread open; cf. G. spalten split.]

Defn: A haddock or other small fish split open and dried in the sun;
-- called also speldron. [Scot.]

SPELICANS
Spel"i*cans, n. pl.

Defn: See Spilikin.

SPELK
Spelk, n. Etym: [AS. spelc, spilc, a little rod by which a thing is
kept straight, a splint for binding up broken bones, akin to Icel.
spelkur, pl., a splint. Cf. Spell a splinter.]

Defn: A small stick or rod used as a spike in thatching; a splinter.
[Prov. Eng.] Grose.

SPELL
Spell, n. Etym: [OE. speld, AS. speld a spill to light a candle with;
akin to D. speld a pin, OD. spelle, G. spalten to split, OHG.
spaltan, MHG. spelte a splinter, Icel. spjald a square tablet, Goth.
spilda a writing tablet. Cf. Spillsplinter, roll of paper, Spell to
tell the letters of.]

Defn: A spelk, or splinter. [Obs.] Holland.

SPELL
Spell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Spelling.] Etym:
[AS. spelian to supply another's place.]

Defn: To supply the place of for a time; to take the turn of, at
work; to relieve; as, to spell the helmsman.

SPELL
Spell, n.

1. The relief of one person by another in any piece of work or
wathing; also, a turn at work which is carried on by one person or
gang relieving another; as, a spellat the pumps; a spell at the
masthead.
A spell at the wheel isc called a trick. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

2. The time during which one person or gang works until relieved;
hence, any relatively short period of time, whether a few hours,
days, or weeks.
Nothing new hass happened in this quarter, except the setting in of a
severe spell of cold weather. Washington.

3. One of two or more persons or gangs who work by spells. [R.]
Their toil is so extreme that they can not endure it above four hours
in a day, but are succeeded by spells. Garew.

4. A gratuitous helping forward of another's work; as, a logging
spell. [Local, U.S.]

SPELL
Spell, n.Etym: [AS. spell a saying, tale, speech; akin to OS. & OHG.
spel, Icel. spjall,Goth. spill. Cf. Gospel, Spell to tell the letters
of.]

1. A story; a tale. [Obs.] "Hearken to my spell." Chaucer.

2. A stanza, verse, or phrase supposed to be endowed with magical
power; an incantation; hence, any charm.
Start not; her actions shall be holy as You hear my spell is lawful.
Shak.

SPELL
Spell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spelled ( or Spelt (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Spelling.] Etym: [OE. spellen, spellien, tell, relate, AS. spellian,
fr. spell a saying, tale; akin to MHG. spellen to relate, Goth.
spill.e Spell a tale. In sense 4 and those following, OE. spellen,
perhaps originally a different word, and from or influenced by spell
a splinter, from the use of a piece of wood to point to the letters
in schools: cf. D. spellen to spell. Cf. Spell splinter.]

1. To tell; to relate; to teach. [Obs.]
Might I that legend find, By fairies spelt in mystic rhymes. T.
Warton.

2. To put under the influence of a spell; to affect by a spell; to
bewitch; to fascinate; to charm. "Spelled with words of power."
Dryden.
He was much spelled with Eleanor Talbot. Sir G. Buck.

3. To constitute; to measure. [Obs.]
The Saxon heptarchy, when seven kings put together did spell but one
in effect. Fuller.

4. To tell or name in their proper order letters of, as a word; to
write or print in order the letters of, esp. the proper letters; to
form, as words, by correct orthography.
The word "satire" ought to be spelled with i, and not with y. Dryden.

5. To discover by characters or marks; to read with difficulty; --
usually with out; as, to spell out the sense of an author; to spell
out a verse in the Bible.
To spell out a God in the works of creation. South.
To sit spelling and observing divine justice upon every accident.
Milton.

SPELL
Spell, v. i.

1. To form words with letters, esp. with the proper letters, either
orally or in writing.
When what small knowledge was, in them did dwell, And he a god, who
could but read or spell. Dryden.

2. To study by noting characters; to gain knowledge or learn the
meaning of anything, by study. [Obs.]
Where I may sit and rightly spell Of every star that heaven doth
shew, And every herb that sips the dew. Milton.

SPELLABLE
Spell"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being spelt. Carlyle.

SPELLBIND
Spell"bind`, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Spellbound; p. pr. & vb. n.
Spellbinding.]

Defn: To bind or hold by, or as if by, a spell or charm; to
fascinate, esp. by eloquence of speech, as in a political campaign. -
- Spell"bind`er (#), n.

SPELLBOUND
Spell"bound`, a.

Defn: Bound by, or as by, a spell.

SPELLER
Spell"er, n.

1. One who spells.

2. A spelling book. [U. S.]

SPELLFUL
Spell"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding in spells, or charms.
Here, while his eyes the learned leaves peruse, Each spellful mystery
explained he views. Hoole.

SPELLING
Spell"ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who spells; formation of words by letters;
orthography.

SPELLING
Spell"ing, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to spelling. Spelling bee, a spelling match.
[U.S.] -- Spelling book, a book with exercises for teaching children
to spell; a speller.
 -- Spelling match, a contest of skill in spelling words, between two
or more persons.

SPELLKEN
Spell"ken, n.

Defn: A theater. [Slang] Byron.

SPELLWORK
Spell"work`, n.

Defn: Power or effect of magic; that which is wrought by magic;
enchantment.
Like those Peri isles of light That hang by spellwork in the air.
Moore.

SPELT
Spelt,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Spell. Spelled.

SPELT
Spelt, n. Etym: [AS. spelt, fr. L. spelta.] (Bot.)

Defn: A species of grain (Triticum Spelta) much cultivated for food
in Germany and Switzerland; -- called also German wheat.

SPELT
Spelt, n. Etym: [See Spalt.] (Metal.)

Defn: Spelter. [Colloq.]

SPELT
Spelt, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Spell a splinter.]

Defn: To split; to break; to spalt. [Obs.] Mortimer.

SPELTER
Spel"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. spialter, G. & D. spiauter. Cf. Pewter.]
(Metal.)

Defn: Zinc; -- especially so called in commerce and arts.

SPELUNC
Spe*lunc", n. Etym: [L. spelunca cave.]

Defn: A cavern; a cave. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

SPENCE
Spence, n. Etym: [OF. despense, F. depense, buffet, buttery, fr. OF.
despendre to spend, distribute, L. dispendere, dispensum. See
Dispense, Spend.]

1. A place where provisions are kept; a buttery; a larder; a pantry.
Chiefly Brit. dial. [MW10]
In . . . his spence, or "pantry" were hung the carcasses of a sheep
or ewe, and two cows lately slaughtered. Sir W. Scott.
Bluff Harry broke into the spence, And turned the cowls adrift.
Tennyson.

2. The inner apartment of a country house; also, the place where the
family sit and eat. [Scot.] Jamieson.

SPENCER
Spen"cer, n. Etym: [OF. despensier. See Spence, and cf. Dispenser.]

Defn: One who has the care of the spence, or buttery. [Obs.]
Promptorium Parvulorum.

SPENCER
Spen"cer, n. Etym: [From the third Earl Spencer, who first wore it,
or brought it into fashion.]

Defn: A short jacket worn by men and by women. Ld. Lutton.

SPENCER
Spen"cer, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A fore-and-aft sail, abaft the foremast or the mainmast,
hoisted upon a small supplementary mast and set with a gaff and no
boom; a trysail carried at the foremast or mainmast; -- named after
its inventor, Knight Spencer, of England [1802]. Spencer mast, a
small mast just abaft the foremast or mainmast, for hoisting the
spencer. R. H. Dana, Jr.

SPEND
Spend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spent; p. pr. & vb. n. Spending.] Etym:
[AS. spendan (in comp.), fr. L. expendere or dispendere to weigh out,
to expend, dispense. See Pendant, and cf. Dispend, Expend, Spence,
Spencer.]

1. To weigh or lay out; to dispose of; to part with; as, to spend
money for clothing.
Spend thou that in the town. Shak.
Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread Isa. lv. 2.

2. To bestow; to employ; -- often with on or upon.
I . . . am never loath To spend my judgment. Herbert.

3. To consume; to waste; to squander; to exhaust; as, to spend an
estate in gaming or other vices.

4. To pass, as time; to suffer to pass away; as, to spend a day idly;
to spend winter abroad.
We spend our years as a tale that is told. Ps. xc. 9.

5. To exhaust of force or strength; to waste; to wear away; as, the
violence of the waves was spent.
Their bodies spent with long labor and thirst. Knolles.

SPEND
Spend, v. i.

1. To expend money or any other possession; to consume, use, waste,
or part with, anything; as, he who gets easily spends freely.
He spends as a person who knows that he must come to a reckoning.
South.

2. To waste or wear away; to be consumed; to lose force or strength;
to vanish; as, energy spends in the using of it.
The sound spendeth and is dissipated in the open air. Bacon.

3. To be diffused; to spread.
The vines that they use for wine are so often cut, that their sap
spendeth into the grapes. Bacon.

4. (Mining)

Defn: To break ground; to continue working.

SPENDER
Spen"der, n.

Defn: One who spends; esp., one who spends lavishly; a prodigal; a
spendthrift.

SPENDING
Spend"ing, n.

Defn: The act of expending; expenditure. Spending money, money set
apart for extra (not necessary) personal expenses; pocket money.
[Colloq.]

SPENDTHRIFT
Spend"thrift`, n.

Defn: One who spends money profusely or improvidently; a prodigal;
one who lavishes or wastes his estate. Also used figuratively.
A woman who was a generous spendthrift of life. Mrs. R. H. Davis.

SPENDTHRIFT
Spend"thrift, a.

Defn: Prodigal; extravagant; wasteful.

SPENDTHRIFTY
Spend"thrift`y, a.

Defn: Spendthrift; prodigal. [R.]

SPENSERIAN
Spen*se"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the English poet Spenser; -- specifically
applied to the stanza used in his poem "The Faerie Queene."

SPENT
Spent, a.

1. Exhausted; worn out; having lost energy or motive force.
Now thou seest me Spent, overpowered, despairing of success. Addison.
Heaps of spent arrows fall and strew the ground. Dryden.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Exhausted of spawn or sperm; -- said especially of fishes.
Spent ball, a ball shot from a firearm, which reaches an object
without having sufficient force to penetrate it.

SPER; SPERRE
Sper, Sperre, v. t. Etym: [See Spar bar.]

Defn: To shut in; to support; to inclose; to fasten. [Obs.] "To
sperre the gate." Spenser.

SPERABLE
Spe"ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. spearabilis, fr. sperare to hope.]

Defn: Within the range of hpe; proper to be hoped for. [Obs.] Bacon.

SPERABLE
Sper"a*ble, n.

Defn: See Sperable.

SPERAGE
Sper"age, n.

Defn: Asperagus. [Obs.] Sylvester.

SPERATE
Spe"rate, a. Etym: [L. speratus, p. p. of sperare to hope.]

Defn: Hoped for, or to be hoped for. [R.] Bouvier.

SPERE
Spere, v. i. Etym: [AS. spyrian to inquire, properly, to follow the
track; akin to D. speuren, G. spuren, Icel. spyrja. sq. root171. See
Spoor.]

Defn: To search; to pry; to ask; to inquire. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]
[Written also speer, speir.] Jamieson.

SPERE
Spere, n. Etym: [See Sphere.]

Defn: A sphere. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SPERGE
Sperge, n. (Distilling)

Defn: A charge of wash for the still. Knight.

SPERLING
Sper"ling, n. Etym: [See Sparling.] (Zool.)
(a) A smelt; a sparling. [Prov. Eng.]
(b) A young herring. [Local, U.S.]

SPERM
Sperm, n.Etym: [F. sperme, L. sperma, Gr. Spore.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The male fecundating fluid; semen. See Semen. Sperm cell
(Physiol.), one of the cells from which the spermatozoids are
developed.
 -- Sperm morula. (Biol.) Same as Spermosphere.

SPERM
Sperm, n.Etym: [Contr. fr. spermaceti.]

Defn: Spermaceti. Sperm oil, a fatty oil found as a liquid, with
spermaceti, in the head cavities of the sperm whale.
 -- Sperm whale. (Zool.) See in the Vocabulary.

SPERMACETI
Sper`ma*ce"ti, n. Etym: [L. sperma sperm + cetus,gen. ceti, any large
sea animal, a whale, Gr. Sperm, Cetaceous.]

Defn: A white waxy substance obtained from cavities in the head of
the sperm whale, and used making candles, oilments, cosmetics, etc.
It consists essentially of ethereal salts of palmitic acid with ethal
and other hydrocarbon bases. The substance of spermaceti after the
removal of certain impurities is sometimes called cetin. Spermaceti
whale (Zool.), the sperm whale.

SPERMALIST
Sper"mal*ist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: See Spermist.

SPERMAPHORE
Sper"ma*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: That part of the ovary from which the ovules arise; the
placenta.

SPERMARY
Sper"ma*ry, n. (Anat.)

Defn: An organ in which spermatozoa are developed; a sperm gland; a
testicle.

SPERMATHECA
Sper`ma*the"ca, n.; pl. Spermathec?. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A small sac connected with the female reproductive organs of
insects and many other invertebrates, serving to receive and retain
the spermatozoa.

SPERMATIC
Sper*mat"ic, a. Etym: [L. spermaticus, Gr. spermatique. See Sperm.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to semen; as, the spermatic fluid, the
spermatic vessels, etc. Spermatic cord (Anat.), the cord which
suspends the testicle within the scrotum. It is made up of a
connective tissue sheath inclosing the spermatic duct and
accompanying vessels and nerves.

SPERMATICAL
Sper"mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Spermatic.

SPERMATIN
Sper"ma*tin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A substance allied to alkali albumin and to mucin, present in
semen, to which it is said to impart the mucilaginous character.

SPERMATISM
Sper"ma*tism, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The emission of sperm, or semen.

SPERMATIUM
Sper*ma"ti*um, n.; pl. Spermatia. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the motionless spermatozoids in the conceptacles of
certain fungi. J. H. Balfour.

SPERMATIZE
Sper"ma*tize, v. i. Etym: [Gr. Sperm.]

Defn: To yield seed; to emit seed, or sperm. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SPERMATO-; SPERMO-
Sper"ma*to-, Sper"mo-.

Defn: Combining forms from Gr. seed, sperm, semen (of plants or
animals); as, spermatoblast, spermoblast.

SPERMATOBLAST
Sper"ma*to*blast, n.

Defn: Same as Spermoblast.

SPERMATOCYTE
Sper"ma*to*cyte, n. Etym: [Spermato- + Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Spermoblast.

SPERMATOGEMMA
Sper`ma*to*gem"ma, n. Etym: [NL. See Spermato-, and Gemma.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Spermosphere.

SPERMATOGENESIS
Sper`ma*to*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Spermato- + genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: The development of the spermatozoids.

SPERMATOGENETIC
Sper`ma*to*ge*net"ic, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Relating to, or connected with, spermatogenesis; as,
spermatogenetic function.

SPERMATOGENOUS
Sper`ma*tog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Spermato- + -genous.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Sperm-producing.

SPERMATOGONIUM
Sper`ma*to*go"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A primitive seminal cell, occuring in masses in the seminal
tubules. It divides into a mass (spermosphere) of small cells
(spermoblast), which in turn give rise to spermatozoids.

SPERMATOID
Sper"ma*toid, a. Etym: [Spermato- + -oid.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Spermlike; resembling sperm, or semen.

SPERMATOON; SPERMATOOEN
Sper`ma*to"on, n.; pl. Spermatoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A spermoblast.
 -- Sper`ma*to"al, a. Owen.

SPERMATOPHORE
Sper"ma*to*phore, n. Etym: [Spermato- + Gr.

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Spermospore.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A capsule or pocket inclosing a number of spermatozoa. They are
present in many annelids, brachiopods, mollusks, and crustaceans. In
cephalopods the structure of the capsule is very complex.

SPERMATOPHOROUS
Sper`ma*toph"o*rous, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Producing seed, or sperm; seminiferous; as, the so-called
spermatophorous cells.

SPERMATOPHYTA
Sper`ma*toph"y*ta, n. pl. [NL.; spermato- + Gr.  plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A phylum embracing the highest plants, or those that produce
seeds; the  seed plants, or flowering plants. They form the most
numerous group, including over 120,000 species. In general, the group
is characterized by the marked development of the sporophyte, with
great differentiation of its parts (root, stem, leaves, flowers,
etc.); by the extreme reduction of the gametophyte; and by the
development of seeds. All the Spermatophyta are heterosporous;
fertilization of the egg cell is either through a pollen tube emitted
by the microspore or (in a few gymnosperms) by spermatozoids. The
phrase "flowering plants" is less distinctive than "seed plants,"
since the conifers, grasses, sedges, oaks, etc., do not produce
flowers in the popular sense. For this reason the terms Anthrophyta,
Ph?nogamia, and Panerogamia have been superseded as names of the
phylum by Spermatophyta.

SPERMATOPHYTE
Sper"ma*to"phyte`, n.

Defn: Any plant of the phylum Spermatophyta. -- Sper`ma*to*phyt"ic
(#), a.

SPERMATORRHEA; SPERMATORRHOEA
Sper`ma*tor*rhe"a, Sper`ma*tor*rhoe"a, (, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
(Med.)

Defn: Abnormally frequent involuntary emission of the semen without
copulation.

SPERMATOSPORE
Sper"ma*to*spore, n.

Defn: Same as Spermospore.

SPERMATOZOID
Sper`ma*to*zo"id, n. Etym: [Spermatozoon + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The male germ cell in animals and plants, the essential element
in fertilization; a microscopic animalcule-like particle, usually
provided with one or more cilia by which it is capable of active
motion. In animals, the familiar type is that of a small, more or
less ovoid head, with a delicate threadlike cilium, or tail. Called
also spermatozoon. In plants the more usual term is antherozoid.

SPERMATOZOOID
Sper`ma*to*zo"oid n. (Biol.)

Defn: A spermatozoid.

SPERMATOZOON; SPERMATOZOOEN
Sper`ma*to*zo"on, n.; pl. Spermatozoa. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Spermatozoid.

SPERMIC
Sper"mic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sperm, or semen.

SPERMIDIUM
Sper*mid"i*um, n.; pl. Spermidia. Etym: [Nl., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An achenium.

SPERMISM
Sperm"ism, n. [Gr.  seed, sperm + -ism.] (Biol.)

Defn: The theory, formerly held by many, that the sperm or
spermatozoon contains the germ of the future embryo; animalculism.

SPERMIST
Sperm"ist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: A believer in the doctrine, formerly current, of encasement in
the male (see Encasement), in which the seminal thread, or
spermatozoid, was considered as the real animal germ, the head being
the true animal head and the tail the body.

SPERMOBLAST
Sper"mo*blast, n. Etym: [Spermo- + -blast.] (Physiol.)

Defn: One of the cells formed by the diivision of the spermospore,
each of which is destined to become a spermatozoid; a spermatocyte; a
spermatoblast.

SPERMOCOCCUS
Sper`mo*coc"cus, n. Etym: [NL. See Spermo-, and Coccus.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The nucleus of the sperm cell.

SPERMODERM
Sper"mo*derm, n. Etym: [Spermo- + derm: cf. F. spermoderme.] (Bot.)

Defn: The covering of a seed; -- sometimes limited to the outer coat
or testa. Lindley.

SPERMOGONIUM
Sper`mo*go"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL.; spermo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A conceptacle of certain lichens, which contains spermatia.

SPERMOLOGIST
Sper*mol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who treats of, or collects, seeds. Bailey.

SPERMOPHILE
Sper"mo*phile, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any ground squirrel of the genus Spermophilus; gopher. See
Illust. under Gopher.

SPERMOPHORE
Sper"mo*phore, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A spermatophore.

SPERMOPHYTA
Sper*moph"y*ta, n. pl. Etym: [Nl., from Gr.

Defn: Plants which produce seed; ph?nogamia. These plants constitute
the highest grand division of the vegetable kingdom.

SPERMOPHYTE
Sper"mo*phyte, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant which produces true seeds; -- a term recently
proposed to replace ph?nogam.

SPERMOPHYTIC
Sper`mo*phyt"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Capable of producing seeds; ph?nogamic.

SPERMOPLASMA
Sper`mo*plas"ma, n. Etym: [NL. See Spermo-, and Plasma.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The protoplasm of the sperm cell. Haeckel.

SPERMOSPHERE
Sper"mo*sphere, n. Etym: [Spermo- + sphere.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A mass or ball of cells formed by the repeated division of a
male germinal cell (spermospore), each constituent cell (spermoblast)
of which is converted into a spermatozoid; a spermatogemma.

SPERMOSPORE
Sper"mo*spore, n. Etym: [Spermo- + spore.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The male germinal or seminal cell, from the breaking up of
which the spermoblasts are formed and ultimately the spermatozoids; a
spermatospore. Balfour.

SPERMULE
Sper"mule, n. Etym: [Dim. fr. sperm.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A sperm cell. Haeckel.

SPERM WHALE
Sperm" whale`. (Zool.)

Defn: A very large toothed whale (Physeter macrocephalus), having a
head of enormous size. The upper jaw is destitute of teeth. In the
upper part of the head, above the skull, there is a large cavity, or
case, filled with oil and spermaceti. This whale sometimes grows to
the length of more than eighty feet. It is found in the warmer parts
of all the oceans. Called also cachalot, and spermaceti whale. Pygmy
sperm whale (Zool.), a small whale (Kogia breviceps), seldom twenty
feet long, native of tropical seas, but occasionally found on the
American coast. Called also snub-nosed cachalot.
 -- Sperm-whale porpoise (Zool.), a toothed cetacean (Hyperoodon
bidens), found on both sides of the Atlantic and valued for its oil.
The adult becomes about twenty-five feet long, and its head is very
large and thick. Called also bottle-nosed whale.

SPERRYLITE
Sper"ry*lite, n.Etym: [Named after F. L. Sperry, who discovered it.]
(Min.)

Defn: An arsenide of platinum occuring in grains and minute isometric
crystals of tin-white color. It is found near Sudbury, Ontario
Canada, and is the only known compound of platinum occuring in
nature.

SPERSE
Sperse, v. t.

Defn: To disperse. [Obs.] Spenser.

SPESSARTITE
Spes"sart*ite, n.Etym: [From Spessart, in Germany.] (Min.)

Defn: A manganesian variety of garnet.

SPET
Spet, v. t. Etym: [AS. sp. See Spit.]

Defn: To spit; to throw out. [Obs.]

SPET
Spet, n.

Defn: Spittle. [Obs.]

SPETCHES
Spetch"es, n. pl.

Defn: Parings and refuse of hides, skins, etc., from which glue is
made.

SPEW
Spew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spewed; p. pr.& vb. n. Spewing.] Etym: [OE.
spewen, speowen, AS. spiwan;n to D. spuwen to spit. OS & OHG. spiwan,
G. speien, Icel. sp to spew, Sw. spy, Dan. spye, Goth. spiewan, th.
spjauti, L. spuere to split, Gr. shtiv, shthiv. Cf. Pyke, Spit.]
[Written also spue.]

1. To eject from the stomach; to vomit.

2. To cast forth with abhorrence or disgust; to eject.
Because thou art lukewarm, and neither hot nor cold, I will spew thee
out of my mouth. Rev. ii. 16.

SPEW
Spew, v. i.

1. To vomit. Chaucer.

2. To eject seed, as wet land swollen with frost.

SPEW
Spew, n.

Defn: That which is vomited; vomit.

SPEWER
Spew"er, n.

Defn: One who spews.

SPEWINESS
Spew"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being spewy.

SPEWY
Spew"y, a.

Defn: Wet; soggy; inclined to spew.

SPHACEL
Sphac"el, n. Etym: [Gr. sphacele.] (Med.)

Defn: Gangrene.

SPHACELATE
Sphac"e*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sphacelated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sphacelating.] Etym: [NL. sphacelare, sphacelatum, mortify: cf. F.
sphaceler. See Sphacelus.] (Med.)

Defn: To die, decay, or become gangrenous, as flesh or bone; to
mortify.

SPHACELATE
Sphac"e*late, v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To affect with gangrene.

SPHACELATE; SPHACELATED
Sphac"e*late, Sphac"e*la`ted, a. (Med.)

Defn: Affected with gangrene; mortified.

SPHACELATION
Sphac`e*la"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: The process of becoming or making gangrenous; mortification.

SPHACELUS
Sphac"e*lus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Gangrenous part; gangrene; slough.

SPHAERENCHYMA
Sph?*ren"chy*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -enchyma as in parenchima.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Vegetable tissue composed of thin-walled rounded cells, -- a
modification of parenchyma.

SPHAERIDIUM
Sph?*rid"i*um, n.; pl. Sph?ridia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A peculiar sense organ found upon the exterior of most kinds of
sea urchins, and consisting of an oval or sherical head surmounting a
short pedicel. It is generally supposed to be an olfactory organ.

SPHAEROSPORE
Sph?"ro*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the nonsexual spores found in red alg?; a tetraspore.

SPHAERULITE
Sph?r"u*lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Same as Spherulite.

SPHAGNICOLOUS
Sphag*nic"o*lous, a. Etym: [Sphagnum + L. colere to inhabit.] (Bot.)

Defn: Growing in moss of the genus Sphagnum.

SPHAGNOUS
Sphag"nous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Pertaining to moss of the genus Sphagnum, or bog moss;
abounding in peat or bog moss.

SPHAGNUM
Sphag"num, n. Etym: [NL., fr/ Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of mosses having white leaves slightly tinged with red
or green and found growing in marshy places; bog moss; peat moss.

SPHALERITE
Sphal"er*ite, n. Etym: [Gr. Blende.] (Min.)

Defn: Zinc sulphide; -- called also blende, black-jack, false galena,
etc. See Blende (a).

SPHENE
Sphene, n. Etym: [F. sphene, fr. Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral found usually in thin, wedge-shaped crystals of a
yellow or green to black color. It is a silicate of titanium and
calcium; titanite.

SPHENETHMOID
Sphe*neth"moid, a. Etym: [Sphenoid + ethmoid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to both the sphenoidal and the ethmoidal
regions of the skull, or the sphenethmoid bone; sphenethmoidal.
Sphenethmoid bone (Anat.), a bone of the skull which surrounds the
anterior end of the brain in many amphibia; the girdle bone.

SPHENETHMOID
Sphe*neth"moid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The sphenethmoid bone.

SPHENETHMOIDAL
Sphe`neth*moid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Relating to the sphenoethmoid bone; sphenoethmoid.

SPHENISCAN
Sphe*nis"can, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of penguin.

SPHENO-
Sphe"no-.

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,
or relation to, the sphenoid bone; as in sphenomaxillary,
sphenopalatine.

SPHENODON
Sphe"no*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Hatteria.

SPHENOETHMOIDAL
Sphe"no*eth*moid`al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Sphenethmoid.

SPHENOGRAM
Sphe"no*gram, n. Etym: [Gr. -gram.]

Defn: A cuneiform, or arrow-headed, character.

SPHENOGRAPHER
Sphe*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One skilled in sphenography; a sphenographist.

SPHENOGRAPHIC
Sphe`no*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sphenography.

SPHENOGRAPHIST
Sphe*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A sphenographer.

SPHENOGRAPHY
Sphe*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The art of writing in cuneiform characters, or of deciphering
inscriptions made in such characters.

SPHENOID
Sphe"noid, a. Etym: [Gr. sphenoide.]

1. Wedge-shaped; as, a sphenoid crystal.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sphenoid bone. Sphenoid bone (Anat.),
an irregularly shaped bone in front of the occipital in the base of
the skull of the higher vertebrates. It is composed of several fetal
bones which become united the adult. See Alisphenoid, Basisphenoid,
Orbitosphenoid, Presphenoid.

SPHENOID
Sphe"noid, n.

1. (Crystallog.)

Defn: A wedge-shaped crystal bounded by four equal isosceles
triangles. It is the hemihedral form of a square pyramid.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The sphenoid bone.

SPHENOIDAL
Sphe*noid"al, a.

1. Sphenoid.

2. (Crystalloq.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a sphenoid.

SPHENOTIC
Sphe*not"ic, a. Etym: [Spheno- + (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the sphenotic bone.
Sphenotic bone (Anat.), a bone on the anterior side of the auditory
capsule of many fishes, and connected with, or adjoining, the
sphenoid bone.

SPHENOTIC
Sphe*not"ic, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The sphenotic bone.

SPHERAL
Spher"al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a sphere or the spheres.

2. Rounded like a sphere; sphere-shaped; hence, symmetrical;
complete; perfect.

SPHERE
Sphere, n. Etym: [OE. spere, OF. espere, F. sphere, L. sphaera,. Gr.

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A body or space contained under a single surface, which in
every part is equally distant from a point within called its center.

2. Hence, any globe or globular body, especially a celestial one, as
the sun, a planet, or the earth.
Of celestial bodies, first the sun, A mighty sphere, he framed.
Milton.

3. (Astron.)
(a) The apparent surface of the heavens, which is assumed to be
spherical and everywhere equally distant, in which the heavenly
bodies appear to have their places, and on which the various
astronomical circles, as of right ascension and declination, the
equator, ecliptic, etc., are conceived to be drawn; an ideal
geometrical sphere, with the astronomical and geographical circles in
their proper positions on it.
(b) In ancient astronomy, one of the concentric and eccentric
revolving spherical transparent shells in which the stars, sun,
planets, and moon were supposed to be set, and by which they were
carried, in such a manner as to produce their apparent motions.

4. (Logic)

Defn: The extension of a general conception, or the totality of the
individuals or species to which it may be applied.

5. Circuit or range of action, knowledge, or influence; compass;
province; employment; place of existence.
To be called into a huge sphere, and not to be seen to move in 't.
Shak.
Taking her out of the ordinary relations with humanity, and inclosing
her in a sphere by herself. Hawthorne.
Each in his hidden sphere of joy or woe Our hermit spirits dwell.
Keble.

6. Rank; order of society; social positions.

7. An orbit, as of a star; a socket. [R.] Shak. Armillary sphere,
Crystalline sphere, Oblique sphere,. See under Armillary,
Crystalline,.
 -- Doctrine of the sphere, applications of the principles of
spherical trigonometry to the properties and relations of the circles
of the sphere, and the problems connected with them, in astronomy and
geography, as to the latitudes and longitudes, distance and bearing,
of places on the earth, and the right ascension and declination,
altitude and azimuth, rising and setting, etc., of the heavenly
bodies; spherical geometry.
 -- Music of the spheres. See under Music.

Syn.
 -- Globe; orb; circle. See Globe.

SPHERE
Sphere, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sphered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sphering.]

1. To place in a sphere, or among the spheres; to insphere.
The glorious planet Sol In noble eminence enthroned and sphered
Amidst the other. Shak.

2. To form into roundness; to make spherical, or spheral; to perfect.
Tennyson.

SPHERICAL; SPHERIC
Spher"ic*al, Spher"ic, a. Etym: [L. sphaericus, Gr. spherique.]

1. Having the form of a sphere; like a sphere; globular; orbicular;
as, a spherical body.

2. Of or pertaining to a sphere.

3. Of or pertaining to the heavenly orbs, or to the sphere or spheres
in which, according to ancient astronomy and astrology, they were
set.
Knaves, thieves, and treachers by spherical predominance. Shak.
Though the stars were suns, and overburned Their spheric limitations.
Mrs. Browning.
Spherical angle, Spherical coordinate, Spherical excess, etc. See
under Angle, Coordinate, etc.
 -- Spherical geometry, that branch of geometry which treats of
spherical magnitudes; the doctrine of the sphere, especially of the
circles described on its surface.
 -- Spherical harmonic analysis. See under Harmonic, a.
 -- Spherical lune,portion of the surface of a sphere included
between two great semicircles having a common diameter.
 -- Spherical opening, the magnitude of a solid angle. It is measured
by the portion within the solid angle of the surface of any sphere
whose center is the angular point.
 -- Spherical polygon,portion of the surface of a sphere bounded by
the arcs of three or more great circles.
 -- Spherical projection, the projection of the circles of the sphere
upon a plane. See Projection.
 -- Spherical sector. See under Sector.
 -- Spherical segment, the segment of a sphere. See under Segment.
 -- Spherical triangle,re on the surface of a sphere, bounded by the
arcs of three great circles which intersect each other.
 -- Spherical trigonometry. See Trigonometry.
 -- Spher"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Spher"ic*al*ness, n.

SPHERICITY
Sphe*ric"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sphericite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being spherial; roundness; as, the
sphericity of the planets, or of a drop of water.

SPHERICLE
Spher"i*cle, n.

Defn: A small sphere.

SPHERICS
Spher"ics, n. (Math.)

Defn: The doctrine of the sphere; the science of the properties and
relations of the circles, figures, and other magnitudes of a sphere,
produced by planes intersecting it; spherical geometry and
trigonometry.

SPHEROBACTERIA
Sphe`ro*bac*te"ri*a, n. pl.; sing. Spherobacterium (. Etym: [NL. See
Sphere, and Bacterium.] (Biol.)

Defn: See the Note under Microbacteria.

SPHEROCONIC
Sphe`ro*con"ic, n. (Geom.)

Defn: A nonplane curve formed by the intersection of the surface of
an oblique cone with the surface of a sphere whose center is at the
vertex of the cone.

SPHEROGRAPH
Spher"o*graph, n. Etym: [Sphere + -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for facilitating the practical use of spherics in
navigation and astronomy, being constructed of two cardboards
containing various circles, and turning upon each other in such a
manner that any possible spherical triangle may be readily found, and
the measures of the parts read off by inspection.

SPHEROID
Sphe"roid, n. Etym: [L. spheroides ball-like, spherical, Gr.
spheroide.]

Defn: A body or figure approaching to a sphere, but not perfectly
spherical; esp., a solid generated by the revolution of an ellipse
about one of its axes. Oblate spheroid, Prolate spheroid. See Oblate,
Prolate, and Ellipsoid.

SPHEROIDAL
Sphe*roid"al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. spheroidal.]

Defn: Having the form of a spheroid.
 -- Sphe*roid"al*ly, adv. Spheroidal state (Physics.), the state of a
liquid, as water, when, on being thrown on a surface of highly heated
metal, it rolls about in spheroidal drops or masses, at a temperature
several degrees below ebullition, and without actual contact with the
heated surface, -- a phenomenon due to the repulsive force of heat,
the intervention of a cushion of nonconducting vapor, and the cooling
effect of evaporation.

SPHEROIDIC; SPHEROIDICAL
Sphe*roid"ic, Sphe*roid"ic*al, a.

Defn: See Spheroidal. Cheyne.

SPHEROIDICITY; SPHEROIDITY
Sphe`roi*dic"i*ty, Sphe*roid"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being spheroidal.

SPHEROMERE
Sphe"ro*mere, n. Etym: [Sphere + -mere.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of the several symmetrical segments arranged around the
central axis and composing the body of a radiate anmal.

SPHEROMETER
Sphe*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Sphere + -meter: cf. F. spherometre.]
(Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the curvature of spherical surface,
as of lenses for telescope, etc.

SPHEROSIDERITE
Spher`o*sid"er*ite, n. Etym: [Sphere + siderite.] (Min.)

Defn: Siderite occuring in spheroidal masses.

SPHEROSOME
Sphe"ro*some, n. Etym: [Sphere + -some body.] (Zool.)

Defn: The body wall of any radiate animal.

SPHERULATE
Spher"u*late, a.

Defn: Covered or set with spherules; having one or more rows of
spherules, or minute tubercles.

SPHERULE
Spher"ule, n. Etym: [L. spherula: cf. F. spherule.]

Defn: A little sphere or spherical body; as, quicksilver, when poured
upon a plane, divides itself into a great number of minute spherules.

SPHERULITE
Spher"u*lite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. spherulite.] (Min.)

Defn: A minute spherical crystalline body having a radiated
structure, observed in some vitreous volcanic rocks, as obsidian and
pearlstone.

SPHERULITIC
Spher`u*lit"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a spherulite; characterized by the presence
of spherulites.

SPHERY
Spher"y, a.

1. Round; spherical; starlike. [R.] "Hermia's sphery eyne." Shak.

2. Of or pertaining to the spheres. [R.]
She can teach ye how to climb Higher than the sphery chime. Milton.

SPHEX
Sphex, n.Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of sand wasps of the genus Sphex
and allied genera. These wasps have the abdomen attached to the
thorax by a slender pedicel. See Illust. of Sand wasp, under Sand.
Sphex fly (Zool.), any one of numerous species of small dipterous
flies of the genus Conops and allied genera. The form of the body is
similar to that of a sphex.

SPHIGMOMETER
Sphig*mom"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Sphygmometer.

SPHINCTER
Sphinc"ter, n. Etym: [NL., fr. (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which surrounds, and by its contraction tends to
close, a natural opening; as, the sphincter of the bladder.

SPHINCTER
Sphinc"ter, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sphincter; as, a sphincter
muscle.

SPHINGID
Sphin"gid, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A sphinx.

SPHINGID
Sphin"gid, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sphinx, or the family Sphingid?.

SPHINX
Sphinx, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. sfi`gx, usually derived from sfi`ggein
to bind tight or together, as if the Throttler.]

1.
(a) In Egyptian art, an image of granite or porphyry, having a human
head, or the head of a ram or of a hawk, upon the wingless body of a
lion.
The awful ruins of the days of old . . . Or jasper tomb, or mutilated
sphinx. Shelley.

(b) On Greek art and mythology, a she-monster, usually represented as
having the winged body of a lion, and the face and breast of a young
woman.

Note: The most famous Grecian sphinx, that of Thebes in Boeotia, is
said to have proposed a riddle to the Thebans, and killed those who
were unable to guess it. The enigma was solved by "Subtle as sphinx."
Shak.

2. Hence: A person of enigmatical character and purposes, especially
in politics and diplomacy.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large moths of the family
Sphingid?; -- called also hawk moth.

Note: The larva is a stout naked caterpillar which, when at rest,
often assumes a position suggesting the Egyptian sphinx, whence the
name.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: The Guinea, or sphinx, baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx). Sphinx
baboon (Zool.), a large West African baboon (Cynocephalus sphinx),
often kept in menageries.
 -- Sphinx moth. (Zool.) Same as Sphinx, 3.

SPHRAGIDE
Sphrag"ide, n.Etym: [L. sphragis, -idis, Lemnian earth, fr. Gr.
(Min.)

Defn: Lemnian earth.

SPHRAGISTICS
Sphra*gis"tics, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The science of seals, their history, age, distinctions, etc.,
esp. as verifying the age and genuiness of documents.

SPHRIGOSIS
Sphri*go"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A condition of vegetation in which there is too abundant growth
of the stem and leaves, accompanied by deficiency of flowers and
fruit.

SPHYGMIC
Sphyg"mic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the pulse.

SPHYGMOGRAM
Sphyg"mo*gram, n. Etym: [Gr. -gram.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A tracing, called a pulse tracing, consisting of a series of
curves corresponding with the beats of the heart, obtained by the
application of the sphygmograph.

SPHYGMOGRAPH
Sphyg"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument which, when applied over an artery, indicates
graphically the movements or character of the pulse. See Sphygmogram.

SPHYGMOGRAPHIC
Sphyg`mo*graph"ic, a. (Phusiol.)

Defn: Relating to, or produced by, a sphygmograph; as, a
sphygmographic tracing.

SPHYGMOMETER
Sphyg*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the strength of the pulse beat; a
sphygmograph.

SPHYGMOPHONE
Sphyg"mo*phone, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: An electrical instrument for determining by the ear the rhythm
of the pulse of a person at a distance.

SPHYGMOSCOPE
Sphyg"mo*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Sphygmograph.

SPHYRAENOID
Sphy*r?"noid, a.Etym: [L. sphyraena a kind of sea fish (Gr.
sfy`raina) + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Sphyr?nid?, a family of marine fishes
including the barracudas.

SPIAL
Spi"al, n.

Defn: A spy; a scout. [Obs.] Bacon.

SPICA
Spi"ca, n.; pl. Spic?. Etym: [L., an ear, as of corn.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of bandage passing, by successive turns and crosses,
from an extremity to the trunk; -- so called from its resemblance to
a spike of a barley.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A star of the first magnitude situated in the constellation
Virgo.

SPICATE; SPICATED
Spi"cate, Spi"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. spicatus, p. p. of spicare furnish
with spikes, or ears, fr. spica a spike, or ear.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a spike, or ear; arranged in a spike or
spikes. Lee.

SPICCATO
Spic*ca"to, a. Etym: [It., p. p. of spicare to detach, to separate.]
(Mus.)

Defn: Detached; separated; -- a term indicating that every note is to
be performed in a distinct and pointed manner.

SPICE
Spice, n. Etym: [OE. spice, spece, spice, species, OF. espice,
espece, F. epice spice, espece species, fr. L. species particular
sort or kind, a species, a sight, appearance, show, LL., spices,
drugs, etc., of the same sort, fr. L. specere to look. See Spy, and
cf. Species.]

1. Species; kind. [Obs.]
The spices of penance ben three. Chaucer.
Abstain you from all evil spice. Wyclif (1. Thess,v. 22).
Justice, although it be but one entire virtue, yet is described in
two kinds of spices. The one is named justice distributive, the other
is called commutative. Sir T. Elyot.

2. A vegetable production of many kinds, fragrant or aromatic and
pungent to the taste, as pepper, cinnamon, nutmeg, mace, allspice,
ginger, cloves, etc., which are used in cookery and to flavor sauces,
pickles, etc.
Hast thou aught in thy purse [bag] any hot spices Piers Plowman.

3. Figuratively, that which enriches or alters the quality of a thing
in a small degree, as spice alters the taste of food; that which
gives zest or pungency; a slight flavoring; a relish; hence, a small
quantity or admixture; a sprinkling; as, a spice of mischief.
So much of the will, with a spice of the willful. Coleridge.

SPICE
Spice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spiced; p. p. & vb. n. Spicing.]

1. To season with spice, or as with spice; to mix aromatic or pungent
substances with; to flavor; to season; as, to spice wine; to spice
one's words with wit.
She 'll receive thee, but will spice thy bread With flowery poisons.
Chapman.

2. To fill or impregnate with the odor of spices.
In the spiced Indian air, by night. Shak.

3. To render nice or dainty; hence, to render scrupulous. [Obs.] "A
spiced conscience." Chaucer.

SPICEBUSH
Spice"bush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Spicewood.

SPICENUT
Spice"nut`.

Defn: A small crisp cake, highly spiced.

SPICER
Spi"cer, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. espicier, F. epicier.]

1. One who seasons with spice.

2. One who deals in spice. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

SPICERY
Spi"cer*y, n. Etym: [OF. espicerie, F. epicerie.]

1. Spices, in general. Chaucer.

2. A repository of spices. Addison.

SPICEWOOD
Spice"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An American shrub (Lindera Benzoin), the bark of which has a
spicy taste and odor; -- called also Benjamin, wild allspice, and
fever bush.

SPICIFEROUS
Spi*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. spicifer bearing spikes, or ears; spica
ear + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Bearing ears, or spikes; spicate. [Obs.] Bailey.

SPICIFORM
Spi"ci*form, a. Etym: [L. spica a spike, ear + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Spike-shaped. Gray.

SPICILY
Spi"ci*ly, adv.

Defn: In a spicy manner.

SPICINESS
Spi"ci*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being spicy.

SPICK
Spick, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. spik. See Spike a nail.]

Defn: A spike or nail. [Prov. Eng.] Spick and span, quite new; that
is, as new as a spike or nail just made and a chip just split; brand-
new; as, a spick and span novelty. See Span-new. Howell.

SPICKNEL
Spick"nel, n. Etym: [Contr. from spike nail a large, long nail; -- so
called in allusion to the shape of its capillary leaves.] (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous herb (Meum Athamanticum) having finely divided
leaves, common in Europe; -- called also baldmoney, mew, and
bearwort. [Written also spignel.]

SPICOSE
Spi*cose", a. Etym: [L. spica a spike, or ear.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having spikes, or ears, like corn spikes.

SPICOSITY
Spi*cos"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state of having, or being full of, ears like corn. [R.]
Bailey.

SPICOUS
Spi"cous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: See Spicose.

SPICULA
Spic"u*la, n.; pl. Spicul?. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. spica a spike,
ear.] (Bot.)
(a) A little spike; a spikelet.
(b) A pointed fleshy appendage.

SPICULAR
Spic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. spiculum a dart: cf. F. spiculaire.]

Defn: Resembling a dart; having sharp points.

SPICULATE
Spic"u*late, a. Etym: [L. spiculatus, p. p. of spiculare to sharpen,
to point, fr. spiculum a dart.]

1. Covered with, or having, spicules.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Covered with minute spicul?, or pointed fleshy appendages;
divided into small spikelets.

SPICULATE
Spic"u*late, v. t.

Defn: To sharpen to a point. [R.] "With spiculated paling." Mason.

SPICULE
Spic"ule, n. Etym: [L. spiculum a little point, a dart.]

1. A minute, slender granule, or point.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Spicula.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any small calcareous or siliceous body found in the tissues of
various invertebrate animals, especially in sponges and in most
Alcyonaria.

Note: Spicules vary exceedingly in size and shape, and some of those
found in siliceous sponges are very complex in structure and elegant
in form. They are of great use in classification.
Description of the Illustration:
a Acerate; b Tricurvate, or Bowshaped; c d Hamate; e Broomshaped; f
Scepterellate; g Spinispirulate; h Inequi-anchorate; i Sexradiate; j
A Trichite Sheaf; k Six-rayed Capitate; l Rosette of Esperia; m Equi-
anchorate.

SPICULIFORM
Spi*cu"li*form, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the shape of a spicule.

SPICULIGENOUS
Spic`u*lig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. spiculum + -genous.] (Zool.)

Defn: Producing or containing spicules.

SPICULISPONGIAE
Spic`u*li*spon"gi*?, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of sponges including those which have independent
siliceous spicules.

SPICULUM
Spic"u*lum, n.; pl. Spicula. Etym: [L., a little point.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Spicule.

SPICY
Spi"cy, a. [Compar. Spicier; superl. Spiciest.] Etym: [From Spice.]

1. Flavored with, or containing, spice or spices; fragrant; aromatic;
as, spicy breezes. "The spicy nut-brown ale." Milton.
Led by new stars, and borne by spicy gales. Pope.

2. Producing, or abounding with, spices.
In hot Ceylon spicy forests grew. Dryden.

3. Fig.: Piquant; racy; as, a spicy debate.

Syn.
 -- Aromatic; fragrant; smart; pungent; pointed; keen. See Racy.

SPIDER
Spi"der, n.Etym: [OE. spi, fr. AS. spinnan to spin; -- so named from
spinning its web; cf. D. spin a spider, G. spinne, Sw. spindel. Seee
Spin.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of arachnids comprising the order
Araneina. Spiders have the mandibles converted into poison fangs, or
falcers. The abdomen is large and not segmented, with two or three
pairs of spinnerets near the end, by means of which they spin threads
of silk to form cocoons, or nests, to protect their eggs and young.
Many species spin also complex webs to entrap the insects upon which
they prey. The eyes are usually eight in number (rarely six), and are
situated on the back of the cephalothorax. See Illust. under
Araneina.

Note: Spiders are divided into two principal groups: the Dipneumona,
having two lungs: and the Tetrapneumona, having four lungs. See
Mygale. The former group includes several tribes; as, the jumping
spiders (see Saltigrad?), the wolf spiders, or Citigrad? (see under
Wolf), the crab spiders, or Laterigrad? (see under Crab), the garden,
or geometric, spiders, or Orbitell? (see under Geometrical, and
Garden), and others. See Bird spider, under Bird, Grass spider, under
Grass, House spider, under House, Silk spider, under Silk.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of various other arachnids resembling the true spiders,
especially certain mites, as the red spider (see under Red).

3. An iron pan with a long handle, used as a kitchen utensil in
frying food. Originally, it had long legs, and was used over coals on
the hearth.

4. A trevet to support pans or pots over a fire.

5. (Mach.)

Defn: A skeleton, or frame, having radiating arms or members, often
connected by crosspieces; as, a casting forming the hub and spokes to
which the rim of a fly wheel or large gear is bolted; the body of a
piston head; a frame for strengthening a core or mold for a casting,
etc. Spider ant. (Zool.) Same as Solitary ant, under Solitary.
 -- Spider crab (Zool.), any one of numerous species of maioid crabs
having a more or less triangular body and ten long legs. Some of the
species grow to great size, as the great Japanese spider crab
(Macrocheira Kempferi), measuring sometimes more than fifteen feet
across the legs when they are extended.
 -- Spider fly (Zool.), any one of numerous species of parasitic
dipterous insects of the family Hippoboscid?. They are mostly
destitute of wings, and live among the feathers of birds and the hair
of bats. Called also bird tick, and bat tick.
 -- Spider hunter (Zool.), any one of several species of East Indian
sunbirds of the genus Arachnothera.
 -- Spider lines, filaments of a spider's web crossing the field of
vision in optical instruments; -- used for determining the exact
position of objects and making delicate measurements. Fine wires,
silk fibers, or lines on glass similarly placed, are called spider
lines.
 -- Spider mite. (Zool.) (a) Any one of several species of parasitic
mites of the genus Argas and allied genera. See Argas. (b) Any one of
numerous small mites injurious to plants.
 -- Spider monkey (Zool.), any one of numerous species of South
American monkeys of the genus Ateles, having very long legs and a
long prehensile tail.
 -- Spider orchis (Bot.), a European orchidaceous plant (Ophrys
aranifera), having flowers which resemble spiders.
 -- Spider shell (Zool.), any shell of the genus Pteroceras. See
Pteroceras.

SPIDERED
Spi"dered, a.

Defn: Infested by spiders; cobwebbed. Wolcott.

SPIDERLIKE
Spi"der*like`, a.

Defn: Like a spider. Shak.

SPIDER STITCH
Spi"der stitch.

Defn: A stitch in lace making used to fill in open spaces with
threads resembling a cobweb.

SPIDER WEB; SPIDER'S WEB
Spi"der web", or Spi"der's web". (Zool.)

Defn: The silken web which is formed by most kinds of spiders,
particularly the web spun to entrap their prey. See Geometric spider,
Triangle spider, under Geometric, and Triangle.

SPIDERWORT
Spi"der*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An American endogenous plant (Tradescantia Virginica), with
long linear leaves and ephemeral blue flowers. The name is sometimes
extended to other species of the same genus.

SPIED
Spied,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Spy.

SPIEGELEISEN
Spie"gel*ei`sen, n. Etym: [G. spiegel mirror + eisen iron.]

Defn: See Spiegel iron.

SPIEGEL IRON
Spie"gel i`ron. Etym: [G. spiegel mirror + E. iron.] (Metal.)

Defn: A fusible white cast iron containing a large amount of carbon
(from three and a half to six per cent) and some manganese. When the
manganese reaches twenty-five per cent and upwards it has a granular
structure, and constitutes the alloy ferro manganese, largely used in
the manufacture of Bessemer steel. Called also specular pig iron,
spiegel, and spiegeleisen.

SPIGHT
Spight, n. & v.

Defn: Spite. [Obs.] Spenser.

SPIGHT
Spight, n.

Defn: A woodpecker. See Speight. [Obs.]

SPIGNEL
Spig"nel, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Spickenel.

SPIGNET
Spig"net, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. spikenard.] (Bot.)

Defn: An aromatic plant of America. See Spikenard.

SPIGOT
Spig"ot, n. Etym: [From spick,or spike; cf. Ir. & Gael. spiocaid a
spigot, Ir. spice a spike. See Spike.]

Defn: A pin or peg used to stop the vent in a cask; also, the plug of
a faucet or cock. Spigot and faucet joint, a joint for uniting pipes,
formed by the insertion of the end of one pipe, or pipe fitting, into
a socket at the end of another.

SPIGURNEL
Spi*gur"nel, n. (Eng. Law)

Defn: Formerly the title of the sealer of writs in chancery. Mozley &
W.

SPIKE
Spike, n. Etym: [Akin to LG. spiker, spieker, a large nail, D.
spijker, Sw. spik, Dan. spiger, Icel. spik; all perhaps from L. spica
a point, an ear of grain; but in the sense of nail more likely akin
to E. spoke of a wheel. Cf. Spine.]

1. A sort of very large nail; also, a piece of pointed iron set with
points upward or outward.

2. Anything resembling such a nail in shape.
He wears on his head the corona radiata . . . ; the spikes that shoot
out represent the rays of the sun. Addison.

3. An ear of corn or grain.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of flower cluster in which sessile flowers are arranged
on an unbranched elongated axis. Spike grass (Bot.), either of two
tall perennial American grasses (Uniola paniculata, and U. latifolia)
having broad leaves and large flattened spikelets.
 -- Spike rush. (Bot.) See under Rush.
 -- Spike shell (Zool.), any pteropod of the genus Styliola having a
slender conical shell.
 -- Spike team, three horses, or a horse and a yoke of oxen,
harnessed together, a horse leading the oxen or the span. [U.S.]

SPIKE
Spike, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spiked; p. pr. & vb. n. Spiking.]

1. To fasten with spikes, or long, large nails; as, to spike down
planks.

2. To set or furnish with spikes.

3. To fix on a spike. [R.] Young.

4. To stop the vent of (a gun or cannon) by driving a spike nail, or
the like into it.

SPIKE
Spike, n. Etym: [Cf. G. spieke, L. spica an ear of grain. See
Spikenard.] (Bot.)

Defn: Spike lavender. See Lavender. Oil of spike (Chem.), a colorless
or yellowish aromatic oil extracted from the European broad-leaved
lavender, or aspic (Lavendula Spica), used in artist's varnish and in
veterinary medicine. It is often adulterated with oil of turpentine,
which it much resembles.

SPIKEBILL
Spike"bill`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The hooded merganser.
(b) The marbled godwit (Limosa fedoa).

SPIKED
Spiked, a.

Defn: Furnished or set with spikes, as corn; fastened with spikes;
stopped with spikes.
A youth, leaping over the spiked pales, . . . was caught by those
spikes. Wiseman.

SPIKEFISH
Spike"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Sailfish (a)

SPIKELET
Spike"let, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small or secondary spike; especially, one of the ultimate
parts of the in florescence of grasses. See Illust. of Quaking grass.

SPIKENARD
Spike"nard, n.Etym: [For spiked nard; cf. G. spieknarde, NL. spica
nardi. See Spike an ear, and Nard.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An aromatic plant. In the United States it is the Aralia
racemosa, often called spignet, and used as a medicine. The spikenard
of the ancients is the Nardostachys Jatamansi, a native of the
Himalayan region. From its blackish roots a perfume for the hair is
still prepared in India.

2. A fragrant essential oil, as that from the Nardostachys Jatamansi.

SPIKETAIL
Spike"tail`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The pintail duck. [Local, U.S.]

SPIKY
Spik"y, a.

1. Like a spike; spikelike.
These spiky, vivid outbursts of metallic vapors. C. A. Young.

2. Having a sharp point, or sharp points; furnished or armed with
spikes.
Or by the spiky harrow cleared away. Dyer.
The spiky wheels through heaps of carnage tore. Pope.

SPILE
Spile, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. spile, dial. G. speil, speiler, D. spijl.
*170.]

1. A small plug or wooden pin, used to stop a vent, as in a cask.

2. A small tube or spout inserted in a tree for conducting sap, as
from a sugar maple.

3. A large stake driven into the ground as a support for some
superstructure; a pile. Spile hole, a small air hole in a cask; a
vent.

SPILE
Spile, v. t.

Defn: To supply with a spile or a spigot; to make a small vent in, as
a cask.

SPILIKIN
Spil"i*kin, n. Etym: [OD. spelleken a small pin. See Spill a
splinter.]

Defn: One of a number of small pieces or pegs of wood, ivory, bone,
or other material, for playing a game, or for counting the score in a
game, as in cribbage. In the plural (spilikins), a game played with
such pieces; pushpin. [Written also spillikin, spilliken.]

SPILL
Spill, n. Etym: [sq. root170. Cf. Spell a splinter.]

1. A bit of wood split off; a splinter. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

2. A slender piece of anything. Specifically: --
(a) A peg or pin for plugging a hole, as in a cask; a spile.
(b) A metallic rod or pin.
(c) A small roll of paper, or slip of wood, used as a lamplighter,
etc.
(d) (Mining) One of the thick laths or poles driven horizontally
ahead of the main timbering in advancing a level in loose ground.

3. A little sum of money. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

SPILL
Spill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spilt; p. pr. & vb. n. Spilling.]

Defn: To cover or decorate with slender pieces of wood, metal, ivory,
etc.; to inlay. [Obs.] Spenser.

SPILL
Spill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spilled, or Spilt (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Spilling.] Etym: [OE. spillen,sually, to destroy, AS. spillan,
spildan, to destroy; akin to Icel. spilla to destroy, Sw. spilla to
spill, Dan. spilde,G. & D. spillen to squander, OHG. spildan.]

1. To destroy; to kill; to put an end to. [Obs.]
And gave him to the queen, all at her will To choose whether she
would him save or spill. Chaucer.
Greater glory think [it] to save than spill. Spenser.

2. To mar; to injure; to deface; hence, to destroy by misuse; to
waste. [Obs.]
They [the colors] disfigure the stuff and spill the whole
workmanship. Puttenham.
Spill not the morning, the quintessence of day, in recreations.
Fuller.

3. To suffer to fall or run out of a vessel; to lose, or suffer to be
scattered; -- applied to fluids and to substances whose particles are
small and loose; as, to spill water from a pail; to spill quicksilver
from a vessel; to spill powder from a paper; to spill sand or flour.

Note: Spill differs from pour in expressing accidental loss, -- a
loss or waste contrary to purpose.

4. To cause to flow out and be lost or wasted; to shed, or suffer to
be shed, as in battle or in manslaughter; as, a man spills another's
blood, or his own blood.
And to revenge his blood so justly spilt. Dryden.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To relieve a sail from the pressure of the wind, so that it can
be more easily reefed or furled, or to lessen the strain. Spilling
line (Naut.), a rope used for spilling, or dislodging, the wind from
the belly of a sail. Totten.

SPILL
Spill, v. i.

1. To be destroyed, ruined, or wasted; to come to ruin; to perish; to
waste. [Obs.]
That thou wilt suffer innocents to spill. Chaucer.

2. To be shed; to run over; to fall out, and be lost or wasted. "He
was so topful of himself, that he let it spill on all the company."
I. Watts.

SPILLER
Spill"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, spills.

2. A kind of fishing line with many hooks; a boulter.

SPILLET FISHING; SPILLIARD FISHING
Spil"let fish`ing, Spil"liard fish`ing,

Defn: A system or method of fishing by means of a number of hooks set
on snoods all on one line; -- in North America, called trawl fishing,
bultow, or bultow fishing, and long-line fishing.

SPILLIKIN
Spil"li*kin, n.

Defn: See Spilikin.

SPILLWAY
Spill"way`, n.

Defn: A sluiceway or passage for superfluous water in a reservoir, to
prevent too great pressure on the dam.

SPILT
Spilt,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Spill. Spilled.

SPILTER
Spil"ter, n. Etym: [From Spill, n.]

Defn: Any one of the small branches on a stag's head. [Obs.] Howell.

SPILTH
Spilth, n. Etym: [From Spill.]

Defn: Anything spilt, or freely poured out; slop; effusion. [Archaic]
"With drunken spilth of wine." Shak.
Choicest cates, and the flagon's best spilth. R. Browning.

SPIN
Spin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spun (Archaic imp. Span (); p. pr. & vb. n.
Spinning.] Etym: [AS. spinnan; akin to D. & G. spinnen, Icel. & Sw.
spinna, Dan. spinde, Goth. spinnan, and probably to E. span. sq.
root170. Cf. Span, v. t., Spider.]

1. To draw out, and twist into threads, either by the hand or
machinery; as, to spin wool, cotton, or flax; to spin goat's hair; to
produce by drawing out and twisting a fibrous material.
All the yarn she [Penelope] spun in Ulysses' absence did but fill
Ithaca full of moths. Shak.

2. To draw out tediously; to form by a slow process, or by degrees;
to extend to a great length; -- with out; as, to spin out large
volumes on a subject.
Do you mean that story is tediously spun out Sheridan.

3. To protract; to spend by delays; as, to spin out the day in
idleness.
By one delay after another they spin out their whole lives.
L'Estrange.

4. To cause to turn round rapidly; to whirl; to twirl; as, to spin a
top.

5. To form (a web, a cocoon, silk, or the like) from threads produced
by the extrusion of a viscid, transparent liquid, which hardens on
coming into contact with the air; -- said of the spider, the
silkworm, etc.

6. (Mech.)

Defn: To shape, as malleable sheet metal, into a hollow form, by
bending or buckling it by pressing against it with a smooth hand tool
or roller while the metal revolves, as in a lathe. To spin a yarn
(Naut.), to tell a story, esp. a long or fabulous tale.
 -- To spin hay (Mil.), to twist it into ropes for convenient
carriage on an expedition.
 -- To spin street yarn, to gad about gossiping. [Collog.]

SPIN
Spin, v. i.

1. To practice spinning; to work at drawing and twisting threads; to
make yarn or thread from fiber; as, the woman knows how to spin; a
machine or jenny spins with great exactness.
They neither know to spin, nor care to toll. Prior.

2. To move round rapidly; to whirl; to revolve, as a top or a
spindle, about its axis.
Round about him spun the landscape, Sky and forest reeled together.
Longfellow.
With a whirligig of jubilant mosquitoes spinning about each head. G.
W. Cable.

3. To stream or issue in a thread or a small current or jet; as,
blood spinsfrom a vein. Shak.

4. To move swifty; as, to spin along the road in a carriage, on a
bicycle, etc. [Colloq.]

SPIN
Spin, n.

1. The act of spinning; as, the spin of a top; a spin a bicycle.
[Colloq.]

2. (Kinematics)

Defn: Velocity of rotation about some specified axis. go for a spin
take a spin, take a trip in a wheeled vehicle, usu. an automobile.

SPINA BIFIDA
Spi"na bif"i*da. (Med.) Etym: [L., cleft spine.]

Defn: A congenital malformation in which the spinal column is cleft
at its lower portion, and the membranes of the spinal cord project as
an elastic swelling from the gap thus formed.

SPINACEOUS
Spi*na"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, the plant spinach, or the
family of plants to which it belongs.

SPINACH; SPINAGE
Spin"ach, Spin"age, n. Etym: [OF. espinache, espinoche, F. epinard;
cf. F. spinace, Sp. espinaca; all fr. Ar. isfanaj, isfinaj, aspanakh,
probably of Persian origin.] (Bot.)

Defn: A common pot herb (Spinacia oleracea) belonging to the
Goosefoot family. Mountain spinach. See Garden orache, under Orache.
 -- New Zealand spinach (Bot.), a coarse herb (Tetragonia expansa), a
poor substitute for spinach.

Note: Various other pot herbs are locally called spinach.

SPINAL
Spi"nal, a. Etym: [L. spinalis, fr. spina the spine: cf. F. spinal.
See Spine.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the backbone, or
vertebral column; rachidian; vertebral.

2. Of or pertaining to a spine or spines. Spinal accessory nerves,
the eleventh pair of cranial nerves in the higher vertebrates. They
originate from the spinal cord and pass forward into the skull, from
which they emerge in company with the pneumogastrics.
 -- Spinal column, the backbone, or connected series or vertebr?
which forms the axis of the vertebrate skeleton; the spine; rachis;
vertebral column.
 -- Spinal cord, the great nervous cord extending backward from the
brain along the dorsal side of the spinal column of a vertebrate
animal, and usually terminating in a threadlike appendage called the
filum terminale; the spinal, or vertebral, marrow; the myelon. The
nervous tissue consists of nerve fibers and nerve cells, the latter
being confined to the so-called gray matter of the central portions
of the cord, while the peripheral white matter is composed of nerve
fibers only. The center of the cord is traversed by a slender canal
connecting with the ventricles of the brain.

SPINATE
Spi"nate, a.

Defn: Bearing a spine; spiniform.

SPINDLE
Spin"dle, n. Etym: [AS. spinal, fr. spinnan to spin; akin to D. spil,
G. spille, spindel, OHG. spinnala. sq. root170. See Spin.]

1. The long, round, slender rod or pin in spinning wheels by which
the thread is twisted, and on which, when twisted, it is wound; also,
the pin on which the bobbin is held in a spinning machine, or in the
shuttle of a loom.

2. A slender rod or pin on which anything turns; an axis; as, the
spindle of a vane. Specifically: --(a) (Mach.)

Defn: The shaft, mandrel, or arbor, in a machine tool, as a lathe or
drilling machine, etc., which causes the work to revolve, or carries
a tool or center, etc.
(b) (Mach.) The vertical rod on which the runner of a grinding mill
turns.
(c) (Founding) A shaft or pipe on which a core of sand is formed.

3. The fusee of a watch.

4. A long and slender stalk resembling a spindle.

5. A yarn measure containing, in cotton yarn, 15,120 yards; in linen
yarn, 14,400 yards.

6. (Geom.)

Defn: A solid generated by the revolution of a curved line about its
base or double ordinate or chord.

7. (Zool.)
(a) Any marine univalve shell of the genus Rostellaria; -- called
also spindle stromb.
(b) Any marine gastropod of the genus Fusus. Dead spindle (Mach.), a
spindle in a machine tool that does not revolve; the spindle of the
tailstock of a lathe.
 -- Live spindle (Mach.), the revolving spindle of a machine tool;
the spindle of the headstock of a turning lathe.
 -- Spindle shell. (Zool.) See Spindle, 7. above.
 -- Spindle side, the female side in descent; in the female line;
opposed to spear side. Ld. Lytton. [R.] "King Lycaon, grandson, by
the spindle side, of Oceanus." Lowell.
 -- Spindle tree (Bot.), any shrub or tree of the genus Eunymus. The
wood of E. Europ?us was used for spindles and skewers. See Prickwood.

SPINDLE
Spin"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Spindled(); p. pr. & vb. n. Spindling.]

Defn: To shoot or grow into a long, slender stalk or body; to become
disproportionately tall and slender.
It has begun to spindle into overintellectuality. Lowell.

SPINDLE-LEGGED
Spin"dle-legged`, a.

Defn: Having long, slender legs.

SPINDLELEGS
Spin"dle*legs`, n.

Defn: A spindlehanks.

SPINDLE-SHANKED
Spin"dle-shanked`, a.

Defn: Having long, slender legs. Addison.

SPINDLESHANKS
Spin"dle*shanks`, n.

Defn: A person with slender shanks, or legs; -- used humorously or in
contempt.

SPINDLE-SHAPED
Spin"dle-shaped`, a.

1. Having the shape of a spindle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Thickest in the middle, and tapering to both ends; fusiform; --
applied chiefly to roots.

SPINDLETAIL
Spin"dle*tail`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The pintail duck. [Local, U.S.]

SPINDLEWORM
Spin"dle*worm`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The larva of a noctuid mmoth (Achatodes ze?) which feeds inside
the stalks of corn (maize), sometimes causing much damage. It is
smooth, with a black head and tail and a row of black dots across
each segment.

SPINDLING
Spin"dling, a.

Defn: Long and slender, or disproportionately tall and slender; as, a
spindling tree; a spindling boy.

SPINDRIFT
Spin"drift, n.

Defn: Same as Spoondrift.

The ocean waves are broken up by wind, ultimately producing the storm
wrack and spindrift of the tempest-tossed sea.
J. E. Marr.

SPINE
Spine, n. Etym: [L. spina thorn, the spine; akin to spica a point:
cf. OF. espine, F. epine. Cf. Spike, Spinet a musical instrument,
Spinny.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A sharp appendage to any of a plant; a thorn.

2. (Zool.)
(a) A rigid and sharp projection upon any part of an animal.
(b) One of the rigid and undivided fin rays of a fish.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The backbone, or spinal column, of an animal; -- so called from
the projecting processes upon the vertebr?.

4. Anything resembling the spine or backbone; a ridge.

SPINEBACK
Spine"back`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A fish having spines in, or in front of, the dorsal fins.

SPINEBILL
Spine"bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of Australian birds of the genus Acanthorhynchus.
They are related to the honey eaters.

SPINED
Spined, a.

Defn: Furnished with spines; spiny.

SPINE-FINNED
Spine"-finned`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having fine supported by spinous fin rays; -- said of certain
fishes.

SPINEL; SPINELLE
Spi*nel", Spi*nelle", n. Etym: [F. spinelle, or LL. spinellus,
perhaps from L. spina a thorn, a prickle, in allusion to its pointed
crystals.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occuring in octahedrons of great hardness and various
colors, as red, green, blue, brown, and black, the red variety being
the gem spinel ruby. It consist essentially of alumina and magnesia,
but commonly contains iron and sometimes also chromium.

Note: The spinel group includes spinel proper, also magnetite,
chromite, franklinite, gahnite, etc., all of which may be regarded as
composed of a sesquioxide and a protoxide in equal proportions.

SPINEL
Spin"el, n.

Defn: Bleached yarn in making the linen tape called inkle; unwrought
inkle. Knight.

SPINELESS
Spine"less, a.

Defn: Having no spine.

SPINESCENCE
Spi*nes"cence, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being spinescent or spiny; also, a
spiny growth or covering, as of certain animals.

SPINESCENT
Spi*nes"cent, a.Etym: [L. spinescens, -entis, p. pr. of spinescere to
know to grow thorny, fr. spina a thorn: cf. F. spinescent.] (Bot.)

Defn: Becoming hard and thorny; tapering gradually to a rigid,
leafless point; armed with spines. Gray.

SPINET
Spin"et, n. Etym: [OF. espinete, F. epinette (cf. It. spinetta), fr.
L. spina a thorn; -- so called because its quills resemble thorns.
See Spine.] (Mus.)

Defn: A keyed instrument of music resembling a harpsichord, but
smaller, with one string of brass or steel wire to each note, sounded
by means of leather or quill plectrums or jacks. It was formerly much
used. Dumb spinet. (Mus.) See Manichordon.

SPINET
Spi"net, n. Etym: [L. spinetum. See Spinny.]

Defn: A spinny. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SPINETAIL
Spine"tail`, n. (Zool.)
(a) Any one or several species of swifts of the genus Acanthylis, or
Ch?tura, and allied genera, in which the shafts of the tail feathers
terminate in rigid spines.
(b) Any one of several species of South American and Central American
clamatorial birds belonging to Synallaxis and allied genera of the
family Dendrocolaptid?. They are allied to the ovenbirds.
(c) The ruddy duck. [Local, U.S.]

SPINE-TAILED
Spine"-tailed, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the tail quills ending in sharp, naked tips. Spine-
tailed swift. (Zool.) See Spinetail (a).

SPINETED
Spin"et*ed, a.

Defn: Slit; cleft. [Obs. & R.]

SPINIFEROUS
Spi*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. spinifer; spina thorn + ferre to
produce.]

Defn: Producing spines; bearing thorns or spines; thorny; spiny.

SPINIFEX
Spin"i*fex, n. [NL.; L. spina spine + facere to make.]

1. (Bot.) A genus of chiefly Australian grasses, the seeds of which
bear an elastic spine. S. hirsutus (black grass) and S. longifolius
are useful as sand binders. S. paradoxusis a valuable perennial
fodder plant. Also, a plant of this genus.

2.  Any of several Australian grasses of the genus Tricuspis, which
often form dense, almost impassable growth, their leaves being stiff
and sharp-pointed.

SPINIFORM
Spin"i*form, a.

Defn: Shaped like a spine.

SPINIGEROUS
Spi*nig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. spiniger; spina spine + gerere to bear.]

Defn: Bearing a spine or spines; thorn-bearing.

SPININESS
Spin"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being spiny.

SPINI-SPIRULATE
Spin`i-*spir"u*late, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having spines arranged spirally. See Spicule.

SPINK
Spink, n. Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. spink a kind of small bird, Gr.
finch.] (Zool.)

Defn: The chaffinch.

SPINNAKER
Spin"na*ker, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A large triangular sail set upon a boom, -- used when running
before the wind.

SPINNER
Spin"ner, n.

1. One who, or that which, spins one skilled in spinning; a spinning
machine.

2. A spider. "Long-legged spinners." Shak.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A goatsucker; -- so called from the peculiar noise it makes
when darting through the air.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: A spinneret. Ring spinner, a machine for spinning, in which the
twist, given to the yarn by a revolving bobbin, is regulated by the
drag of a small metal loop which slides around a ring encircling the
bobbin, instead of by a throstle.

SPINNERET
Spin"ner*et, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the special jointed organs situated on the under side,
and near the end, of the abdomen of spiders, by means of which they
spin their webs. Most spiders have three pairs of spinnerets, but
some have only two pairs. The ordinary silk line of the spider is
composed of numerous smaller lines jointed after issuing from the
spinnerets.

SPINNERULE
Spin"ner*ule, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the numerous small spinning tubes on the spinnerets of
spiders.

SPINNEY
Spin"ney, n.; pl. Spinneys (.

Defn: Same as Spinny. T. Hughes.

SPINNING
Spin"ning, a. & n.

Defn: from Spin. Spinning gland (Zool.), one of the glands which form
the material for spinning the silk of silkworms and other larv?.
 -- Spinning house, formerly a common name for a house of correction
in England, the women confined therein being employed in spinning.
 -- Spinning jenny (Mach.), an engine or machine for spinning wool or
cotton, by means of a large number of spindles revolving
simultaneously.
 -- Spinning mite (Zool.), the red spider.
 -- Spinning wheel, a machine for spinning yarn or thread, in which a
wheel drives a single spindle, and is itself driven by the hand, or
by the foot acting on a treadle.

SPINNY
Spin"ny, n.; pl. Spinnies. Etym: [OF. espinaye,espinoye, espinei,
espanoi, F. epinaie, from L. spinetum a thicket of thorns, fr. spina
a thorn. See Spine.]

Defn: A small thicket or grove with undergrowth; a clump of trees.
[Written also spinney, and spinny.]
The downs rise steep, crowned with black fir spinnies. C. Kingsley.

SPINNY
Spin"ny, a. Etym: [Cf. Spiny, a.]

Defn: Thin and long; slim; slender. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SPINOSE
Spi*nose", a.Etym: [L. spinosus, from spina a thorn.]

Defn: Full of spines; armed with thorns; thorny.

SPINOSITY
Spi*nos"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being spiny or thorny; spininess.

SPINOUS
Spi"nous, a.

1. Spinose; thorny.

2. Having the form of a spine or thorn; spinelike. Spinous process of
a vertebra (Anat.), the dorsal process of the neural arch of a
vertebra; a neurapophysis.

SPINOZISM
Spi*no"zism, n.

Defn: The form of Pantheism taught by Benedict Spinoza, that there is
but one substance, or infinite essence, in the universe, of which the
so-called material and spiritual beings and phenomena are only modes,
and that one this one substance is God. [Written also Spinosism.]

SPINOZIST
Spi*no"zist, n.

Defn: A believer in Spinozism.

SPINSTER
Spin"ster, n. Etym: [Spin + -ster.]

1. A woman who spins, or whose occupation is to spin.
She spake to spinster to spin it out. Piers Plowman.
The spinsters and the knitters in the sun. Shak.

2. A man who spins. [Obs.] Shak.

3. (Law)

Defn: An unmarried or single woman; -- used in legal proceedings as a
title, or addition to the surname.
If a gentlewoman be termed a spinster, she may abate the writ. Coke.

4. A woman of evil life and character; -- so called from being forced
to spin in a house of correction. [Obs.]

SPINSTRESS
Spin"stress, n.

Defn: A woman who spins. T. Brown.

SPINSTRY
Spin"stry, n.

Defn: The business of one who spins; spinning. [Obs.] Milton.

SPINTHARISCOPE
Spin*thar"i*scope, n. [Gr. spinqari`s spark + -scope.]

Defn: A small instrument containing a minute particle of a radium
compound mounted in front of a fluorescent screen and viewed with
magnifying lenses. The tiny flashes produced by the continual
bombardment of the screen by the a rays are thus rendered visible. --
Spin*thar`i*scop"ic (#), a.

SPINULE
Spin"ule, n. Etym: [L. spinula, dim. of spina a spine: cf. F.
spinule.]

Defn: A minute spine. Dana.

SPINULESCENT
Spin`u*les"cent, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having small spines; somewhat thorny.

SPINULOSE; SPINULOUS
Spin"u*lose`, Spin"u*lous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. spinuleux.]

Defn: Covered with small spines.

SPINY
Spin"y, a. Etym: [From Spine.]

1. Full of spines; thorny; as, a spiny tree.

2. Like a spine in shape; slender. "Spiny grasshoppers sit chirping."
Chapman.

3. Fig.: Abounding with difficulties or annoyances.
The spiny deserts of scholastic philosophy. Bp. Warburton.
Spiny lobster. (Zool.) Same as Rock lobster, under Rock. See also
Lobster.

SPINY
Spin"y, n.

Defn: See Spinny.

SPIODEA
Spi*o"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Spio the typical genus.] (Zool.)

Defn: An extensive division of marine Annelida, including those that
are without oral tentacles or cirri, and have the gills, when
present, mostly arranged along the sides of the body. They generally
live in burrows or tubes.

SPIRABLE
Spi"ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. spirabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being breathed; respirable. [Obs.] Nash.

SPIRACLE
Spir"a*cle, n.Etym: [L. spiraculum, fr. spirare to breathe: cf. F.
spiracule. See Spirit.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The nostril, or one of the nostrils, of whales, porpoises, and
allied animals.

2. (Zool.)
(a) One of the external openings communicating with the air tubes or
trache? of insects, myriapods, and arachnids. They are variable in
number, and are usually situated on the sides of the thorax and
abdomen, a pair to a segment. These openings are usually elliptical,
and capable of being closed. See Illust. under Coleoptera.
(a) A tubular orifice communicating with the gill cavity of certain
ganoid and all elasmobranch fishes. It is the modified first gill
cleft.

3. Any small aperture or vent for air or other fluid.

SPIRACULAR
Spi*rac"u*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a spiracle.

SPIRAEA
Spi*r?"a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of shrubs or perennial herbs including the meadowsweet
and the hardhack.

SPIRAEIC
Spi*r?"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or derived from, the meadowsweet (Spir?a);
formerly, designating an acid which is now called salicylic acid.

SPIRAL
Spi"ral, a. Etym: [Cf. F. spiral. See Spire a winding line.]

1. Winding or circling round a center or pole and gradually receding
from it; as, the spiral curve of a watch spring.

2. Winding round a cylinder or imaginary axis, and at the same time
rising or advancing forward; winding like the thread of a screw;
helical.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a spiral; like a spiral. Spiral gear, or
Spiral wheel (Mach.), a gear resembling in general a spur gear, but
having its teeth cut at an angle with its axis, or so that they form
small portions of screws or spirals.
 -- Spiral gearing, a kind of gearing sometimes used in light
machinery, in which spiral gears, instead of bevel gears, are used to
transmit motion between shafts that are not parallel.
 -- Spiral operculum, an operculum whih has spiral lines of growth.
 -- Spiral shell, any shell in which the whorls form a spiral or
helix.
 -- Spiral spring. See the Note under Spring, n., 4.

SPIRAL
Spi"ral, n. Etym: [Cf. F. spirale. See Spiral, a.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A plane curve, not reentrant, described by a point, called the
generatrix, moving along a straight line according to a mathematical
law, while the line is revolving about a fixed point called the pole.
Cf. Helix.

2. Anything which has a spiral form, as a spiral shell. Equiangular
spiral,a plane curve which cuts all its generatrices at the same
angle. Same as Logarithmic spiral, under Logarithmic.
 -- Spiral of Archimedes, a spiral the law of which is that the
generatrix moves uniformly along the revolving line, which also moves
uniformly.

SPIRALITY
Spi*ral"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or states of being spiral.

SPIRALLY
Spi"ral*ly, adv.

Defn: In a spiral form, manner, or direction.

SPIRALOZOOID
Spi*ra`lo*zo"oid, n. Etym: [Spiral + zooid. So called because they
often have a spiral form when contracted.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of the special defensive zooids of certain hydroids. They
have the form of long, slender tentacles, and bear lasso cells.

SPIRANT
Spi"rant, n. Etym: [L. spirans, -antis, p. pr. of spirare to breathe.
See Spirit.] (Phon.)

Defn: A term used differently by different authorities; -- by some as
equivalent to fricative, -- that is, as including all the continuous
consonants, except the nasals m, n, ng; with the further exception,
by others, of the liquids r, l, and the semivowels w, y; by others
limited to f, v, th surd and sonant, and the sound of German ch, --
thus excluding the sibilants, as well as the nasals, liquids, and
semivowels. See Guide to Pronunciation,  197-208.

SPIRANTHY
Spi*ran"thy, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The occasional twisted growth of the parts of a flower.

SPIRATION
Spi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. spiratio, fr. spirare to breathe.]

Defn: The act of breathing. [Obs.] Barrow.

SPIRE
Spire, v. i. Etym: [L. spirare to breathe. See Spirit.]

Defn: To breathe. [Obs.] Shenstone.

SPIRE
Spire, n. Etym: [OE. spire, spir, a blade of grass, a young shoot,
AS. spir; akin to G. spier a blade of grass, Dan. spire a sprout,
sprig, Sw. spira a spar, Icel. spira.]

1. A slender stalk or blade in vegetation; as, a spire grass or of
wheat.
An oak cometh up a little spire. Chaucer.

2. A tapering body that shoots up or out to a point in a conical or
pyramidal form. Specifically (Arch.), the roof of a tower when of a
pyramidal form and high in proportion to its width; also, the
pyramidal or aspiring termination of a tower which can not be said to
have a roof, such as that of Strasburg cathedral; the tapering part
of a steeple, or the steeple itself. "With glistering spires and
pinnacles adorned." Milton.
A spire of land that stand apart, Cleft from the main. Tennyson.
Tall spire from which the sound of cheerful bells Just undulates upon
the listening ear. Cowper.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A tube or fuse for communicating fire to the chargen in
blasting.

4. The top, or uppermost point, of anything; the summit.
The spire and top of praises. Shak.

SPIRE
Spire, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Spired; p. pr. & vb. n. Spiring.]

Defn: To shoot forth, or up in, or as if in, a spire. Emerson.
It is not so apt to spire up as the other sorts, being more inclined
to branch into arms. Mortimer.

SPIRE
Spire, n. Etym: [L. spira coil, twist; akin to Gr. spire.]

1. A spiral; a curl; a whorl; a twist. Dryden.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: The part of a spiral generated in one revolution of the
straight line about the pole. See Spiral, n. Spire bearer. (Paleon.)
Same as Spirifer.

SPIRED
Spired, a.

Defn: Having a spire; being in the form of a spire; as, a spired
steeple. Mason.

SPIRICLE
Spi"ri*cle, n. Etym: [Dim., fr. L. spira a coil.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of certain minute coiled threads in the coating of some
seeds. When moistened these threads protrude in great numbers. Gray.

SPIRIFER
Spi"ri*fer, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. spira a coil + ferreto bear.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of fossil brachipods of the genus
Spirifer, or Delthyris, and allied genera, in which the long
calcareous supports of the arms form a large spiral, or helix, on
each side.

SPIRILLUM
Spi*ril"lum, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. spira a coil.] (Biol.)

Defn: A genus of common motile microorganisms (Spirobacteria) having
the form of spiral-shaped filaments. One species is said to be the
cause of relapsing fever.

SPIRING
Spir"ing, a.

Defn: Shooting up in a spire or spires. "The spiring grass." Dryton.

SPIRIT
Spir"it, n. Etym: [OF. espirit, esperit, F. esprit, L. spiritus, from
spirare to breathe, to blow. Cf. Conspire, Expire, Esprit, Sprite.]

1. Air set in motion by breathing; breath; hence, sometimes, life
itself. [Obs.] "All of spirit would deprive." Spenser.
The mild air, with season moderate, Gently attempered, and disposed
eo well, That still it breathed foorth sweet spirit. Spenser.

2. A rough breathing; an aspirate, as the letter h; also, a mark to
denote aspiration; a breathing. [Obs.]
Be it a letter or spirit, we have great use for it. B. Jonson.

3. Life, or living substance, considered independently of corporeal
existence; an intelligence conceived of apart from any physical
organization or embodiment; vital essence, force, or energy, as
distinct from matter.

4. The intelligent, immaterial and immortal part of man; the soul, in
distinction from the body in which it resides; the agent or subject
of vital and spiritual functions, whether spiritual or material.
There is a spirit in man; and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth
them understanding. Job xxxii. 8.
As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is
dead also. James ii. 26.
Spirit is a substance wherein thinking, knowing, doubting, and a
power of moving, do subsist. Locke.

5. Specifically, a disembodied soul; the human soul after it has left
the body.
Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit
shall return unto God who gave it. Eccl. xii. 7.
Ye gentle spirits far away, With whom we shared the cup of grace.
Keble.

6. Any supernatural being, good or bad; an apparition; a specter; a
ghost; also, sometimes, a sprite,; a fairy; an elf.
Whilst young, preserve his tender mind from all impressions of
spirits and goblins in the dark. Locke.

7. Energy, vivacity, ardor, enthusiasm, courage, etc.
"Write it then, quickly," replied Bede; and summoning all his spirits
together, like the last blaze of a candle going out, he indited it,
and expired. Fuller.

8. One who is vivacious or lively; one who evinces great activity or
peculiar characteristics of mind or temper; as, a ruling spirit; a
schismatic spirit.
Such spirits as he desired to please, such would I choose for my
judges. Dryden.

9. Temper or disposition of mind; mental condition or disposition;
intellectual or moral state; -- often in the plural; as, to be
cheerful, or in good spirits; to be downhearted, or in bad spirits.
God has . . . made a spirit of building succeed a spirit of pulling
down. South.
A perfect judge will read each work of wit With the same spirit that
its author writ. Pope.

10. Intent; real meaning; -- opposed to the letter, or to formal
statement; also, characteristic quality, especially such as is
derived from the individual genius or the personal character; as, the
spirit of an enterprise, of a document, or the like.

11. Tenuous, volatile, airy, or vapory substance, possessed of active
qualities.
All bodies have spirits . . . within them. Bacon.

12. Any liquid produced by distillation; especially, alcohol, the
spirits, or spirit, of wine (it having been first distilled from
wine): -- often in the plural.

13. pl.

Defn: Rum, whisky, brandy, gin, and other distilled liquors having
much alcohol, in distinction from wine and malt liquors.

14. (Med.)

Defn: A solution in alcohol of a volatile principle. Cf. Tincture. U.
S. Disp.

15. (Alchemy)

Defn: Any one of the four substances, sulphur, sal ammoniac,
quicksilver, or arsenic (or, according to some, orpiment).
The four spirits and the bodies seven. Chaucer.

16. (Dyeing)

Defn: Stannic chloride. See under Stannic.

Note: Spirit is sometimes joined with other words, forming compounds,
generally of obvious signification; as, spirit-moving, spirit-
searching, spirit-stirring, etc. Astral spirits, Familiar spirits,
etc. See under Astral, Familiar, etc.
 -- Animal spirits. (a) (Physiol.) The fluid which at one time was
supposed to circulate through the nerves and was regarded as the
agent of sensation and motion; -- called also the nervous fluid, or
nervous principle. (b) Physical health and energy; frolicsomeness;
sportiveness.
 -- Ardent spirits, strong alcoholic liquors, as brandy, rum, whisky,
etc., obtained by distillation.
 -- Holy Spirit, or The Spirit (Theol.), the Spirit of God, or the
third person of the Trinity; the Holy Ghost. The spirit also
signifies the human spirit as influenced or animated by the Divine
Spirit.
 -- Proof spirit. (Chem.) See under Proof.
 -- Rectified spirit (Chem.), spirit rendered purer or more
concentrated by redistillation, so as to increase the percentage of
absolute alcohol.
 -- Spirit butterfly (Zool.), any one of numerous species of delicate
butterflies of tropical America belonging to the genus Ithomia. The
wings are gauzy and nearly destitute of scales.
 -- Spirit duck. (Zool.) (a) The buffle-headed duck. (b) The golden-
eye.
 -- Spirit lamp (Art), a lamp in which alcohol or methylated spirit
is burned.
 -- Spirit level. See under Level.
 -- Spirit of hartshorn. (Old Chem.) See under Hartshorn.
 -- Spirit of Mindererus (Med.), an aqueous solution of acetate of
ammonium; -- named after R. Minderer, physician of Augsburg.
 -- Spirit of nitrous ether (Med. Chem.), a pale yellow liquid, of a
sweetish taste and a pleasant ethereal odor. It is obtained by the
distillatin of alcohol with nitric and sulphuric acids, and consists
essentially of ethyl nitrite with a little acetic aldehyde. It is
used a diaphoretic, diuretic, antispasmodic, etc. Called also sweet
spirit of niter.
 -- Spirit of salt (Chem.), hydrochloric acid; -- so called because
obtained from salt and sulphuric acid. [Obs.] -- Spirit of sense, the
utmost refinement of sensation. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Spirits, or Spirit, of turpentine (Chem.), rectified oil of
turpentine, a transparent, colorless, volatile, and very inflammable
liquid, distilled from the turpentine of the various species of pine;
camphine. See Camphine.
 -- Spirit of vitriol (Chem.), sulphuric acid; -- so called because
formerly obtained by the distillation of green vitriol. [Obs.] --
Spirit of vitriolic ether (Chem.) ether; -- often but incorrectly
called sulphuric ether. See Ether. [Obs.] -- Spirits, or Spirit, of
wine (Chem.), alcohol; -- so called because formerly obtained by the
distillation of wine.
 -- Spirit rapper, one who practices spirit rapping; a "medium" so
called.
 -- Spirit rapping, an alleged form of communication with the spirits
of the dead by raps. See Spiritualism, 3.
 -- Sweet spirit of niter. See Spirit of nitrous ether, above.

Syn.
 -- Life; ardor; energy; fire; courage; animatioon; cheerfulness;
vivacity; enterprise.

SPIRIT
Spir"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spirited; p. pr. & vb. n. Spiriting.]

1. To animate with vigor; to excite; to encourage; to inspirit; as,
civil dissensions often spirit the ambition of private men; --
sometimes followed by up.
Many officers and private men spirit up and assist those obstinate
people to continue in their rebellion. Swift
.

2. To convey rapidly and secretly, or mysteriously, as if by the
agency of a spirit; to kidnap; -- often with away, or off.
The ministry had him spirited away, and carried abroad as a dangerous
person. Arbuthnot & Pope.
I felt as if I had been spirited into some castle of antiquity.
Willis.
Spiriting away (Law), causing to leave; the offense of inducing a
witness to leave a jurisdiction so as to evade process requiring
attendance at trial.

SPIRITALLY
Spir"it*al*ly, adv.Etym: [L. spiritalis belonging to breathing.]

Defn: By means of the breath. [Obs.] Holder.

SPIRITED
Spir"it*ed, a.

1. Animated or possessed by a spirit. [Obs.] "So talked the spirited,
sly snake." Milton.

2. Animated; full of life or vigor; lively; full of spirit or fire;
as, a spirited oration; a spirited answer.

Note: Spirited is much used in composition; as in high-spirited, low-
spirited, mean-spirited, etc.

Syn.
 -- Lively; vivacious; animated; ardent; active; bold; courageous.
 -- Spir"it*ed*ly, adv.
 -- Spir"it*ed*ness, n.

SPIRITFUL
Spir"it*ful, a.

Defn: Full of spirit; spirited. [R.]
The spiritful and orderly life of our own grown men. Milton.
-- Spir"it*ful*ly, adv.
 -- Spir"it*ful*ness, n.

SPIRITISM
Spir"it*ism, n.

Defn: Spiritualsm.

SPIRITIST
Spir"it*ist, n.

Defn: A spiritualist.

SPIRITLESS
Spir"it*less, a.

1. Destitute of spirit; wanting animation; wanting cheerfulness;
dejected; depressed.

2. Destitute of vigor; wanting life, courage, or fire.
A men so faint, so spiritless, So dull, so dead in lock, so
woebegone. Shak.

3. Having no breath; extinct; dead. "The spiritless body." Greenhill.
 -- Spir"it*less*ly, adv.
 -- Spir"it*less*ness, n.

SPIRITOSO
Spi`ri*to"so, a. & adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Spirited; spiritedly; -- a direction to perform a passage in an
animated, lively manner.

SPIRITOUS
Spir"it*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. Spirituous.]

1. Like spirit; refined; defecated; pure. [R.]
More refined, more spirituous and pure. Milton.

2. Ardent; active. [R.]

SPIRITOUSNESS
Spir"it*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being spiritous. [R.]

SPIRITUAL
Spir"it*u*al, a. Etym: [L. spiritualis: cf. F. spirituel. See
Spirit.]

1. Consisting of spirit; not material; incorporeal; as, a spiritual
substance or being.
It is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. 1 Cor. xv.
44.

2. Of or pertaining to the intellectual and higher endowments of the
mind; mental; intellectual.

3. Of or pertaining to the moral feelings or states of the soul, as
distinguished from the external actions; reaching and affecting the
spirits.
God's law is spiritual; it is a transcript of the divine nature, and
extends its authority to the acts of the soul of man. Sir T. Browne.

4. Of or pertaining to the soul or its affections as influenced by
the Spirit; controlled and inspired by the divine Spirit; proceeding
from the Holy Spirit; pure; holy; divine; heavenly-minded; -- opposed
to carnal.
That I may impart unto you some spiritual gift. Rom. i. ll.
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath
blessed us with all spiritual blessings. Eph. i. 3.
If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore
such an one. Gal. vi. 1.

5. Not lay or temporal; relating to sacred things; ecclesiastical;
as, the spiritual functions of the clergy; lords spiritual and
temporal; a spiritual corporation. Spiritual coadjuctor. (Eccl.) See
the Note under Jesuit.
 -- Spiritual court (Eccl. Law), an ecclesiastical court, or a court
having jurisdiction in ecclesiastical affairs; a court held by a
bishop or other ecclesiastic.

SPIRITUAL
Spir"it*u*al, n.

Defn: A spiritual function, office, or affair. See Spirituality, 2.
He assigns supremacy to the pope in spirituals, and to the emperor in
temporals. Lowell.

SPIRITUALISM
Spir"it*u*al*ism, n.

1. The quality or state of being spiritual.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The doctrine, in opposition to the materialists, that all which
exists is spirit, or soul -- that what is called the external world
is either a succession of notions impressed on the mind by the Deity,
as maintained by Berkeley, or else the mere educt of the mind itself,
as taught by Fichte.

3. A belief that departed spirits hold intercourse with mortals by
means of physical phenomena, as by rappng, or during abnormal mental
states, as in trances, or the like, commonly manifested through a
person of special susceptibility, called a medium; spiritism; the
doctrines and practices of spiritualists.
What is called spiritualism should, I think, be called a mental
species of materialism. R. H. Hutton.

SPIRITUALIST
Spir"it*u*al*ist, n.

1. One who professes a regard for spiritual things only; one whose
employment is of a spiritual character; an ecclesiastic.

2. One who maintains the doctrine of spiritualism.

3. One who believes in direct intercourse with departed spirits,
through the agency of persons commonly called mediums, by means of
physical phenomena; one who attempts to maintain such intercourse; a
spiritist.

SPIRITUALIST
Spir"it*u*al*ist, a.

Defn: Spiritualistic. Taylor.

SPIRITUALISTIC
Spir`it*u*al*is"tic, a.

Defn: Relating to, or connected with, spiritualism.

SPIRITUALITY
Spir`it*u*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Spiritualities. Etym: [L. spiritualitas:
cf. F. spiritualite.]

1. The quality or state of being spiritual; incorporeality; heavenly-
mindedness.
A pleasure made for the soul, suitable to its spirituality. South.
If this light be not spiritual, yet it approacheth nearest to
spirituality. Sir W. Raleigh.
Much of our spirituality and comfort in public worship depends on the
state of mind in which we come. Bickersteth.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: That which belongs to the church, or to a person as an
ecclesiastic, or to religion, as distinct from temporalities.
During the vacancy of a see, the archbishop is guardian of the
spiritualities thereof. Blackstone.

3. An ecclesiastical body; the whole body of the clergy, as distinct
from, or opposed to, the temporality. [Obs.]
Five entire subsidies were granted to the king by the spirituality.
Fuller.

SPIRITUALIZATION
Spir`it*u*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of spiritualizing, or the state of being spiritualized.

SPIRITUALIZE
Spir"it*u*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spiritualized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Spiritualizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. spiritualiser.]

1. To refine intellectiually or morally; to purify from the
corrupting influence of the world; to give a spiritual character or
tendency to; as, to spiritualize soul.
This seen in the clear air, and the whole spiritualized by endless
recollections, fills the eye and the heart more forcibly than I can
find words to say. Carlyle.

2. To give a spiritual meaning to; to take in a spiritual sense; --
opposed to literalize.

3. (Old Chem.)

Defn: To extract spirit from; also, to convert into, or impregnate
with, spirit.

SPIRITUALIZER
Spir"it*u*al*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who spiritualizes.

SPIRITUALLY
Spir"it*u*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a spiritual manner; with purity of spirit; like a spirit.

SPIRITUAL-MINDED
Spir"it*u*al-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Having the mind set on spiritual things, or filled with holy
desires and affections.
 -- Spir"it*u*al-mind`ed*ness, n.

SPIRITUALNESS
Spir"it*u*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being spiritual or spiritual-minded;
spirituality.

SPIRITUALTY
Spir"it*u*al*ty, n. Etym: [See Spirituality.] (Eccl.)

Defn: An ecclesiastical body; a spirituality. Shak.

SPIRITUELLE
Spi`ri`tu`elle", a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Of the nature, or having the appearance, of a spirit; pure;
refined; ethereal.

SPIRITUOSITY
Spir`it*u*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being spirituous; spirituousness. [R.]

SPIRITUOUS
Spir"it*u*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. (for sense 2) F. spiritueux. Cf.
Spiritous.]

1. Having the quality of spirit; tenuous in substance, and having
active powers or properties; ethereal; immaterial; spiritual; pure.

2. Containing, or of the nature of, alcoholic (esp. distilled)
spirit; consisting of refined spirit; alcoholic; ardent; as,
spirituous liquors.

3. Lively; gay; vivid; airy. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.
The mind of man is of that spirituous, stirring nature, that it is
perpetually at work. South.

SPIRITUOUSNESS
Spir"it*u*ous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being spirituous. [R.] Boyle.

SPIRKETING
Spirk"et*ing, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The planking from the waterways up to the port sills. Totten.

SPIRLING
Spirl"ing, n.

Defn: Sparling. [Prov. Eng.]

SPIROBACTERIA
Spi`ro*bac*te"ri*a, n. pl.; sing. Spirobacterium (. Etym: [NL. See
4th Spire, and Bacterium.] (Biol.)

Defn: See the Note under Microbacteria.

SPIROCHAETA; SPIROCHAETE
Spi`ro*ch?"ta, Spi`ro*ch?"te, n. Etym: [L. spira a coil + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A genus of Spirobacteria similar to Spirillum, but
distinguished by its motility. One species, the Spiroch?te
Obermeyeri, is supposed to be the cause of relapsing fever.

SPIROGRAPH
Spi"ro*graph, n. Etym: [L. spirare to breathe + -graph.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for recording the respiratory movements, as the
sphygmograph does those of the pulse.

SPIROMETER
Spi*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. spirare to breathe + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the vital capacity of the lungs, or
the volume of air which can be expelled from the chest after the
deepest possible inspiration. Cf. Pneumatometer.

SPIROMETRY
Spi*rom"e*try, n.

Defn: The act or process of measuring the chest capacity by means of
a spirometer.

SPIROSCOPE
Spi"ro*scope, n. Etym: [L. spirare to breathe + -scope.] (Physiol.)

Defn: A wet meter used to determine the breathing capacity of the
lungs.

SPIROYLIC; SPIROYLOUS
Spi*royl"ic, Spi*royl"ous, a. Etym: [NL. Spir meadowsweet (a source
of salicylal) + -yl + -ic, -ous.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a substance now called
salicylal. [Obs.]

SPIRT
Spirt, v. & n.

Defn: Same as Spurt.

SPIRTLE
Spir"tle, v. t.

Defn: To spirt in a scattering manner.

SPIRULA
Spir"u*la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. spira a coil.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of cephalopods having a multilocular, internal,
siphunculated shell in the form of a flat spiral, the coils of which
are not in contact.

SPIRULATE
Spir"u*late, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the color spots, or structural parts, arranged spirally.

SPIRY
Spir"y, a. Etym: [From Spire a winding line.]

Defn: Of a spiral form; wreathed; curled; serpentine.
Hid in the spiry volumes of the snake. Dryden.

SPIRY
Spir"y, a. Etym: [FR. Spire a steeple.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a spire; like a spire, tall, slender, and
tapering; abounding in spires; as, spiry turrets. "Spiry towns."
Thomson.

SPISS
Spiss, a. Etym: [L. spissus.]

Defn: Thick; crowded; compact; dense. [Obs.]
This spiss and . . . copious, yet concise, treatise. Brerewood.

SPISSATED
Spis"sa*ted, a.

Defn: Rendered dense or compact, as by evaporation; inspissated;
thickened. [R.]
The spissated juice of the poppy. Bp. Warburton.

SPISSITUDE
Spis"si*tude, n. Etym: [L. spissitudo.]

Defn: The quality or state of being spissated; as, the spissitude of
coagulated blood, or of any coagulum. Arbuthnot.

SPIT
Spit, n. Etym: [OE. spite, AS. spitu; akin to D. spit, G. spiess,
OHG. spiz, Dan. spid. Sw. spett, and to G. spitz pointed. sq.
root170.]

1. A long, slender, pointed rod, usually of iron, for holding meat
while roasting.

2. A small point of land running into the sea, or a long, narrow
shoal extending from the shore into the sea; as, a spit of sand.
Cook.

3. The depth to which a spade goes in digging; a spade; a spadeful.
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SPIT
Spit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Spitting.] Etym:
[From Spit, n.; cf. Speet.]

1. To thrust a spit through; to fix upon a spit; hence, to thrust
through or impale; as, to spit a loin of veal. "Infants spitted upon
pikes." Shak.

2. To spade; to dig. [Prov. Eng.]

SPIT
Spit, v. i.

Defn: To attend to a spit; to use a spit. [Obs.]
She's spitting in the kitchen. Old Play.

SPIT
Spit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spit (Spat, archaic); p. pr. & vb. n.
Spitting.] Etym: [AS. spittan; akin to G. sputzen, Dan. spytte, Sw.
spotta,Icel. sp, and prob. E. spew. The past tense spat is due to AS.
sp, from sp to spit. Cf. Spat, n., Spew, Spawl, Spot, n.]

1. To eject from the mouth; to throw out, as saliva or other matter,
from the mouth. "Thus spit I out my venom." Chaucer.

2. To eject; to throw out; to belch.

Note: Spitted was sometimes used as the preterit and the past
participle. "He . . . shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and
spitted on." Luke xviii. 32.

SPIT
Spit, n.

Defn: The secretion formed by the glands of the mouth; spitle;
saliva; sputum.

SPIT
Spit, v. i.

1. To throw out saliva from the mouth.

2. To rain or snow slightly, or with sprinkles.
It had been spitting with rain. Dickens.
To spit on or upon, to insult grossly; to treat with contempt.
"Spitting upon all antiquity." South.

SPITAL
Spit"al, n. Etym: [Abbreviated from hospital.] [Written also
spittle.]

Defn: A hospital. [Obs.] Shak.

SPITALHOUSE
Spit"al*house`, n.

Defn: A hospital. [Obs.]

SPITBALL
Spit"ball`, n.

Defn: Paper chewed, and rolled into a ball, to be thrown as a
missile.

SPIT BALL
Spit ball. (Baseball)

Defn: A pitched ball in throwing which the pitcher grips the ball
between two, or three, fingers on one side (which is made slippery,
as by saliva) and the thumb on the other side, and delivers it so
that it slips off the fingers with the least possible friction. When
pitched directly overhand a spit ball darts downward, when pitched
with the arm extended sidewise it darts down and out. [Cant] -- Spit
baller.

SPITBOX
Spit"box`, n.

Defn: A vessel to receive spittle.

SPITCHCOCK
Spitch"cock`, v. t. Etym: [1st spit + cock.] (Cookery)

Defn: To split (as an eel) lengthwise, and broil it, or fry it in hot
fat.

SPITCHCOCK
Spitch"cock`, n. (Cookery)

Defn: An eel split and broiled.

SPITCHCOCKED
Spitch"cocked`, a. (Cookery)

Defn: Broiled or fried after being split lengthwise; -- said of eels.

SPIT CURL
Spit" curl`.

Defn: A little lock of hair, plastered in a spiral form on the temple
or forehead with spittle, or other adhesive substance. [Colloq.]

SPITE
Spite, n. Etym: [Abbreviated fr. despite.]

1. Ill-will or hatred toward another, accompanied with the
disposition to irritate, annoy, or thwart; petty malice; grudge;
rancor; despite. Pope.
This is the deadly spite that angers. Shak.

2. Vexation; chargrin; mortification. [R.] Shak. In spite of, or
Spite of, in opposition to all efforts of; in defiance or contempt
of; notwithstanding. "Continuing, spite of pain, to use a knee after
it had been slightly ibnjured." H. Spenser. "And saved me in spite of
the world, the devil, and myself." South. "In spite of all
applications, the patient grew worse every day." Arbuthnot. See Syn.
under Notwithstanding.
 -- To owe one a spite, to entertain a mean hatred for him.

Syn.
 -- Pique, rancor; malevolence; grudge.
 -- Spite, Malice. Malice has more reference to the disposition, and
spite to the manifestation of it in words and actions. It is,
therefore, meaner than malice, thought not always more criminal. "
Malice . . . is more frequently employed to express the dispositions
of inferior minds to execute every purpose of mischief within the
more limited circle of their abilities." Cogan. "Consider eke, that
spite availeth naught." Wyatt. See Pique.

SPITE
Spite, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spited; p. pr. & vb. n. Spiting.]

1. To be angry at; to hate. [Obs.]
The Danes, then . . . pagans, spited places of religion. Fuller.

2. To treat maliciously; to try to injure or thwart.

3. To fill with spite; to offend; to vex. [R.]
Darius, spited at the Magi, endeavored to abolish not only their
learning, but their language. Sir. W. Temple.

SPITEFUL
Spite"ful, a.

Defn: Filled with, or showing, spite; having a desire to vex, annoy,
or injure; malignant; malicious; as, a spiteful person or act. Shak.
 -- Spite"ful*ly, adv. Spite"ful*ness, n.

SPITFIRE
Spit"fire`, n.

Defn: A violent, irascible, or passionate person. [Colloq.] Grose.

SPITFUL
Spit"ful, n.; pl. Spitfuls (.

Defn: A spadeful. [Prov. Eng.]

SPITOUS
Spit"ous, a.

Defn: Having spite; spiteful. [Obs.]

SPITOUSLY
Spit"ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Spitefully. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SPITSCOCKED
Spits"cocked`, a.

Defn: Spitchcocked.

SPITTED
Spit"ted, a. Etym: [From Spit.]

1. Put upon a spit; pierced as if by a spit.

2. Shot out long; -- said of antlers. Bacon.

SPITTED
Spit"ted,

Defn: p. p. of Spit, v. i., to eject, to spit. [Obs.]

SPITTER
Spit"ter, n. Etym: [See Spit to eject from the mouth.]

Defn: One who ejects saliva from the mouth.

SPITTER
Spit"ter, n. Etym: [See Spit an iron prong.]

1. One who puts meat on a spit.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A young deer whose antlers begin to shoot or become sharp; a
brocket, or pricket.

SPITTLE
Spit"tle, n.

Defn: See Spital. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SPITTLE
Spit"tle, v. t. Etym: [See Spit to spade.]

Defn: To dig or stir with a small spade. [Prov. Eng.]

SPITTLE
Spit"tle, n.

Defn: A small sort of spade. [Prov. Eng.]

SPITTLE
Spit"tle, n. Etym: [From Spit to eject from the mouth: cf. Spattle,
and AS. spatl.]

Defn: The thick, moist matter which is secreted by the salivary
glands; saliva; spit. Spittle insect. (Zool.) See Cuckoo spit (b),
under Cuckoo.

SPITTLY
Spit"tly, a.

Defn: Like spittle; slimy. [Obs.]

SPITTOON
Spit*toon", n.

Defn: A spitbox; a cuspidor.

SPIT-VENOM
Spit"-ven"om, n.

Defn: Poison spittle; poison ejected from the mouth. [R.] Hooker.

SPITZ DOG
Spitz" dog". Etym: [G. spitz, spitzhund.] (Zool.)

Defn: A breed of dogs having erect ears and long silky hair, usually
white; -- called also Pomeranian dog, and louploup.

SPITZENBURGH
Spitz"en*burgh, n.

Defn: A kind of red and yellow apple, of medium size and spicy
flavor. It originated at Newtown, on Long Island.

SPLANCHNAPOPHYSIS
Splanch`napoph"y*sis, n.; pl. Splanchnapophyses. Etym: [NL. See
Splanchnic, and Apophysis.] (Anat.)

Defn: Any element of the skeleton in relation with the alimentary
canal, as the jaws and hyoidean apparatus.
 -- Splanch`nap`o*phys"i*al, a. Mivart.

SPLANCHNIC
Splanch"nic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the viscera; visceral.

SPLANCHNOGRAPHY
Splanch*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: Splanchnology.

SPLANCHNOLOGY
Splanch*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of the viscera; also, a
treatise on the viscera.

SPLANCHNOPLEURE
Splanch"no*pleure, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The inner, or visceral, one of the two lamell? into which the
vertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, and
from which the walls of the enteric canal and the umbilical vesicle
are developed. See Somatopleure.
 -- Splanch`no*pleu"ric, a.

SPLANCHNO-SKELETON
Splanch`no-skel"e*ton, n. Etym: [Gr. skeleton.] (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the skeleton connected with the sense organs and
the viscera. Owen.

SPLANCHNOTOMY
Splanch*not"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The dissection, or anatomy, of the viscera.

SPLANDREL
Splan"drel, n.

Defn: See Spandrel. [R.]

SPLASH
Splash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Splashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Splashing.]
Etym: [Akin to plash.]

1. To strike and dash about, as water, mud, etc.; to plash.

2. To spatter water, mud, etc., upon; to wet.

SPLASH
Splash, v. i.

Defn: To strike and dash about water, mud, etc.; to dash in such a
way as to spatter.

SPLASH
Splash, n.

1. Water, or water and dirt, thrown upon anything, or thrown from a
puddle or the like; also, a spot or daub, as of matter which wets or
disfigures.

2. A noise made by striking upon or in a liquid.

SPLASHBOARD
Splash"board`, n.

Defn: A guard in the front part of vehicle, to prevent splashing by a
mud or water from the horse's heels; -- in the United States commonly
called dashboard.

SPLASHER
Splash"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, splashes.

2. One of the guarde over the wheels, as of a carriage, locomotive,
etc. Weale.

3. A guard to keep off splashes from anything.

SPLASHY
Splash"y, a.

Defn: Full of dirty water; wet and muddy, so as be easily splashed
about; slushy.

SPLATTER
Splat"ter, v. i. & t.

Defn: To spatter; to splash.

SPLATTERDASH
Splat"ter*dash`, n .

Defn: Uproar. Jamieson.

SPLAY
Splay, v. t. Etym: [Abbrev. of display.]

1. To display; to spread. [Obs.] "Our ensigns splayed." Gascoigne.

2. To dislocate, as a shoulder bone.

3. To spay; to castrate. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

4. To turn on one side; to render oblique; to slope or slant, as the
side of a door, window, etc. Oxf. Gloss.

SPLAY
Splay, a.

Defn: Displayed; spread out; turned outward; hence, flat; ungainly;
as, splay shoulders.
Sonwthing splay, something blunt-edged, unhandy, and infelicitous. M.
Arnold.

SPLAY
Splay, a. (Arch.)

Defn: A slope or bevel, especially of the sides of a door or window,
by which the opening is made larged at one face of the wall than at
the other, or larger at each of the faces than it is between them.

SPLAYFOOT
Splay"foot`, n.; pl. Splayfeet (.

Defn: A foot that is abnormally flattened and spread out; flat foot.

SPLAYFOOT; SPLAYFOOTED
Splay"foot`, Splay"foot`ed a.

Defn: Having a splayfoot or splayfeet.

SPLAYMOUTH
Splay"mouth`, n.; pl. Splaymouths (.

Defn: A wide mouth; a mouth stretched in derision. Dryden.

SPLAYMOUTHED
Splay`mouthed", a.

Defn: Having a splaymouth. T. Brown.

SPLEEN
Spleen, n. Etym: [L. splen, Gr. lien, plihan, plihan.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A peculiar glandlike but ductless organ found near the stomach
or intestine of most vertebrates and connected with the vascular
system; the milt. Its exact function in not known.

2. Anger; latent spite; ill humor; malice; as, to vent one's spleen.
In noble minds some dregs remain, Not yet purged off, of spleen and
sour disdain. Pope.

3. A fit of anger; choler. Shak.

4. A sudden motion or action; a fit; a freak; a whim. [Obs. or R.]
A thousand spleens bear her a thousand ways. Shak.

5. Melancholy; hypochondriacal affections.
Bodies changed to various forms by spleen. Pope.
There is a luxury in self-dispraise: And inward self-disparagement
affords To meditative spleen a grateful feast. Wordsworth.

6. A fit of immoderate laughter or merriment. [Obs.]
Thy silly thought enforces my spleen. Shak.

SPLEEN
Spleen, v. t.

Defn: To dislke. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket.

SPLEENED
Spleened, a.

1. Deprived of the spleen.

2. Angered; annoyed. [Obs.] R. North.

SPLEENFUL
Spleen"ful, a.

Defn: Displaying, or affected with, spleen; angry; fretful;
melancholy.
Myself have calmed their spleenful mutiny. Shak.
Then rode Geraint, a little spleenful yet, Across the bridge that
spann'd the dry ravine. Tennyson.

SPLEENISH
Spleen"ish, a.

Defn: Spleeny; affected with spleen; fretful.
 -- Spleen"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Spleen"ish*ness, n.

SPLEENLESS
Spleen"less, a.

Defn: Having no spleen; hence, kind; gentle; mild. [Obs.] Chapman.

SPLEENWORT
Spleen"wort`, n. Etym: [Spleen + wort; cf. L. splenium, asplenium,
Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any fern of the genus Asplenium, some species of which were
anciently used as remedies for disorders of the spleen.

SPLEENY
Spleen"y, a.

1. Irritable; peevish; fretful.
Spleeny Lutheran, and not wholesome to Our cause. Shak.

2. Affected with nervous complaints; melancholy.

SPLEGET
Spleg"et, n. Etym: [Cf. Pledget.] (Med.)

Defn: A cloth dipped in a liquid for washing a sore. Crabb.

SPLENALGIA
Sple*nal"gi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Pain over the region of the spleen.

SPLENCULUS
Splen"cu*lus, n.; pl. Splenculi. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. splen.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A lienculus.

SPLENDENT
Splen"dent, a. Etym: [L. splendens, -entis, p. pr. of splendere to
shine.]

1. Shining; glossy; beaming with light; lustrous; as, splendent
planets; splendent metals. See the Note under 3d Luster, 4.

2. Very conspicuous; illustrious. "Great and splendent fortunes." Sir
H. Wotton.

SPLENDID
Splen"did, a. Etym: [L. splendidus, fr. splendere shine; cf. Lith.
splendeti: cf. F. splendide.]

1. Possessing or displaying splendor; shining; very bright; as, a
splendid sun.

2. Showy; magnificent; sumptuous; pompous; as, a splendid palace; a
splendid procession or pageant.

3. Illustrious; heroic; brilliant; celebrated; famous; as, a splendid
victory or reputation.

SPLENDIDIOUS
Splen*did"i*ous, a.

Defn: Splendid. [Obs.]

SPLENDIDLY
Splen"did*ly, adv.

Defn: In a splendid manner; magnificently.

SPLENDIDNESS
Splen"did*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being splendid.

SPLENDIDOUS
Splen"did*ous, a.

Defn: Splendid. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SPLENDIFEROUS
Splen*dif"er*ous, a.

Defn: Splendor-bearing; splendid. Bale (1538). "A splendiferous
woman." Haliburton. [Now used humorously.]

SPLENDOR
Splen"dor, n.Etym: [L. fr. splendere to shine: cf. F. splendeur.]

1. Great brightness; brilliant luster; brilliancy; as, the splendor
ot the sun. B. Jonson.

2. Magnifience; pomp; parade; as, the splendor of equipage,
ceremonies, processions, and the like. "Rejoice in splendor of mine
own." Shak.

3. Brilliancy; glory; as, the splendor of a victory.

Syn.
 -- Luster; brilliancy; magnifience; gorgeousness; display;
showiness; pomp; parade; grandeur.

SPLENDROUS; SPLENDOROUS
Splen"drous, Splen"dor*ous, a.

Defn: Splendid. Drayton.

SPLENETIC
Splen"e*tic, a. Etym: [L. spleneticus: cf. F. splenetique. See
Spleen.]

Defn: Affected with spleen; malicious; spiteful; peevish; fretful.
"Splenetic guffaw." G. Eliot.
You humor me when I am sick; Why not when I am splenetic Pope.

Syn.
 -- Morese; gloomy; sullen; peevish; fretful.

SPLENETIC
Splen"e*tic, n.

Defn: A person affected with spleen.

SPLENETICAL
Sple*net"ic*al, a.

Defn: Splenetic.

SPLENETICALLY
Sple*net"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a splenetical manner.

SPLENIAL
Sple"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. splenium a plaster, a patch, Gr. (Anat.)
(a) Designating the splenial bone.
(b) Of or pertaining to the splenial bone or splenius muscle.
Splenial bone (Anat.), a thin splintlike bone on the inner side of
the proximal portion of the mandible of many vertebrates.

SPLENIAL
Sple"ni*al, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The splenial bone.

SPLENIC
Splen"ic, a. Etym: [L. splenicus, Gr. splenique.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the spleen; lienal; as, the splenic vein.
Splenic apoplexy or fever. (Med.) See Anthrax, n., 3.

SPLENICAL
Splen"ic*al, a.

Defn: Splenic.

SPLENISH
Splen"ish, a.

Defn: Spleenish. [Obs.] Drayton.

SPLENITIS
Sple*ni"tis, n.Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the spleen.

SPLENITIVE
Splen"i*tive, a.

Defn: Splenetic. Shak.
Even and smooth as seemed the temperament of the nonchalant, languid
Virginian -- not splenitive or rash. T. N. Page.

SPLENIUM
Sple"ni*um, n.Etym: [L., a plaster, a patch, from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The thickened posterior border of the corpus callosum; -- so
called in allusion to its shape.

SPLENIUS
Sple"ni*us, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: A flat muscle of the back of the neck.

SPLENIZATION
Splen`i*za"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid state of the lung produced by inflammation, in which
its tissue resembles that of the spleen.

SPLENOCELE
Splen"o*cele, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Hernia formed by the spleen.

SPLENOGRAPHY
Sple*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of the spleen.

SPLENOID
Sple"noid, a.Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling the spleen; spleenlike.

SPLENOLOGY
Sple*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The branch of science which treats of the spleen.

SPLENOTOMY
Sple*not"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.
(a) (Anat.) Dissection or anatomy of the spleen.
(b) (Med.) An incision into the spleen; removal of the spleen by
incision.

SPLENT
Splent, n.

1. See Splent.

2. See Splent coal, below. Splent coal, an inferior kind of cannel
coal from Scotch collieries; -- called also splent, splint, and
splint coal.

SPLEUCHAN
Spleu"chan, n. Etym: [Gael. spliuchan.]

Defn: A pouch, as for tobacco. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

SPLICE
Splice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spliced; p. pr. & vb. n. Splicing.] Etym:
[D. splitsen, splitten; akin to G. splissen, Sw. splissa, Dan.
splisse, and E. split; -- from the dividing or splitting the ends
into separate strands. See Split, v. t.]

1. To unite, as two ropes, or parts of a rope, by a particular manner
of interweaving the strands, -- the union being between two ends, or
between an end and the body of a rope.

2. To unite, as spars, timbers, rails, etc., by lapping the two ends
together, or by applying a piece which laps upon the two ends, and
then binding, or in any way making fast.

3. To unite in marrige. [Slang] Splice grafting.ee under Grafting.
 -- To splice the main brace (Naut.), to give out, or drink, an extra
allowance of spirits on occasion of special exposure to wet or cold,
or to severe fatigue; hence, to take a dram.

SPLICE
Splice, n.

Defn: A junction or joining made by splicing.

SPLINE
Spline, n.

1. A rectangular piece fitting grooves like key seats in a hub and a
shaft, so that while the one may slide endwise on the other, both
must revolve together; a feather; also, sometimes, a groove to
receive such a rectangular piece.

2. A long, flexble piece of wood sometimes used as a ruler.

SPLINING
Splin"ing, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a spline. Splining machine, a machine tool
for cutting grooves, key seats, or slots; a slotting machine.

SPLINT
Splint, n. Etym: [Akin to D. splinter,G. splinter, splitter, Dan.
splint, Sw. splint a kind of spike, a forelock (in nautical use), Sw.
splintato splint, splinter, Dan. splinte, and E. split. See Split, v.
t., and cf. Splent.]

1. A piece split off; a splinter.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A thin piece of wood, or other substance, used to keep in
place, or protect, an injured part, especially a broken bone when
set.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: A splint bone.

4. (Far.)

Defn: A disease affecting the splint bones, as a callosity or hard
excrescence.

5. (Anc. Armor.)

Defn: One of the small plates of metal used in making splint armor.
See Splint armor, below.
The knees and feet were defended by splints, or thin plates of steel.
Sir. W. Scott.

6. Splint, or splent, coal. See Splent coal, under Splent. Splint
armor,a kind of ancient armor formed of thin plates of metal, usually
overlapping each other and allowing the limbs to move freely.
 -- Splint bone (Anat.), one of the rudimentary, splintlike
metacarpal or metatarsal bones on either side of the cannon bone in
the limbs of the horse and allied animals.
 -- Splint coal. See Splent coal, under Splent.

SPLINT
Splint, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Splinted; p. pr. & vb. n. Splinting.]

Defn: To split into splints, or thin, slender pieces; to splinter; to
shiver. [Obs. or R.] Florio.

2. To fasten or confine with splints, as a broken limb. See Splint,
n., 2. [R.] Shak.

SPLINTER
Splin"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Splintered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Splintering.] Etym: [Cf. LG. splittern, splinteren. See Splint, n.,
Split.]

1. To split or rend into long, thin pieces; to shiver; as, the
lightning splinters a tree.
After splintering their lances, they wheeled about, and . . .
abandoned the field to the enemy. Prescott.

2. To fasten or confine with splinters, or splints, as a broken limb.
Bp. Wren.

SPLINTER
Splin"ter, v. i.

Defn: To become split into long pieces.

SPLINTER
Splin"ter, n. Etym: [See Splinter, v., or Splint, n.]

Defn: A thin piece split or rent off lengthwise, as from wood, bone,
or other solid substance; a thin piece; a sliver; as, splinters of a
ship's mast rent off by a shot.

Splinter bar. (a) A crossbar in a coach, which supports the springs.
(b) The bar to which the traces are attached; a roller bolt; a
whiffletree.

SPLINTERPROOF
Splin"ter*proof` (splin"ter*proof`), a. (Mil.)

Defn: Proof against the splinters, or fragments, of bursting shells.

SPLINTERY
Splin"ter*y (-y), a.

Defn: Consisting of splinters; resembling splinters; as, the
splintery fracture of a mineral.

SPLIT
Split (split), v. t. [imp. & p. p. Split (Splitted, R.); p. pr. & vb.
n. Splitting.] Etym: [Probably of Scand. or Low german origin; cf.
Dan. splitte, LG. splitten, OD. splitten, spletten, D. splijten, G.
spleissen, MHG. splizen. Cf. Splice, Splint, Splinter.]

1. To divide lengthwise; to separate from end to end, esp. by force;
to divide in the direction of the grain layers; to rive; to cleave;
as, to split a piece of timber or a board; to split a gem; to split a
sheepskin.
Cold winter split the rocks in twain. Dryden.

2. To burst; to rupture; to rend; to tear asunder.
A huge vessel of exceeding hard marble split asunder by congealed
water. Boyle.

3. To divide or break up into parts or divisions, as by discord; to
separate into parts or parties, as a political party; to disunite.
[Colloq.] South.

4. (Chem.)

Defn: To divide or separate into components; -- often used with up;
as, to split up sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid. To split hairs,
to make distinctions of useless nicety.

SPLIT
Split, v. i.

1. To part asunder; to be rent; to burst; as, vessels split by the
freezing of water in them.

2. To be broken; to be dashed to pieces.
The ship splits on the rock. Shak.

3. To separate into parties or factions. [Colloq.]

4. To burst with laughter. [Colloq.]
Each had a gravity would make you split. Pope.

5. To divulge a secret; to betray confidence; to peach. [Slang]
Thackeray. To split on a rock, to err fatally; to have the hopes and
designs frustrated.

SPLIT
Split, n.

Defn: A crack, or longitudinl fissure.

2. A breach or separation, as in a political party; a division.
[Colloq.]

3. A piece that is split off, or made thin, by splitting; a splinter;
a fragment.

4. Specif (Leather Manuf.), one of the sections of a skin made by
dividing it into two or more thicknesses.

5. (Faro)

Defn: A division of a stake happening when two cards of the kind on
which the stake is laid are dealt in the same turn.

SPLIT
Split, a.

1. Divided; cleft.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Divided deeply; cleft. Split pease, hulled pease split for
making soup, etc.
 -- Split pin (Mach.), a pin with one end split so that it may be
spread open to secure it in its place.
 -- Split pulley, a parting pulley. See under Pulley.
 -- Split ring, a ring with overlapped or interlocked ends which may
be sprung apart so that objects, as keys, may be strung upon the ring
or removed from it.
 -- Split ticket, a ballot containing the names of only a portion of
the candidates regularly nominated by one party, other names being
substituted for those omitted. [U.S.]

SPLIT DYNAMOMETER
Split dynamometer. (Elec.)

Defn: An electric dynamometer having two coils so arranged that one
carries the primary current, and the other the secondary current, of
a transformer.

SPLITFEET
Split"feet`, n. pl. (Zool.)

Defn: The Fissipedia.

SPLIT INFINITIVE
Split infinitive. (Gram.)

Defn: A simple infinitive with to, having a modifier between the verb
and the to; as in, to largely decrease. Called also cleft infinitive.

SPLIT KEY
Split key. (Mach.)

Defn: A key split at one end like a split pin, for the same purpose.

SPLIT SHOT; SPLIT STROKE
Split shot or stroke .

Defn: In croquet, etc., a shot or stroke in which one drives in
different directions one's own and the opponent's ball placed in
contact.

SPLIT STITCH
Split stitch.

Defn: A stitch used in stem work to produce a fine line, much used in
old church embroidery to work the hands and faces of figures.

SPLIT STUFF
Split stuff.

Defn: Timber sawn into lengths and then split.

SPLIT SWITCH
Split switch. (Railroading)

Defn: = Point switch.

SPLIT-TAIL
Split"-tail`, n. (Zool.)
(a) A california market fish (Pogonichthys macrolepidotus) belonging
to the Carp family.
(b) The pintail duck.

SPLITTER
Split"ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, splits.

SPLIT-TONGUED
Split"-tongued`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a forked tongue, as that of snakes and some lizards.

SPLIT WHEEL
Split wheel.

Defn: = Split pulley.

SPLOTCH
Splotch, n. Etym: [Cf. Splash.]

Defn: A spot; a stain; a daub. R. Browning.

SPLOTCHY
Splotch"y, a.

Defn: Covered or marked with splotches.

SPLURGE
Splurge, n.

Defn: A blustering demonstration, or great effort; a great display.
[Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.

SPLURGE
Splurge, v. i.

Defn: To make a great display in any way, especially in oratory.
[Slang, U.S.] splurge on a new hi-fi system.

SPLUTTER
Splut"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Spluttered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Spluttering.] Etym: [Prov. E. splutter, eqivalent to sputter. Cf.
Sputter.]

Defn: To speak hastily and confusedly; to sputter. [Colloq.]
Carleton.

SPLUTTER
Splut"ter, n.

Defn: A confused noise, as of hasty speaking. [Colloq.]

SPLUTTERER
Splut"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who splutters.

SPODOMANCY
Spod"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. spodo`s ashes + -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by means of ashes.

SPODOMANTIC
Spod`o*man"tic, a.

Defn: Relating to spodomancy, or divination by means of ashes. C.
Kingsley.

SPODUMENE
Spod"u*mene, n. Etym: [Gr. spodo`s ashes; cf. F. spodumene.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a white to yellowish, purplish, or emerald-green
color, occuring in prismatic crystals, often of great size. It is a
silicate of aluminia and lithia. See Hiddenite.

SPOFFISH
Spof"fish, a. Etym: [probably from Prov. E. spoffle to be spoffish.]

Defn: Earnest and active in matters of no moment; bustling. [Colloq.
Eng.] Dickens.

SPOIL
Spoil (, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spoiled or Spoilt; p. pr. & vb. n.
Spoiling.] Etym: [F. spolier, OF. espoilelier, fr. L. spoliare, fr.
spolium spoil. Cf. Despoil, Spoliation.]

1. To plunder; to strip by violence; to pillage; to rob; -- with of
before the name of the thing taken; as, to spoil one of his goods or
possession. "Ye shall spoil the Egyptians." Ex. iii. 22.
My sons their old, unhappy sire despise, Spoiled of his kingdom, and
deprived of eues. Pope.

2. To seize by violence;; to take by force; to plunder.
No man can enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods,
except he will first bind the strong man. Mark iii. 27.

3. To cause to decay and perish; to corrput; to vitiate; to mar.
Spiritual pride spils many graces. Jer. Taylor.

4. To render useless by injury; to injure fatally; to ruin; to
destroy; as, to spoil paper; to have the crops spoiled by insects; to
spoil the eyes by reading.

SPOIL
Spoil, v. i.

1. To practice plunder or robbery.
Outlaws, which, lurking in woods, used to break forth to rob and
spoil. Spenser.

2. To lose the valuable qualities; to be corrupted; to decay; as,
fruit will soon spoil in warm weather.

SPOIL
Spoil, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. espoille, L. spolium.]

1. That which is taken from another by violence; especially, the
plunder taken from an enemy; pillage; booty.
Gentle gales, Fanning their odoriferous wings, dispense Native
perfumes, and whisper whence they stole Those balmy spoils. Milton.

2. Public offices and their emoluments regarded as the peculiar
property of a successful party or faction, to be bestowed for its own
advantage; -- commonly in the plural; as to the victor belong the
spoils.
From a principle of gratitude I adhered to the coalition; my vote was
counted in the day of battle, but I was overlooked in the division of
the spoil. Gibbon.

3. That which is gained by strength or effort.
each science and each art his spoil. Bentley.

4. The act or practice of plundering; robbery; aste.
The man that hath no music in himself, Nor is not moved with concord
of sweet sounds, Is fit for treason, stratagems, and spoil. Shak.

5. Corruption; cause of corruption. [Archaic]
Villainous company hath been the spoil of me. Shak.

6. The slough, or cast skin, of a serpent or other animal. [Obs.]
Bacon. Spoil bank, a bank formed by the earth taken from an
excavation, as of a canal.
 -- The spoils system, the theory or practice of regarding public and
their emoluments as so much plunder to be distributed among their
active partisans by those who are chosen to responsible offices of
administration.

SPOILABLE
Spoil"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being spoiled.

SPOILER
Spoil"er, n.

1. One who spoils; a plunderer; a pillager; a robber; a despoiler.

2. One who corrupts, mars, or renders useless.

SPOILFIVE
Spoil"five`, n.

Defn: A certain game at cards in which, if no player wins three of
the five tricks possible on any deal, the game is said to be spoiled.

SPOILFUL
Spoil"ful, a.

Defn: Wasteful; rapacious. [Poetic]

SPOILSMAN
Spoils"man, n.; pl. Spoilsmen (.

Defn: One who serves a cause or a party for a share of the spoils; in
United States politics, one who makes or recognizes a demand for
public office on the ground of partisan service; also, one who
sanctions such a policy in appointments to the public service.

SPOILSMONGER
Spoils"mon`ger, n.

Defn: One who promises or distributes public offices and their
emoluments as the price of services to a party or its leaders.

SPOKE
Spoke,

Defn: imp. of Speak.

SPOKE
Spoke, n. Etym: [OE. spoke, spake, AS, spaca; akin to D. speek, LG.
speke, OHG. speihha, G. speiche. sq. root170. Cf. Spike a nail.]

1. The radius or ray of a wheel; one of the small bars which are
inserted in the hub, or nave, and which serve to support the rim or
felly.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A projecting handle of a steering wheel.

3. A rung, or round, of a ladder.

4. A contrivance for fastening the wheel of a vehicle, to prevent it
from turning in going down a hill. To put a spoke in one's wheel, to
thwart or obstruct one in the execution of some design.

SPOKE
Spoke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spoked; p. pr. & vb. n. Spoking.]

Defn: To furnish with spokes, as a wheel.

SPOKEN
Spo"ken, a. Etym: [p.p. of Speak.]

1. Uttered in speech; delivered by word of mouth; oral; as, a spoken
narrative; the spoken word.

2. Characterized by a certain manner or style in speaking; -- often
in composition; as, a pleasant-spoken man.
Methinks you 're better spoken. Shak.

SPOKESHAVE
Spoke"shave`, n.

Defn: A kind of drawing knife or planing tool for dressing the spokes
of wheels, the shells of blocks, and other curved work.

SPOKESMAN
Spokes"man, n.; pl. Spokesmen. Etym: [Speak, spoke + man.]

Defn: One who speaks for another.
He shall be thy spokesman unto the people. Ex. iv. 16.

SPOLIATE
Spo"li*ate, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Spoliated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Spoliating.] Etym: [L. spoliatus, p.p. of spoliare spoil. See Spoil,
v. t.]

Defn: To plunder; to pillage; to despoil; to rob.

SPOLIATION
Spo`li*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. spoliatio; cf. F. spoliation. See Spoil,
v. t.]

1. The act of plundering; robbery; deprivation; despoliation.
Legal spoliation, which will impoverish one part of the community in
order to corrupt the remainder. Sir G. C. Lewis.

2. Robbery or plunder in war; especially, the authorized act or
practice of plundering neutrals at sea.

3. (Eccl. Law)
(a) The act of an incumbent in taking the fruits of his benefice
without right, but under a pretended title. Blackstone.
(b) A process for possession of a church in a spiritual court.

4. (Law)

Defn: Injury done to a document.

SPOLIATIVE
Spo"li*a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. spoliatif.]

Defn: Serving to take away, diminish, or rob; esp. (Med.), serving to
diminish sensibily the amount of blood in the body; as, spoliative
bloodletting.

SPOLIATOR
Spo"li*a`tor, n.

Defn: One who spoliates; a spoiler.

SPOLIATORY
Spo"li*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Tending to spoil; destructive; spoliative.

SPONDAIC; SPONDAICAL
Spon*da"ic, Spon*da"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. spondaicus, spondiacus, Gr.
spondaique.]

1. Or of pertaining to a spondee; consisting of spondees.

2. Containing spondees in excess; marked by spondees; as, a spondaic
hexameter, i. e., one which has a spondee instead of a dactyl in the
fifth foot.

SPONDEE
Spon"dee, n. Etym: [L. spondeus, Gr. spondee. So called because at
libations slow, solemn melodies were used, chiefly in this meter.]
(pros.)

Defn: A poetic foot of two long syllables, as in the Latin word
leges.

SPONDULICS
Spon*du"lics, n.

Defn: Money. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.

SPONDYL; SPONDYLE
Spon"dyl, Spon"dyle, n. Etym: [L. spondylus, Gr. spondyle.] (Anat.)

Defn: A joint of the backbone; a vertebra.

SPONG
Spong, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: An irregular, narrow, projecting part of a field. [Prov. Eng.]

SPONGE
Sponge, n. Etym: [OF. esponge, F. eponge, L. spongia, Gr. Fungus,
Spunk.] [Formerly written also spunge.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Spongi?, or Porifera. See
Illust. and Note under Spongi?.

2. The elastic fibrous skeleton of many species of horny Spongi?
(keratosa), used for many purposes, especially the varieties of the
genus Spongia. The most valuable sponges are found in the
Mediterranean and the Red Sea, and on the coasts of Florida and the
West Indies.

3. Fig.: One who lives upon others; a pertinaceous and indolent
dependent; a parasite; a sponger.

4. Any spongelike substance. Specifically:
(a) Dough before it is kneaded and formed into loaves, and after it
is converted into a light, spongy mass by the agency of the yeast or
leaven.
(b) Iron from the puddling furnace, in a pasty condition.
(c) Iron ore, in masses, reduced but not melted or worked.

5. (Gun.)

Defn: A mop for cleaning the bore of a cannon after a discharge. It
consists of a cylinder of wood, covered with sheepskin with the wool
on, or cloth with a heavy looped nap, and having a handle, or staff.

6. (Far.)

Defn: The extremity, or point, of a horseshoe, answering to the heel.
Bath sponge, any one of several varieties of coarse commercial
sponges, especially Spongia equina.
 -- Cup sponge, a toilet sponge growing in a cup-shaped form.
 -- Glass sponge. See Glass-sponge, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Glove sponge, a variety of commercial sponge (Spongia
officinalis, variety tubulufera), having very fine fibers, native of
Florida, and the West Indies.
 -- Grass sponge, any one of several varieties of coarse commercial
sponges having the surface irregularly tufted, as Spongia graminea,
and S. equina, variety cerebriformis, of Florida and the West Indies.
 -- Horse sponge, a coarse commercial sponge, especially Spongia
equina.
 -- Platinum sponge. (Chem.) See under Platinum.
 -- Pyrotechnical sponge, a substance made of mushrooms or fungi,
which are boiled in water, dried, and beaten, then put in a strong
lye prepared with saltpeter, and again dried in an oven. This makes
the black match, or tinder, brought from Germany.
 -- Sheep's-wool sponge, a fine and durable commercial sponge
(Spongia equina, variety gossypina) found in Florida and the West
Indies. The surface is covered with larger and smaller tufts, having
the oscula between them.
 -- Sponge cake, a kind of sweet cake which is light and spongy.
 -- Sponge lead, or Spongy lead (Chem.), metallic lead brought to a
spongy form by reduction of lead salts, or by compressing finely
divided lead; -- used in secondary batteries and otherwise.
 -- Sponge tree (Bot.), a tropical leguminous tree (Acacia
Farnesiana), with deliciously fragrant flowers, which are used in
perfumery.
 -- Toilet sponge, a very fine and superior variety of Mediterranean
sponge (Spongia officinalis, variety Mediterranea); -- called also
turkish sponge.
 -- To set a sponge (Cookery), to leaven a small mass of flour, to be
used in leavening a larger quantity.
 -- To throw up the sponge, to give up a contest; to acknowledge
defeat; -- from a custom of the prize ring, the person employed to
sponge a pugilist between rounds throwing his sponge in the air in
token of defeat. [Cant or Slang] "He was too brave a man to throw up
the sponge to fate." Lowell.
 -- Vegetable sponge. (Bot.) See Loof.
 -- Velvet sponge, a fine, soft commercial sponge (Spongia equina,
variety meandriniformis) found in Florida and the West Indies.
 -- Vitreous sponge. See Glass-sponge.
 -- Yellow sponge, a common and valuable commercial sponge (Spongia
agaricina, variety corlosia) found in Florida and the West Indies.

SPONGE
Sponge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sponged; p. pr. & vb. n. Sponging.]

1. To cleanse or wipe with a sponge; as, to sponge a slate or a
cannon; to wet with a sponge; as, to sponge cloth.

2. To wipe out with a sponge, as letters or writing; to efface; to
destroy all trace of. Hooker.

3. Fig.: To deprive of something by imposition. "How came such
multitudes of our nation . . . to be sponged of their plate and their
money" South.

4. Fig.: To get by imposition or mean arts without cost; as, to
sponge a breakfast. Swift.

SPONGE
Sponge, v. i.

1. To suck in, or imbile, as a sponge.

2. Fig.: To gain by mean arts, by intrusion, or hanging on; as, an
idler sponges on his neighbor. E. Eggleston.
The fly is an intruder, and a common smell-feast, that sponges upon
other people's trenchers. L'Estrange.

3. To be converted, as dough, into a light, spongy mass by the agency
of yeast, or leaven.

SPONGELET
Sponge"let, n.

Defn: See Spongiole.

SPONGEOUS
Spon"geous, a. Etym: [See Spongious.]

Defn: Resembling sponge; having the nature or qualities of sponge.

SPONGER
Spon"ger, n.

1. One who sponges, or uses a sponge.

2. One employed in gathering sponges.

3. Fig.: A parasitical dependent; a hanger-on.

SPONGIAE
Spon"gi*?, n. pl. Etym: [See Sponge.] (Zool.)

Defn: The grand division of the animal kingdom which includes the
sponges; -- called also Spongida, Spongiaria, Spongiozoa, and
Porifera.

Note: In the Spongi?, the soft sarcode of the body is usually
supported by a skeleton consisting of horny fibers, or of silleceous
or calcareous spicules. The common sponges contain larger and smaller
cavities and canals, and numerous small ampull? which which are lined
with ciliated cells capable of taking in solid food. The outer
surface usually has minute pores through which water enters, and
large openings for its exit. Sponges produce eggs and spermatozoa,
and the egg when fertilized undergoes segmentation to form a ciliated
embryo.

SPONGIDA
Spon"gi*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Spongi?.

SPONGIFORM
Spon"gi*form, a.

Defn: Resembling a sponge; soft and porous; porous.

SPONGILLA
Spon*gil"la, n. Etym: [NL., dim. of spongia a sponge.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of siliceous spongea found in fresh water.

SPONGIN
Spon"gin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: The chemical basis of sponge tissue, a nitrogenous, hornlike
substance which on decomposition with sulphuric acid yields leucin
and glycocoll.

SPONGINESS
Spon"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being spongy. Dr. H. More.

SPONGING
Spon"ging,

Defn: a. & n. from Sponge, v. Sponging house (Eng. Law), a bailiff's
or other house in which debtors are put before being taken to jail,
or until they compromise with their creditors. At these houses
extortionate charges are commonly made for food, lodging, etc.

SPONGIOLE
Spon"gi*ole, n. Etym: [L. spongiola a rose gall, small roots, dim. of
spongia: cf. F. spongiole.] (Bot.)

Defn: A supposed spongelike expansion of the tip of a rootlet for
absorbing water; -- called also spongelet.

SPONGIOLITE
Spon"gi*o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: One of the microsporic siliceous spicules which occur
abundantly in the texture of sponges, and are sometimes found fossil,
as in flints.

SPONGIOPILIN
Spon`gi*o*pi"lin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A kind of cloth interwoven with small pieces of sponge and
rendered waterproof on one side by a covering of rubber. When
moistend with hot water it is used as a poultice.

SPONGIOSE; SPONGIOUS
Spon"gi*ose`, Spon"gi*ous, a. Etym: [L. spongious, spongeosus: cf. F.
spongieux. See Sponge.]

Defn: Somewhat spongy; spongelike; full of small cavities like
sponge; as, spongious bones.

SPONGIOZOA
Spon`gi*o*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: See Spongl?.

SPONGOBLAST
Spon"go*blast, n. Etym: [Gr. -blast.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of the cells which, in sponges, secrete the spongin, or the
material of the horny fibers.

SPONGOID
Spon"goid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid.]

Defn: Resembling sponge; like sponge.

SPONGY
Spon"gy, a.

1. Soft, and full of cavities; of an open, loose, pliable texture;
as, a spongy excrescence; spongy earth; spongy cake; spongy bones.

2. Wet; drenched; soaked and soft, like sponge; rainy. "Spongy
April." Shak.

3. Having the quality of imbibing fluids, like a sponge. Spongy lead
(Chem.), sponge lead. See under Sponge.
 -- Spongy platinum. See under Platinum.

SPONK
Sponk, n.

Defn: See Spunk.

SPONSAL
Spon"sal, a. Etym: [L. sponsalis, fr. sponsus a betrothal, fr.
spondere, sponsum, to betroth. See Spouse, and cf. Esousal, Spousal.]

Defn: Relating to marriage, or to a spouse; spousal.

SPONSIBLE
Spon"si*ble, a. Etym: [Abbrev. from responsible.]

Defn: responsible; worthy of credit. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SPONSION
Spon"sion, n. Etym: [L. sonsio, fr. spondere, sponsum, to promise
solemnly.]

1. The act of becoming surety for another.

2. (Internat. Law)

Defn: An act or engagement on behalf of a state, by an agent not
specially authorized for the purpose, or by one who exceeds the
limits of authority.

SPONSIONAL
Spon"sion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a pledge or agreement; responsible. [R.]
He is righteous even in that representative and sponsional person he
put on. Abp. Leighton.

SPONSON
Spon"son, n. (Shipbuilding)
(a) One of the triangular platforms in front of, and abaft, the
paddle boxes of a steamboat.
(b) One of the slanting supports under the guards of a steamboat.
(c) One of the armored projections fitted with gun ports, used on
modern war vessels.

SPONSOR
Spon"sor, n. Etym: [L., from spondere, sponsum, to engage one's self.
See Spose.]

1. One who binds himself to answer for another, and is responsible
for his default; a surety.

2. One who at the baptism of an infant professore the christian faith
in its name, and guarantees its religious education; a godfather or
godmother.

SPONSORIAL
Spon*so"ri*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a sponsor.

SPONSORSHIP
Spon"sor*ship, n.

Defn: State of being a sponsor.

SPONTANEITY
Spon`ta*ne"i*ty, n.; pl. Spontaneities. Etym: [Cf. F. spontaneite.]

1. The quality or state of being spontaneous, or acting from native
feeling, proneness, or temperament, without constraint or external
force.
Romney Leigh, who lives by diagrams, And crosses not the
spontaneities Of all his individual, personal life With formal
universals. Mrs. Browning.

2. (Biol.)
(a) The tendency to undergo change, characteristic of both animal and
vegetable organisms, and not restrained or cheked by the environment.
(b) The tendency to activity of muscular tissue, including the
voluntary muscles, when in a state of healthful vigor and
refreshment.

SPONTANEOUS
Spon*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. spontaneus, fr. sponte of free will,
voluntarily.]

1. Proceding from natural feeling, temperament, or disposition, or
from a native internal proneness, readiness, or tendency, without
constraint; as, a spontaneous gift or proportion.

2. Proceeding from, or acting by, internal impulse, energy, or
natural law, without external force; as, spontaneous motion;
spontaneous growth.

3. Produced without being planted, or without human labor; as, a
spontaneous growth of wood. Spontaneous combustion, combustion
produced in a substance by the evolution of heat through the chemical
action of its own elements; as, the spontaneous combustion of waste
matter saturated with oil.
 -- Spontaneous generation. (Biol.) See under Generation.

Syn.
 -- Voluntary; uncompelled; willing.
 -- Spontaneous, Voluntary. What is voluntary is the result of a
volition, or act of choice; it therefore implies some degree of
consideration, and may be the result of mere reason without excited
feeling. What is spontaneous springs wholly from feeling, or a sudden
impulse which admits of no reflection; as, a spontaneous burst of
applause. Hence, the term is also applied to things inanimate when
they are produced without the determinate purpose or care of man.
"Abstinence which is but voluntary fasting, and . . . exercise which
is but voluntary labor." J. Seed.
Spontaneous joys, where nature has its play, The soul adopts, and
owns their firstborn away. Goldsmith.
-- Spon*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Spon*ta"ne*ous*ness, n.

SPONTOON
Spon*toon", n. Etym: [F. sponton, esponton, it. spontone, spuntone.]
(Mil.)

Defn: A kind of half-pike, or halberd, formerly borne by inferior
officers of the British infantry, and used in giving signals to the
soldiers.

SPOOK
Spook, n. Etym: [D. spook; akin to G. spuk, Sw. spoke, Dan. spogelse
a specter, spoge to play, sport, joke, spog a play, joke.]

1. A spirit; a ghost; an apparition; a hobgoblin. [Written also
spuke.] Ld. Lytton.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The chim?ra.

SPOOL
Spool, n. Etym: [OE. spole, OD. spoele, D. spoel; akin to G. spule,
OHG. spuola, Dan. & Sw. spole.]

Defn: A piece of cane or red with a knot at each end, or a hollow
cylinder of wood with a ridge at each end, used to wind thread or
yarn upon. Spool stand, an article holding spools of thread, turning
on pins, -- used by women at their work.

SPOOL
Spool, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spooled; p. pr. & vb. n. Spooling.]

Defn: To wind on a spool or spools.

SPOOLER
Spool"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, spools.

SPOOM
Spoom, v. i. Etym: [Probably fr. spum foam. See Spume.] (Naut.)

Defn: To be driven steadily and swiftly, as before a strong wind; to
be driven before the wind without any sail, or with only a part of
the sails spread; to scud under bare poles. [Written also spoon.]
When virtue spooms before a prosperous gale, My heaving wishes help
to fill the sail. Dryden.

SPOON
Spoon, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: See Spoom. [Obs.]
We might have spooned before the wind as well as they. Pepys.

SPOON
Spoon, n. Etym: [OE. spon, AS. sp, a chip; akin to D. spaan, G. span,
Dan. spaan, Sw. span, Icel. spann, sponn, a chip, a spoon. sq.
root170. Cf. Span-new.]

1. An implement consisting of a small bowl (usually a shallow oval)
with a handle, used especially in preparing or eating food.
"Therefore behoveth him a full long spoon That shall eat with a
fiend," thus heard I say. Chaucer.
He must have a long spoon that must eat with the devil. Shak.

2. Anything which resembles a spoon in shape; esp. (Fishing), a spoon
bait.

3. Fig.: A simpleton; a spooney. [Slang] Hood. Spoon bait (Fishing),
a lure used in trolling, consisting of a glistening metallic plate
shaped like the bowl of a spoon with a fishhook attached.
 -- Spoon bit, a bit for boring, hollowed or furrowed along one side.
 -- Spoon net, a net for landing fish.
 -- Spoon oar. see under Oar.

SPOON
Spoon, v. t.

Defn: To take up in, a spoon.

SPOON
Spoon, v. i.

Defn: To act with demonstrative or foolish fondness, as one in love.
[Colloq.]

SPOONBILL
Spoon"bill`, n. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of several species of wading birds of the genera Ajaja
and Platalea, and allied genera, in which the long bill is broadly
expanded and flattened at the tip.

Note: The roseate spoonbill of America (Ajaja ajaja), and the
European spoonbill (Platalea leucorodia) are the best known. The
royal spoonbill (P. regia) of Australia is white, with the skin in
front of the eyes naked and black. The male in the breeding season
has a fine crest.
(b) The shoveler. See Shoveler, 2.
(c) The ruddy duck. See under Ruddy.
(d) The paddlefish.

SPOON-BILLED
Spoon"-billed`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the bill expanded and spatulate at the end.

SPOONDRIFT
Spoon"drift, n. Etym: [Spoom + drift.]

Defn: Spray blown from the tops waves during a gale at sea; also,
snow driven in the wind at sea; -- written also spindrift.

SPOONEY
Spoon"ey, a.

Defn: Weak-minded; demonstratively fond; as, spooney lovers. [Spelt
also spoony.] [Colloq.]

SPOONEY
Spoon"ey, n.; pl. Spooneye (.

Defn: A weak-minded or silly person; one who is foolishly fond.
[Colloq.]
There is no doubt, whatever, that I was a lackadaisical young
spooney. Dickens.

SPOONFLOWER
Spoon"flow`er, n.

Defn: The yautia.

SPOONFUL
Spoon"ful, n.; pl. Spoonfuls (.

1. The quantity which a spoon contains, or is able to contain; as, a
teaspoonful; a tablespoonful.

2. Hence, a small quantity. Arbuthnot.

SPOONILY
Spoon"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a spoony manner.

SPOON-MEAT
Spoon"-meat`, n.

Defn: Food that is, or must be, taken with a spoon; liquid food.
"Diet most upon spoon-meats." Harvey.

SPOONWOOD
Spoon"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The mountain laurel (Kalmia latifolia).

SPOONWORM
Spoon"worm`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A gephyrean worm of the genus Thalassema, having a spoonlike
probiscis.

SPOONWORT
Spoon"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Scurvy grass.

SPOONY
Spoon"y, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Spooney.

SPOOR
Spoor, n. Etym: [D. spoor; akin to AS. spor, G. spur, and from the
root of E. spur. sq. root171. See Spur.]

Defn: The track or trail of any wild animal; as, the spoor of an
elephant; -- used originally by travelers in South Africa.

SPOOR
Spoor, v. i.

Defn: To follow a spoor or trail. [R.]

SPORADES
Spor"a*des, n. pl. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. spora`des. Cf. Sporadic.]
(Astron.)

Defn: Stars not included in any constellation; -- called also
informed, or unformed, stars.

SPORADIAL
Spo*ra"di*al, a.

Defn: Sporadic. [R.]

SPORADIC
Spo*rad"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. sporadique. See Spore.]

Defn: Occuring singly, or apart from other things of the same kind,
or in scattered instances; separate; single; as, a sporadic fireball;
a sporadic case of disease; a sporadic example of a flower. Sporadic
disease (Med.), a disease which occurs in single and scattered cases.
See the Note under Endemic, a.

SPORADICAL
Spo*rad"ic*al, a.

Defn: Sporadic.

SPORADICALLY
Spo*rad"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sporadic manner.

SPORANGIOPHORE
Spo*ran"gi*o*phore, n. Etym: [Sporangium + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The axis or receptacle in certain ferns (as Trichomanes), which
bears the sporangia.

SPORANGIUM
Spo*ran"gi*um, n.; pl. Sporangia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A spore case in the cryptogamous plants, as in ferns, etc.

SPORE
Spore, n. Etym: [Gr. Sperm.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) One of the minute grains in flowerless plants, which are
analogous to seeds, as serving to reproduce the species.

Note: Spores are produced differently in the different classes of
cryptogamous plants, and as regards their nature are often so unlike
that they have only their minuteness in common. The peculiar spores
of diatoms (called auxospores) increase in size, and at length
acquire a siliceous coating, thus becoming new diatoms of full size.
Compare Macrospore, Microspore, Oospore, Restingspore, Sph?rospore,
Swarmspore, Tetraspore, Zoospore, and Zygospore.
(b) An embryo sac or embryonal vesicle in the ovules of flowering
plants.

2. (Biol.)
(a) A minute grain or germ; a small, round or ovoid body, formed in
certain organisms, and by germination giving rise to a new organism;
as, the reproductive spores of bacteria, etc.
(b) One of the parts formed by fission in certain Protozoa. See Spore
formation, belw. Spore formation. (a) (Biol) A mode of reproduction
resembling multitude fission, common among Protozoa, in which the
organism breaks up into a number of pieces, or spores, each of which
eventually develops into an organism like the parent form. Balfour.
(b) The formation of reproductive cells or spores, as in the growth
of bacilli.

SPORID
Spo"rid, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A sporidium. Lindley.

SPORIDIFEROUS
Spo`ri*dif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Sporidium + -ferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing sporidia.

SPORIDIUM
Spo*rid"i*um, n.; pl. Sporidia. Etym: [NL. See Spore.] (Bot.)
(a) A secondary spore, or a filament produced from a spore, in
certain kinds of minute fungi.
(b) A spore.

SPORIFEROUS
Spo*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Spore + -ferous.] (Biol.)

Defn: Bearing or producing spores.

SPORIFICATION
Spo`ri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Spore + L. -ficare (in comp.) to make.
See -fy.] (Biol.)

Defn: Spore formation. See Spore formation (b), under Spore.

SPOROCARP
Spo"ro*carp, n. Etym: [Spore + Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A closed body or conceptacle containing one or more masses of
spores or sporangia.
(b) A sporangium.

SPOROCYST
Spo"ro*cyst, n. Etym: [Gr.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: An asexual zooid, usually forming one of a series of larval
forms in the agamic reproduction of various trematodes and other
parasitic worms. The sporocyst generally develops from an egg, but in
its turn produces other larv? by internal budding, or by the
subdivision of a part or all of its contents into a number of minute
germs. See Redia.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any protozoan when it becomes encysted produces germs by
sporulation.

SPOROGENESIS
Spo`ro*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Spore + genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: reproduction by spores.

SPOROGONY
Spo*rog"o*ny, n. Etym: [Spore + root of Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: The growth or development of an animal or a zooid from a
nonsexual germ.

SPOROPHORE
Spo"ro*phore, n. Etym: [Spore + Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A placenta.
(b) That alternately produced form of certain cryptogamous plants, as
ferns, mosses, and the like, which is nonsexual, but produces spores
in countless numbers. In ferns it is the leafy plant, in mosses the
capsule. Cf. Oophore.

SPOROPHORIC
Spo`ro*phor"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the nature of a sporophore.

SPOROPHYTE
Spo"ro*phyte, n.  [Spore + Gr.  plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: In plants exhibiting alternation of generations, the generation
which bears asexual spores; -- opposed to gametophyte. It is not
clearly differentiated in the life cycle of the lower plants. --
Spo`ro*phyt"ic (#), a.

SPOROSAC
Spo"ro*sac, n. Etym: [Spore + sac.] (Zool.)
(a) A hydrozoan reproductive zooid or gonophore which does not become
medusoid in form or structure. See Illust. under Athecata.
(b) An early or simple larval stage of trematode worms and some other
invertebrates, which is capable or reproducing other germs by asexual
generation; a nurse; a redia.

SPOROZOA
Spo`ro*zo"a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. a spore + (Zool.)

Defn: An extensive division of parasitic Protozoa, which increase by
sporulation. It includes the Gregarinida.

SPOROZOID
Spo`ro*zo"id, n. Etym: [Spore + Gr. .] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Zoospore.

SPOROZOITE
Spo`ro*zo"ite, n. (Zool.)

Defn: In certain Sporozoa, a small active, usually elongate, sickle-
shaped or somewhat amoboid spore, esp. one of those produced by
division of the passive spores into which the zygote divides. The
sporozoites reproduce asexually.

SPORRAN
Spor"ran, n. Etym: [Gael. sporan.]

Defn: A large purse or pouch made of skin with the hair or fur on,
worn in front of the kilt by Highlanders when in full dress.

SPORT
Sport, n. Etym: [Abbreviated frm disport.]

1. That which diverts, and makes mirth; pastime; amusement.
It is as sport a fool do mischief. prov. x. 23.
Her sports were such as carried riches of knowledge upon the stream
of delight. Sir P. Sidney.
Think it but a minute spent in sport. Shak.

2. Mock; mockery; contemptuous mirth; derision.
Then make sport at me; then let me be your jest.Shak.

3. That with which one plays, or which is driven about in play; a
toy; a plaything; an object of mockery.
Flitting leaves, the sport of every wind. Dryden.
Never does man appear to greater disadvantage than when he is the
sport of his own ungoverned pasions. John Clarke.

4. Play; idle jingle.
An author who should introduce such a sport of words upon our stage
would meet with small applause. Broome.

5. Diversion of the field, as fowling, hunting, fishing, racing,
games, and the like, esp. when money is staked.

6. (Bot. & Zool.)

Defn: A plant or an animal, or part of a plant or animal, which has
some peculiarity not usually seen in the species; an abnormal variety
or growth. See Sporting plant, under Sporting.

7. A sportsman; a gambler. [Slang] In sport, in jest; for play or
diversion. "So is the man that deceiveth his neighbor, and saith, Am
not I in sport" Prov. xxvi. 19.

Syn.
 -- Play; game; diversion; frolic; mirth; mock; mockery; jeer.

SPORT
Sport, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sported; p. pr. & vb. n. Sporting.]

1. To play; to frolic; to wanton.
[Fish], sporting with quick glance, Show to the sun their waved coats
dropt with gold. Milton.

2. To practice the diversions of the field or the turf; to be given
to betting, as upon races.

3. To trifle. "He sports with his own life." Tillotson.

4. (Bot. & Zool.)

Defn: To assume suddenly a new and different character from the rest
of the plant or from the type of the species; -- said of a bud,
shoot, plant, or animal. See Sport, n., 6. Darwin.

Syn.
 -- To play; frolic; game; wanton.

SPORT
Sport, v. t.

1. To divert; to amuse; to make merry; -- used with the reciprocal
pronoun.
Against whom do ye sport yourselves Isa. lvii. 4.

2. To represent by any knd of play.
Now sporting on thy lyre the loves of youth. Dryden.

3. To exhibit, or bring out, in public; to use or wear; as, to sport
a new equipage. [Colloq.] Grose.

4. To give utterance to in a sportive manner; to throw out in an easy
and copious manner; -- with off; as, to sport off epigrams. Addison.
To sport one's oak. See under Oak, n.

SPORTABILITY
Sport`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Sportiveness. [Obs.]

SPORTAL
Sport"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sports; used in sports. [R.] "Sportal
arms." Dryden.

SPORTER
Sport"er, n.

Defn: One who sports; a sportsman.
As this gentleman and I have been old fellow sporters, I have a
frienship for him. Goldsmith.

SPORTFUL
Sport"ful, a.

1. Full of sport; merry; frolicsome; full of jesting; indulging in
mirth or play; playful; wanton; as, a sportful companion.
Down he alights among the sportful herd. Milton.

2. Done in jest, or for mere play; sportive.
They are no sportful productions of the soil. Bentley.
-- Sport"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Sport"ful*ness, n.

SPORTING
Sport"ing, a.

Defn: Of pertaining to, or engaging in, sport or sporrts; exhibiting
the character or conduct of one who, or that which, sports. Sporting
book, a book containing a record of bets, gambling operations, and
the like. C. Kingsley.
 -- Sporting house, a house frequented by sportsmen, gamblers, and
the like.
 -- Sporting man, one who practices field sports; also, a horse
racer, a pugilist, a gambler, or the like.
 -- Sporting plant (Bot.), a plant in which a single bud or offset
suddenly assumes a new, and sometimes very different, character from
that of the rest of the plant. Darwin.

SPORTINGLY
Sport"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In sport; sportively.
The question you there put, you do it, I suppose, but sportingly.
Hammond.

SPORTIVE
Sport"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to, engaged in, or provocate of, sport; gay;
froliscome; playful; merry.
Is it I That drive thee from the sportive court Shak.
-- Sport"ive*ly, adv.
 -- Sport"ive*ness, n.

SPORTLESS
Sport"less, a.

Defn: Without sport or mirth; joyless.

SPORTLING
Sport"ling, n.

Defn: A little person or creature engaged in sports or in play.
When again the lambkins play --Pretty sportlings, full of May.
Philips.

SPORTSMAN
Sports"man, n.;pl. Sportsmen (.

Defn: One who pursues the sports of the field; one who hunts, fishes,
etc.

SPORTSMANSHIP
Sports"man*ship, n.

Defn: The practice of sportsmen; skill in field sports.

SPORTULA
Spor"tu*la, n.; pl. Sportul? (. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A gift; a present; a prize; hence, an alms; a largess.
To feed luxuriously, to frequent sports and theaters, to run for the
sportula. South.

SPORTULARY
Spor"tu*la*ry, a.

Defn: Subsisting on alms or charitable contributions. [Obs.] Bp.
Hall.

SPORTULE
Spor"tule, n. Etym: [L. sportula a little basket, a gift, dim. of
sporta a basket: cf. F. sortule.]

Defn: A charitable gift or contribution; a gift; an alms; a dole; a
largess; a sportula. [Obs.] Ayliffe.

SPORULATION
Spor`u*la"tion, n. (Biol.)

Defn: The act or process of forming spores; spore formation. See
Illust. of Bacillus, b.

SPORULE
Spor"ule, n. Etym: [Dim. of spore.] (Biol.)

Defn: A small spore; a spore.

SPORULIFEROUS
Spor`u*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Sporule + -ferous.] (Biol.)

Defn: Producing sporules.

SPOT
Spot, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot. & D. spat, Dan. spette, Sw. spott spittle,
slaver; from the root of E. spit. See Spit to eject from the mouth,
and cf. Spatter.]

1. A mark on a substance or body made by foreign matter; a blot; a
place discolored.
Out, damned spot! Out, I say! Shak.

2. A stain on character or reputation; something that soils purity;
disgrace; reproach; fault; blemish.
Yet Chloe, sure, was formed without a spot. Pope.

3. A small part of a different color from the main part, or from the
ground upon which it is; as, the spots of a leopard; the spots on a
playing card.

4. A small extent of space; a place; any particular place. "Fixed to
one spot." Otway.
That spot to which I point is Paradise. Milton.
"A jolly place," said he, "in times of old! But something ails it
now: the spot is cursed." Wordsworth.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: A variety of the common domestic pigeon, so called from a spot
on its head just above its beak.

6. (Zool.)
(a) A sci?noid food fish (Liostomus xanthurus) of the Atlantic coast
of the United States. It has a black spot behind the shoulders and
fifteen oblique dark bars on the sides. Called also goody, Lafayette,
masooka, and old wife.
(b) The southern redfish, or red horse, which has a spot on each side
at the base of the tail. See Redfish.

7. pl.

Defn: Commodities, as merchandise and cotton, sold for immediate
delivery. [Broker's Cant] Crescent spot (Zool.), any butterfly of the
family Melit?id? having crescent-shaped white spots along the margins
of the red or brown wings.
 -- Spot lens (Microscopy), a condensing lens in which the light is
confined to an annular pencil by means of a small, round diaphragm
(the spot), and used in dark-field ilumination; -- called also
spotted lens.
 -- Spot rump (Zool.), the Hudsonian godwit (Limosa h?mastica).
 -- Spots on the sun. (Astron.) See Sun spot, ander Sun.
 -- On, or Upon, the spot, immediately; before moving; without
changing place.
It was determined upon the spot. Swift.

Syn.
 -- Stain; flaw; speck; blot; disgrace; reproach; fault; blemish;
place; site; locality.

SPOT
Spot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Spotting.]

1. To make visible marks upon with some foreign matter; to discolor
in or with spots; to stain; to cover with spots or figures; as, to
spot a garnment; to spot paper.

2. To mark or note so as to insure recognition; to recognize; to
detect; as, to spot a criminal. [Cant]

3. To stain; to blemish; to taint; to disgrace; to tarnish, as
reputation; to asperse.
My virgin life no spotted thoughts shall stain. Sir P. Sidney.
If ever I shall close these eyes but once, May I live spotted for my
perjury. Beau. & Fl.
To spot timber, to cut or chip it, in preparation for hewing.

SPOT
Spot, v. i.

Defn: To become stained with spots.

SPOT CASH
Spot cash. (Com.)

Defn: Cash paid or ready for payment at once upon delivery of
property purchased.

SPOTLESS
Spot"less, a.

Defn: Without a spot; especially, free from reproach or impurity;
pure; untained; innocent; as, a spotless mind; spotless behavior.
A spotless virgin, and a faultless wife. Waller.

Syn.
 -- Blameless; unspotted; unblemished; pure; immaculate;
irreproachable. See Blameless.
 -- Spot"less*ly, adv.
 -- Spot"less*ness, n.

SPOTLIGHT
Spot"light`, n.

Defn: The projected spot or circle of light used to illuminate
brilliantly a single person or object or group on the stage; leaving
the rest of the stage more or less unilluminated; hence, conspicuous
public notice. [Cant or Colloq.]

SPOT STROKE
Spot stroke. (Eng. Billiards)

Defn: The pocketing of the red ball in a top corner pocket from off
its own spot so as to leave the cue ball in position for an easy
winning hazard in either top corner pocket.

SPOTTED
Spot"ted, a.

Defn: Marked with spots; as, a spotted garment or character. "The
spotted panther." Spenser. Spotted fever (Med.), a name applied to
various eruptive fevers, esp. to typhus fever and cerebro-spinal
meningitis.
 -- Spotted tree (Bot.), an Australian tree (Flindersia maculosa); --
so called because its bark falls off in spots.

SPOTTEDNESS
Spot"ted*ness, n.

Defn: State or quality of being spotted.

SPOTTER
Spot"ter, n.

Defn: One who spots.

SPOTTINESS
Spot"ti*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being spotty.

SPOTTY
Spot"ty, a.

Defn: Full of spots; marked with spots.

SPOUSAGE
Spous"age (; 48), n. Etym: [OF. espousaige, from espouser. See
Spouse, v. t.]

Defn: Espousal. [Obs.] Bale.

SPOUSAL
Spous"al, a. Etym: [See Espousal, Sponsal, and Spouse.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a spouse or marriage; nuptial; matrimonial;
conjugal; bridal; as, spousal rites; spousal ornaments. Wordsworth.

SPOUSAL
Spous"al, n. Etym: [See Espousal, Spouse.]

Defn: Marriage; nuptials; espousal; -- generally used in the plural;
as, the spousals of Hippolita. Dryden.
Boweth your head under that blissful yoke . . . Which that men
clepeth spousal or wedlock. Chaucer.
the spousals of the newborn year. Emerson.

SPOUSE
Spouse, n. Etym: [OF. espous, espos, fem. espouse, F. epoux, epouse,
fr. L. sponsus, sponsa, prop. p.p. of spondere, sponsum, to promise
solemnly, to engage one's self. Cf. Despond, Espouse, respond,
Sponsor.]

1. A man or woman engaged or joined in wedlock; a married person,
husband or wife.
At last such grace I found, and means I wrought, That that lady to my
spouse had won. Spenser.

2. A married man, in distinct from a spousess or married woman; a
bridegroom or husband. [Obs.]
At which marriage was [were] no person present but the spouse, the
spousess, the Duchess of Bedford her mother, the priest, two
gentlewomen, and a young man. Fabyan.

SPOUSE
Spouse, v. t. Etym: [See Espouse, and Spouse, n.]

Defn: To wed; to espouse. [Obs.]
This markis hath her spoused with a ring. Chaucer.
Though spoused, yet wanting wedlock's solemnize. Spenser.
She was found again, and spoused to Marinell. Spenser.

SPOUSE-BREACH
Spouse"-breach`, n.

Defn: Adultery. [Obs.]

SPOUSELESS
Spouse"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a spouse; unmarried.

SPOUSESS
Spous"ess, n.

Defn: A wife or bride. [Obs.] Fabyan.

SPOUT
Spout, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spouted; p. pr. & vb. n. Spouting.] Etym:
[Cf. Sw. sputa, spruta, to spout, D. spuit a spout, spuiten to spout,
and E. spurt, sprit, v., sprout, sputter; or perhaps akin to E. spit
to eject from the mouth.]

1. To throw out forcibly and abudantly, as liquids through an office
or a pipe; to eject in a jet; as, an elephant spouts water from his
trunk.
Who kept Jonas in the fish's maw Till he was spouted up at Ninivee
Chaucer.
Next on his belly floats the mighty whale . . . He spouts the tide.
Creech.

2. To utter magniloquently; to recite in an oratorical or pompous
manner.
Pray, spout some French, son. Beau. & Fl.

3. To pawn; to pledge; as, spout a watch. [Cant]

SPOUT
Spout, v. i.

1. To issue with with violence, or in a jet, as a liquid through a
narrow orifice, or from a spout; as, water spouts from a hole; blood
spouts from an artery.
All the glittering hill Is bright with spouting rills. Thomson.

2. To eject water or liquid in a jet.

3. To utter a speech, especially in a pompous manner.

SPOUT
Spout, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. spruta a squirt, a syringe. See Spout, v.
t.]

1. That through which anything spouts; a discharging lip, pipe, or
orifice; a tube, pipe, or conductor of any kind through which a
liquid is poured, or by which it is conveyed in a stream from one
place to another; as, the spout of a teapot; a spout for conducting
water from the roof of a building. Addison. "A conduit with three
issuing spouts." Shak.
In whales . . . an ejection thereof [water] is contrived by a
fistula, or spout, at the head. Sir T. Browne.
From silver spouts the grateful liquors glide. Pope.

2. A trough for conducting grain, flour, etc., into a receptacle.

3. A discharge or jet of water or other liquid, esp. when rising in a
column; also, a waterspout. To put, shove, or pop, up the spout, to
pawn or pledge at a pawnbroker's; -- in allusion to the spout up
which the pawnbroker sent the ticketed articles. [Cant]

SPOUTER
Spout"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, spouts.

SPOUTFISH
Spout"fish, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A marine animal that spouts water; -- applied especially to
certain bivalve mollusks, like the long clams (Mya), which spout, or
squirt out, water when retiring into their holes.

SPOUTLESS
Spout"less, a.

Defn: Having no spout. Cowper.

SPOUTSHELL
Spout"shell`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any marine gastropod shell of the genus Apporhais having an
elongated siphon. See Illust. under Rostrifera.

SPRACK
Sprack, a. Etym: [Cf. Icel. sp?kr sprightly, dial. Sw. sprak, sprag,
spirited, mettlesome; or Gael. spraic vigor.]

Defn: Quick; lively' alert. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SPRAD
Sprad, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Spread. Chaucer.

SPRADDE
Sprad"de, obs.

Defn: imp. of Spread. Chaucer.

SPRAG
Sprag, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. spraka a small flounder.] (Zool.)

Defn: A young salmon. [Prov. Eng.]

SPRAG
Sprag, n. Etym: [See Spray a branch.]

Defn: A billet of wood; a piece of timber used as a prop.

SPRAG
Sprag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spragged; p. pr. & vb. n. Spragging.]

1. To check the motion of, as a carriage on a steep grade, by putting
a sprag between the spokes of the wheel. R. S. Poole.

2. To prop or sustain with a sprag.

SPRAG
Sprag, a.

Defn: See Sprack, a. Shak.

SPRAIN
Sprain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sprained; p. pr. & vb. n. Spraining.]
Etym: [OF. espreindreto press, to force out, F. epreindre, fr. L.
exprimere. See Express, v. t., and cf. Spraints.]

Defn: To weaken, as a joint, ligament, or muscle, by sudden and
excessive exertion, as by wrenching; to overstrain, or stretch
injuriously, but without luxation; as, to sprain one's ankle.

SPRAIN
Sprain, n.

Defn: The act or result of spraining; lameness caused by spraining;
as, a bad sprain of the wrist. Sprain fracture (Med.), the separation
of a tendon from its point of insertion, with the detachment of a
shell of bone to which the tendon is attached.

SPRAINTS
Spraints, n. pl. Etym: [OF. espraintes, espreintes, F. epreintes from
espreinte a desire to go to stool, from espreindre. See Sprain, v.
t.]

Defn: The dung of an otter.

SPRANG
Sprang,

Defn: imp. of Spring.

SPRAT
Sprat, n. Etym: [OE. sprot, sprotte, D. sprot; akin to G. sprotte.]
(Zool.)
(a) A small European herring (Clupea sprattus) closely allied to the
common herring and the pilchard; -- called also garvie. The name is
also applied to small herring of different kinds.
(b) A California surf-fish (Rhacochilus toxotes); -- called also
alfione, and perch. Sprat borer (Zool.), the red-throated diver; --
so called from its fondness for sprats. See Diver.
 -- Sprat loon. (Zool.) (a) The young of the great northern diver.
[Prov. Eng.] (b) The red-throated diver. See Diver.
 -- Sprat mew (Zool.), the kittiwake gull.

SPRAWL
Sprawl (sprall), v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sprawled (spralld); p. pr. & vb.
n. Sprawling.] Etym: [OE. spraulen; cf. Sw. sprattla to sprawl, dial.
Sw. spralla, Dan. sp?lle, spr?lde, D. spartelen, spertelen, to
flounder, to struggle.]

1. To spread and stretch the body or limbs carelessly in a horizontal
position; to lie with the limbs stretched out ungracefully.

2. To spread irregularly, as vines, plants, or tress; to spread
ungracefully, as chirography.

3. To move, when lying down, with awkward extension and motions of
the limbs; to scramble in creeping.
The birds were not fledged; but upon sprawling and struggling to get
clear of the flame, down they tumbled. L'Estrange.

SPRAWLS
Sprawls, n. pl.

Defn: Small branches of a tree; twigs; sprays. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

SPRAY
Spray, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. sprag. See Sprig.]

1. A small shoot or branch; a twig. Chaucer.
The painted birds, companions of the spring, Hopping from spray, were
heard to sing. Dryden.

2. A collective body of small branches; as, the tree has a beautiful
spray.
And from the trees did lop the needless spray. Spenser.

3. (Founding)
(a) A side channel or branch of the runner of a flask, made to
distribute the metal in all parts of the mold.
(b) A group of castings made in the same mold and connected by sprues
formed in the runner and its branches. Knight. Spray drain (Agric.),
a drain made by laying under earth the sprays or small branches of
trees, which keep passages open.

SPRAY
Spray, n. Etym: [probably from a Dutch or Low German form akin to E.
spread. See Spread, v. t.]

1. Water flying in small drops or particles, as by the force of wind,
or the dashing of waves, or from a waterfall, and the like.

2. (Med.)
(a) A jet of fine medicated vapor, used either as an application to a
diseased part or to charge the air of a room with a disinfectant or a
deodorizer.
(b) An instrument for applying such a spray; an atomizer. Spray
condenser (Steam Engine) an injection condenser in which the steam is
condensed by a spray of water which mingles with it.

SPRAY
Spray, v. t.

1. To let fall in the form of spray. [Poetic] M. Arnold.

2. To throw spray upon; to treat with a liquid in the form of spray;
as, to spray a wound, or a surgical instrument, with carbolic acid.

SPRAYBOARD
Spray`board, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Dashboard, n., 2 (b).

SPRAYER
Spray"er, n.

Defn: One that sprays; any instrument for vaporizing and spraying
liquids.

SPREAD
Spread, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spread; p. pr. & vb. n. Spreading.] Etym:
[OE. spreden, AS. spr?dan; akin to D. spreiden, spreijen, LG.
spreden, spreen, spreien, G. spreiten, Dan. sprede, Sw. sprida. Cf.
Spray water flying in drops.]

1. To extend in length and breadth, or in breadth only; to stretch or
expand to a broad or broader surface or extent; to open; to unfurl;
as, to spread a carpet; to spread a tent or a sail.
He bought a parcel of a field where he had spread his tent. Gen.
xxxiii. 19.
Here the Rhone Hath spread himself a couch. Byron.

2. To extend so as to cover something; to extend to a great or grater
extent in every direction; to cause to fill or cover a wide or wider
space.
Rose, as in a dance, the stately trees, and spread Their branches
hung with copious fruit. Milton.

3. To divulge; to publish, as news or fame; to cause to be more
extensively known; to disseminate; to make known fully; as, to spread
a report; -- often acompanied by abroad.
They, when they were departed, spread abroad his fame in all that
country. Matt. ix. 31.

4. To propagate; to cause to affect great numbers; as, to spread a
disease.

5. To diffuse, as emanations or effluvia; to emit; as, odoriferous
plants spread their fragrance.

6. To strew; to scatter over a surface; as, to spread manure; to
spread lime on the ground.

7. To prepare; to set and furnish with provisions; as, to spread a
table.
Boiled the flesh, and spread the board. Tennyson.
To sprad cloth, to unfurl sail. [Obs.] Evelyn.

Syn.
 -- To diffuse; propogate; disperse; publish; distribute; scatter;
circulate; disseminate; dispense.

SPREAD
Spread, v. i.

1. To extend in length and breadth in all directions, or in breadth
only; to be extended or stretched; to expand.
Plants, if they spread much, are seldom tall. Bacon.
Govrnor Winthrop, and his associates at Charlestown, had for a church
a large, spreading tree. B. Trumbull.

2. To be extended by drawing or beating; as, some metals spread with
difficulty.

3. To be made known more extensively, as news.

4. To be propagated from one to another; as, the disease spread into
all parts of the city. Shak.

SPREAD
Spread, n.

1. Extent; compass.
I have got a fine spread of improvable land. Addison.

2. Expansion of parts.
No flower hath spread like that of the woodbine. Bacon.

3. A cloth used as a cover for a table or a bed.

4. A table, as spread or furnished with a meal; hence, an
entertainment of food; a feast. [Colloq.]

5. A privilege which one person buys of another, of demanding certain
shares of stock at a certain price, or of delivering the same shares
of stock at another price, within a time agreed upon. [Broker's Cant]

6. (Geom.)

Defn: An unlimited expanse of discontinuous points.

SPREAD
Spread,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Spread, v. Spread eagle. (a) An eagle with
outspread wings, the national emblem of the United States. (b) The
figure of an eagle, with its wings elevated and its legs extended;
often met as a device upon military ornaments, and the like. (c)
(Her.) An eagle displayed; an eagle with the wings and legs extended
on each side of the body, as in the double-headed eagle of Austria
and Russia. See Displayed, 2.

SPREAD-EAGLE
Spread"-ea`gle, a.

Defn: Characterized by a pretentious, boastful, exaggerated style;
defiantly or extravagantly bombastic; as, a spread-eagle orator; a
spread-eagle speech. [Colloq.& Humorous]

SPREAD-EAGLE
Spread"-ea`gle v. i.

Defn: To assume a spread-eagled position; -- it may be done
reclining, for relaxation, or momentarily, as an exhibitionary
maneuver in a sport.

SPREAD-EAGLED
Spread"-ea`gled v.tr.

Defn: 1. To place in a spread-eagle position, especially as a means
of punishment. 2. being in a position with the arms and legs extended
fully.

SPREADER
Spread"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, spreads, expands, or propogates.

2. A machine for combining and drawing fibers of flax to form a
sliver preparatory to spinning.

SPREADINGLY
Spread"ing*ly

Defn: , adv. Increasingly.
The best times were spreadingly infected. Milton.

SPRECHERY
Sprech"er*y, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. spreidh catle.]

Defn: Movables of an inferior description; especially, such as have
been collected by depredation. [Scot]

SPREE
Spree, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. spre a spark, animation, spirit, Gael.
spraic. Cf. Sprack.]

Defn: A merry frolic; especially, a drinking frolic; a carousal.
[Colloq.]

SPRENGE
Sprenge, v. t. Etym: [OE. sprengen, p.p. sprent, spreint, from AS.
sprengen to sprinkle. See Sprinkle.]

Defn: To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.] Wyclif (1 Pet. i. 2).

SPRENGEL PUMP
Spreng"el pump`. (Physics)

Defn: A form of air pump in which exhaustion is produced by a stream
of mercury running down a narrow tube, in the manner of an aspirator;
-- named from the inventor.

SPRENT
Sprent, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Sprenge. Sprinkled.
All the ground with purple blood was sprent. Spenser.

SPREW
Sprew, n. Etym: [Cf. D. sprouw, spruw.] (Med.)

Defn: Thrush. [Local, U.S.]

SPREYND
Spreynd, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Sprenge. Sprinkled.
When spreynd was holy water. Chaucer.

SPRIG
Sprig, n. Etym: [AS. sprec; akin to Icel. sprek a stick. Cf. Spray a
branch.]

1. A small shoot or twig of a tree or other plant; a spray; as, a
sprig of laurel or of parsley.

2. A youth; a lad; -- used humorously or in slight disparagement.
A sprig whom I remember, with a whey-face and a satchel, not so many
years ago. Sir W. Scott.

3. A brad, or nail without a head.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A small eyebolt ragged or barbed at the point.

SPRIG
Sprig, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sprigged; p. pr. & vb. n. Sprigging.]

Defn: To mark or adorn with the representation of small branches; to
work with sprigs; as, to sprig muslin.

SPRIGGED
Sprigged, a.

Defn: Having sprigs.

SPRIGGY
Sprig"gy, a.

Defn: Full of sprigs or small branches.

SPRIGHT
Spright, n. Etym: [See Sprite.]

1. Spirit; mind; soul; state of mind; mood. [Obs.] "The high heroic
spright." Spenser.
Wondrous great grief groweth in my spright. Spenser.

2. A supernatural being; a spirit; a shade; an apparition; a ghost.
Forth he called, out of deep darkness dread, Legions of sprights.
Spenser.
To thee, O Father, Son, and Sacred Spright. Fairfax.

3. A kind of short arrow. [Obs.] Bacon.

SPRIGHT
Spright, v. t.

Defn: To haunt, as a spright. [Obs.] Shak.

SPRIGHTFUL
Spright"ful, a. Etym: [Spright sprite + full.]

Defn: Full of spirit or of life; earnest; vivacious; lively; brisk;
nimble; gay. [Obs.] -- Spright"ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Spright"ful*ness, n. [Obs.]
Spoke like a sprightful gentlemen. Shak.
Steeds sprightful as the light. Cowley.

SPRIGHTLESS
Spright"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of life; dull; sluggish.

SPRIGHTLINESS
Spright"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sprightly; liveliness; life;
briskness; vigor; activity; gayety; vivacity.
In dreams, observe with what a sprightliness and alacrity does she
[the soul] exert herself! Addison.

SPRIGHTLY
Spright"ly, a. [Compar. Sprightlier; superl. Sprightliest.] Etym:
[See Sprite.]

Defn: Sprightlike, or spiritlike; lively; brisk; animated; vigorous;
airy; gay; as, a sprightly youth; a sprightly air; a sprightly dance.
"Sprightly wit and love inspires." Dryden.
The sprightly Sylvia trips along the green. Pope.

SPRIGTAIL
Sprig"tail`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The pintail duck; -- called also sprig, and spreet-tail. [Local,
U.S.]
(b) The sharp-tailed grouse. [Local, U.S.]

SPRING
Spring, v. i. [imp. Sprang or Sprung (; p. p. Sprung; p. pr. & vb. n.
Springing.] Etym: [AS. springan; akin to D. & G. springen, OS. & OHG.
springan, Icel. & Sw. springa, Dan. springe; cf. Gr. Springe,
Sprinkle.]

1. To leap; to bound; to jump.
The mountain stag that springs From height to height, and bounds
along the plains. Philips.

2. To issue with speed and violence; to move with activity; to dart;
to shoot.
And sudden light Sprung through the vaulted roof. Dryden.

3. To start or rise suddenly, as from a covert.
Watchful as fowlers when their game will spring. Otway.

4. To fly back; as, a bow, when bent, springs back by its elastic
power.

5. To bend from a straight direction or plane surface; to become
warped; as, a piece of timber, or a plank, sometimes springs in
seasoning.

6. To shoot up, out, or forth; to come to the light; to begin to
appear; to emerge; as a plant from its seed, as streams from their
source, and the like; -often followed by up, forth, or out.
Till well nigh the day began to spring. Chaucer.
To satisfy the desolate and waste ground, and to cause the bud of the
tender herb to spring forth. Job xxxviii. 27.
Do not blast my springing hopes. Rowe.
O, spring to light; auspicious Babe, be born. Pope.

7. To issue or proceed, as from a parent or ancestor; to result, as
from a cause, motive, reason, or principle.
[They found] new hope to spring Out of despair, joy, but with fear
yet linked. Milton.

8. To grow; to prosper.
What makes all this, but Jupiter the king, At whose command we
perish, and we spring Dryden.
To spring at, to leap toward; to attempt to reach by a leap.
 -- To spring forth, to leap out; to rush out.
 -- To spring in, to rush in; to enter with a leap or in haste.
 -- To spring on or upon, to leap on; to rush on with haste or
violence; to assault.

SPRING
Spring, v. t.

1. To cause to spring up; to start or rouse, as game; to cause to
rise from the earth, or from a covert; as, to spring a pheasant.

2. To produce or disclose suddenly or unexpectedly.
She starts, and leaves her bed, amd springs a light. Dryden.
The friends to the cause sprang a new project. Swift.

3. To cause to explode; as, to spring a mine.

4. To crack or split; to bend or strain so as to weaken; as, to
spring a mast or a yard.

5. To cause to close suddenly, as the parts of a trap operated by a
spring; as, to spring a trap.

6. To bend by force, as something stiff or strong; to force or put by
bending, as a beam into its sockets, and allowing it to straighten
when in place; -- often with in, out, etc.; as, to spring in a slat
or a bar.

7. To pass over by leaping; as, to spring a fence. To spring a butt
(Naut.), to loosen the end of a plank in a ship's bottom.
 -- To spring a leak (Naut.), to begin to leak.
 -- To spring an arch (Arch.), to build an arch; -- a common term
among masons; as, to spring an arcg over a lintel.
 -- To spring a rattle, to cause a rattle to sound. See Watchman's
rattle, under Watchman.
 -- To spring the luff (Naut.), to ease the helm, and sail nearer to
the wind than before; -- said of a vessel. Mar. Dict.
 -- To spring a mast or spar (Naut.), to strain it so that it is
unserviceable.

SPRING
Spring, n. Etym: [AS. spring a fountain, a leap. See Spring, v. i.]

1. A leap; a bound; a jump.
The prisoner, with a spring, from prison broke. Dryden.

2. A flying back; the resilience of a body recovering its former
state by elasticity; as, the spring of a bow.

3. Elastic power or force.
Heavens! what a spring was in his arm! Dryden.

4. An elastic body of any kind, as steel, India rubber, tough wood,
or compressed air, used for various mechanical purposes, as receiving
and imparting power, diminishing concussion, regulating motion,
measuring weight or other force.

Note: The principal varieties of springs used in mechanisms are the
spiral spring (Fig. a), the coil spring (Fig. b), the elliptic spring
(Fig. c), the half-elliptic spring (Fig. d), the volute spring, the
India-rubber spring, the atmospheric spring, etc.

5. Any source of supply; especially, the source from which a stream
proceeds; as issue of water from the earth; a natural fountain. "All
my springs are in thee." Ps. lxxxvii. 7. "A secret spring of
spiritual joy." Bentley. "The sacred spring whence and honor
streams." red rose of the House of Lancaster. Sir J. Davies.

6. Any active power; that by which action, or motion, is produced or
propagated; cause; origin; motive.
Our author shuns by vulgar springs to move The hero's glory, or the
virgin's love. Pope.

7. That which springs, or is originated, from a source; as: (a) A
race; lineage. [Obs.] Chapman.
(b) A youth; a springal. [Obs.] Spenser.
(c) A shoot; a plant; a young tree; also, a grove of trees; woodland.
[Obs.] Spenser. Milton.

8. That which causes one to spring; specifically, a lively tune.
[Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

9. The season of the year when plants begin to vegetate and grow; the
vernal season, usually comprehending the months of March, April, and
May, in the middle latitudes north of the equator. "The green lap of
the new-come spring." Shak.

Note: Spring of the astronomical year begins with the vernal equinox,
about March 21st, and ends with the summer solstice, about June 21st.

10. The time of growth and progress; early portion; first stage. "The
spring of the day." 1 Sam. ix. 26.
O how this spring of love resembleth The uncertain glory of an April
day. Shak.

11. (Naut.)
(a) A crack or fissure in a mast or yard, running obliquely or
transversely.
(b) A line led from a vessel's quarter to her cable so that by
tightening or slacking it she can be made to lie in any desired
position; a line led diagonally from the bow or stern of a vessel to
some point upon the wharf to which she is moored. Air spring, Boiling
spring, etc. See under Air, Boiling, etc.
 -- Spring back (Bookbinding), a back with a curved piece of thin
sheet iron or of stiff pasteboard fastened to the inside, the effect
of which is to make the leaves of a book thus bound (as a ledger or
other account or blank book) spring up and lie flat.
 -- Spring balance, a contrivance for measuring weight or force by
the elasticity of a spiral spring of steel.
 -- Spring beam, a beam that supports the side of a paddle box. See
Paddle beam, under Paddle, n.
 -- Spring beauty. (a) (Bot.) Any plant of the genus Claytonia,
delicate herbs with somewhat fleshy leaves and pretty blossoms,
appearing in springtime. (b) (Zool.) A small, elegant American
butterfly (Erora l?ta) which appears in spring. The hind wings of the
male are brown, bordered with deep blue; those of the female are
mostly blue.
 -- Spring bed, a mattress, under bed, or bed bottom, in which
springs, as of metal, are employed to give the required elasticity.
 -- Spring beetle (Zool.), a snapping beetle; an elater.
 -- Spring box, the box or barrel in a watch, or other piece of
mechanism, in which the spring is contained.
 -- Spring fly (Zool.), a caddice fly; -- so called because it
appears in the spring.
 -- Spring grass (Bot.), a vernal grass. See under Vernal.
 -- Spring gun, a firearm disharged by a spring, when this is trodden
upon or is otherwise moved.
 -- Spring hook (Locomotive Engines), one of the hooks which fix the
driving-wheel spring to the frame.
 -- Spring latch, a latch that fastens with a spring.

-- Spring lock, a lock that fastens with a spring.
 -- Spring mattress, a spring bed.
 -- Spring of an arch (Arch.) See Springing line of an arch, under
Springing.
 -- Spring of pork, the lower part of a fore quarter, which is
divided from the neck, and has the leg and foot without the shoulder.
[Obs.] Nares.
Sir, pray hand the spring of pork to me. Gayton.
-- Spring pin (Locomotive Engines), an iron rod fitted between the
springs and the axle boxes, to sustain and regulate the pressure on
the axles.
 -- Spring rye, a kind of rye sown in the spring; -- in distinction
from winter rye, sown in autumn.
 -- Spring stay (Naut.), a preventer stay, to assist the regular one.
R. H. Dana, Jr.
 -- Spring tide, the tide which happens at, or soon after, the new
and the full moon, and which rises higher than common tides. See
Tide.
 -- Spring wagon, a wagon in which springs are interposed between the
body and the axles to form elastic supports.
 -- Spring wheat, any kind of wheat sown in the spring; -- in
distinction from winter wheat, which is sown in autumn.

SPRINGAL; SPRINGALD; SPRINGALL
Spring"al, Spring"ald, Spring"all, a. Etym: [Scot. springald,
springel, fr. Scot. & E. spring.]

Defn: An active, springly young man. [Obs.] "There came two springals
of full tender years." Spenser.
Joseph, when he was sold to Potiphar, that great man, was a fair
young springall. Latimer.

SPRINGAL
Spring"al, n. Etym: [OF. espringale; of Teutonic origin, akin to E.
spring.]

Defn: An ancient military engine for casting stones and arrows by
means of a spring.

SPRINGBOARD
Spring"board`, n.

Defn: An elastic board, secured at the ends, or at one end, often by
elastic supports, used in performing feats of agility or in
exercising.

SPRINGBOK; SPRINGBUCK
Spring"bok`, Spring"buck`, n. Etym: [D. springbok; springen to
spring, leap + bok a he-goat, buck.] (Zool.)

Defn: A South African gazelle (Gazella euchore) noted for its
graceful form and swiftness, and for its peculiar habit of springing
lighty and suddenly into the air. It has a white dorsal stripe,
expanding into a broad patch of white on the rump and tail. Called
also springer. [Written also springboc, and springbock.]

SPRINGE
Springe, n. Etym: [From Spring, v. i.: cf. G. sprenkel, Prov. E.
springle.]

Defn: A noose fastened to an elastic body, and drawn close with a
sudden spring, whereby it catches a bird or other animal; a gin; a
snare.
As a woodcock to mine own springe. Shak.

SPRINGE
Springe, v. t.

Defn: To catch in a springe; to insnare. [R.]

SPRINGE
Spring"e ( or ), v. t. Etym: [OE. sprengen. See Sprinkle.]

Defn: To sprinkle; to scatter. [Obs.]
He would sowen some difficulty, Or springen cockle in our cleane
corn. Chaucer.

SPRINGER
Spring"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, springs; specifically, one who rouses
game.

2. A young plant. [Obs.] Evelyn.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The impost, or point at which an arch rests upon its support, and
from which it seems to spring. Hence:
(b) The bottom stone of an arch, which lies on the impost. The skew
back is one form of springer.
(c) The rib of a groined vault, as being the solid abutment for each
section of vaulting.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: The grampus.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: A variety of the field spaniel. See Spaniel.

6. (Zool.)

Defn: A species of antelope; the sprinkbok.

SPRINGHALT
Spring"halt`, n. (Far.)

Defn: A kind of lameness in horse. See Stringhalt. Shak.

SPRINGHEAD
Spring"head`, n.

Defn: A fountain or source.

SPRINGINESS
Spring"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being springly. Boyle.

SPRINGING
Spring"ing, n.

1. The act or process of one who, or that which, springs.

2. Growth; increase; also, that which springs up; a shoot; a plant.
Thou blessest the springing thereof. Ps. lxv. 10.
Springing line of an arch (Arch.), the horizontal line drawn through
the junction of the vertical face of the impost with the curve of the
intrados; -- called also spring of an arch.

SPRINGLE
Sprin"gle, n.

Defn: A springe. [Prov. Eng.]

SPRINGLET
Spring"let, n.

Defn: A little spring.
But yet from out the little hill Oozes the slender springlet still.
Sir W. Scott.

SPRING STEEL
Spring steel.

Defn: A variety of steel, elastic, strong, and tough, rolled for
springs, etc.

SPRINGTAIL
Spring"tail`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small apterous insects belonging
to the order Thysanura. They have two elastic caudal stylets which
can be bent under the abdomen and then suddenly extended like a
spring, thus enabling them to leap to a considerable distance. See
Collembola, and Podura.

SPRINGTIDE
Spring"tide, n.

Defn: The time of spring; springtime. Thomson.

SPRINGTIME
Spring"time`, n.

Defn: The season of spring; springtide.

SPRINGY
Spring"y, a. [Compar. Springier; superl. Springiest.] Etym: [From
Spring.]

1. Resembling, having the qualities of, or pertaining to, a spring;
elastic; as, springy steel; a springy step.
Though her little frame was slight, it was firm and springy. Sir W.
Scott.

2. Abounding with springs or fountains; wet; spongy; as, springy
land.

SPRINKLE
Sprin"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sprinkled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sprinkling.] Etym: [OE. sprenkelen, freq. of sprengen to sprinkle, to
scatter, AS. sprengan, properly, to make to spring, causative of
springan to spring; akin to D. sprenkelen to sprinkle, G. sprengen.
See Spring, v. i., and cf. Sprent.]

1. To scatter in small drops or particles, as water, seed, etc.

2. To scatter on; to disperse something over in small drops or
particles; to besprinkle; as, to sprinkle the earth with water; to
sprinkle a floor with sand.

3. To baptize by the application of a few drops, or a small quantity,
of water; hence, to cleanse; to purify.
Having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience. Heb. x. 22.

SPRINKLE
Sprin"kle, v. i.

1. To scatter a liquid, or any fine substance, so that it may fall in
particles.
And the priest shall . . . sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven
times before the Lord. Lev. xiv. 16.

2. To rain moderately, or with scattered drops falling now and then;
as, it sprinkles.

3. To fly or be scattered in small drops or particles.

SPRINKLE
Sprin"kle, n.

1. A small quantity scattered, or sparsely distributed; a sprinkling.

2. A utensil for sprinkling; a sprinkler. [Obs.]

SPRINKLER
Sprin"kler, n.

1. One who sprinkles.

2. An instrument or vessel used in sprinkling; specifically, a
watering pot.

SPRINKLING
Sprin"kling, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, sprinkles.
Baptism may well enough be performed by sprinkling or effusion of
water. Ayliffe.

2. A small quantity falling in distinct drops or particles; as, a
sprinkling of rain or snow.

3. Hence, a moderate number or quantity distributed like drops.
Craik.

SPRINT
Sprint, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sprinted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sprinting.]
Etym: [Cf. Sprunt.]

Defn: To run very rapidly; to run at full speed.
A runner [in a quarter-mile race] should be able to sprint the whole
way. Encyc. Brit.

SPRINT
Sprint, n.

Defn: The act of sprinting; a run of a short distance at full speed.
Sprint race, a foot race at the highest running speed; -- usually
limited to distance under a quarter of a mile.

SPRINTER
Sprint"er, n.

Defn: One who sprints; one who runs in sprint races; as, a champion
sprinter.

SPRIT
Sprit, v. t. Etym: [Akin to G. spritzen, sprutzen. See Sprit, v. i.]

Defn: To throw out with force from a narrow orifice; to eject; to
spurt out. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SPRIT
Sprit, v. i. Etym: [AS. spryttan to sprout, but. See Sprout, v. i.,
and cf. Spurt, v. t., Sprit a spar.]

Defn: To sprout; to bud; to germinate, as barley steeped for malt.

SPRIT
Sprit, n.

Defn: A shoot; a sprout. [Obs.] Mortimer.

SPRIT
Sprit, n. Etym: [OE. spret, AS. spreot a sprit; spear; akin to D.
spriet, and E. sprout, sprit, v.t. & i. See Sprout, v. i.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small boom, pole, or spar, which crosses the sail of a boat
diagonally from the mast to the upper aftmost corner, which it is
used to extend and elevate.

SPRITE
Sprite, n. Etym: [OE. sprit, F. esprit, fr. L. spiritus. See Spirit,
and cf. Sprightly.]

1. A spirit; a soul; a shade; also, an apparition. See Spright.
Gaping graves received the wandering, guilty sprite. Dryden.

2. An elf; a fairy; a goblin.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The green woodpecker, or yaffle.

SPRITEFUL; SPRITEFULLY; SPRITELINESS; SPRITELY
Sprite"ful, a. Sprite"ful*ly, adv., Sprite"li*ness (, n., Sprite"ly,
a., etc.

Defn: See Sprightful, Sprightfully, Sprightliness, Sprightly, etc.

SPRITSAIL
Sprit"sail ( or ), n. (Naut.)
(a) A sail extended by a sprit.
(b) A sail formerly hung under the bowsprit, from the spritsail yard.

SPROCKET WHEEL
Sprock"et wheel`. Etym: [Etymology of sprocket is uncertain.] (Mach.)

Defn: Same as Chain wheel.

SPROD
Sprod, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. & Ir. bradan a salmon.] (Zool.)

Defn: A salmon in its second year. [Prov. Eng.]

SPRONG
Sprong, obs.

Defn: imp. of Spring. Sprung.

SPROUT
Sprout, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sprouted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sprouting.]
Etym: [OE. sprouten, spruten; akin to OFries. spr, AS. spreotan, D.
spruiten, G. spriessen, Sw. spruta to squirt, to spout. Cf. Sprit, v.
t. & i., Sprit a spar, Spout, v. t., Spurt.]

1. To shoot, as the seed of a plant; to germinate; to push out new
shoots; hence, to grow like shoots of plants.

2. To shoot into ramifications. [Obs.] Bacon.

SPROUT
Sprout, v. t.

1. To cause to sprout; as, the rain will sprout the seed.

2. To deprive of sprouts; as, to sprout potatoes.

SPROUT
Sprout, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. sprote a sprout, sprig; akin to Icel.
sproti, G. sprosse. See Sprout, v. i.]

1. The shoot of a plant; a shoot from the seed, from the stump, or
from the root or tuber, of a plant or tree; more rarely, a shoot from
the stem of a plant, or the end of a branch.

2. pl.

Defn: Young coleworts; Brussels sprouts. Johnson. Brussels sprouts
(Bot.) See under Brussels.

SPRUCE
Spruce, n. Etym: [OE. Spruce or Pruse, Prussia, Prussian. So named
because it was first known as a native of Prussia, or because its
sprouts were used for making, spruce beer. Cf. Spruce beer, below,
Spruce, a.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any coniferous tree of the genus Picea, as the Norway spruce
(P. excelsa), and the white and black spruces of America (P. alba and
P. nigra), besides several others in the far Northwest. See Picea.

2. The wood or timber of the spruce tree.

3. Prussia leather; pruce. [Obs.]
Spruce, a sort of leather corruptly so called for Prussia leather. E.
Phillips.
Douglas spruce (Bot.), a valuable timber tree (Pseudotsuga Douglasii)
of Northwestern America.
 -- Essence of spruce, a thick, dark-colored, bitterish, and
acidulous liquid made by evaporating a decoction of the young
branches of spruce.
 -- Hemlock spruce (Bot.), a graceful coniferous tree (Tsuga
Canadensis) of North America. Its timber is valuable, and the bark is
largely used in tanning leather.
 -- Spruce beer. Etym: [G. sprossenbier; sprosse sprout, shoot (akin
to E. sprout, n.) + bier beer. The word was changed into spruce
because the beer came from Prussia (OE. Spruce), or because it was
made from the sprouts of the spruce. See Sprout, n., Beer, and cf.
Spruce, n.] A kind of beer which is tinctured or flavored with
spruce, either by means of the extract or by decoction.
 -- Spruce grouse. (Zool.) Same as Spruce partridge, below.
 -- Spruce leather. See Spruce, n., 3.
 -- Spruce partridge (Zool.), a handsome American grouse (Dendragapus
Canadensis) found in Canada and the Northern United States; -- called
also Canada grouse.

SPRUCE
Spruce, a. [Compar. Sprucer; superl. Sprucest] Etym: [Perhaps fr.
spruce a sort of leather from Prussia, which was an article of
finery. See Spruce, n.]

1. Neat, without elegance or dignity; -- formerly applied to things
with a serious meaning; now chiefly applied to persons. "Neat and
spruce array." Remedy of Love.

2. Sprightly; dashing. [Obs.] "Now, my spruce companions." Shak.
He is so spruce that he can never be genteel. Tatler.

Syn.
 -- Finical; neat; trim. See Finical.
 -- Sruce"ly, adv.
 -- Spruce"ness, n.

SPRUCE
Spruce, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spruced; p. pr. & vb. n. Sprucing.]

Defn: To dress with affected neatness; to trim; to make spruce.

SPRUCE
Spruce, v. i.

Defn: To dress one's self with affected neatness; as, to spruce up.

SPRUE
Sprue, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

1. (Founding)
(a) Strictly, the hole through which melted metal is poured into the
gate, and thence into the mold.
(b) The waste piece of metal cast in this hole; hence, dross.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Sprew.

SPRUG
Sprug, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. sprug up to dress neatly, sprag to
prop, a., lively.]

Defn: To make smart. [Obs.]

SPRUNG
Sprung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Spring.

SPRUNG
Sprung, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Said of a spar that has been cracked or strained.

SPRUNT
Sprunt, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Sprout, v. i.]

Defn: To spring up; to germinate; to spring forward or outward.
[Obs.] To sprunt up, to draw one's self up suddenly, as in anger or
defiance; to bristle up. [Local, U.S.]

SPRUNT
Sprunt, n.

1. Anything short and stiff. [Obs.]

2. A leap; a spring. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

3. A steep ascent in a road. [Prov. Eng.]

SPRUNT
Sprunt, a.

Defn: Active; lively; vigorous. [Obs.] Kersey.

SPRUNTLY
Sprunt"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sprunt manner; smartly; vigorously; youthfully. [Obs.] B.
Jonson.

SPRY
Spry, a. [Compar. Sprier or Spryer (; superl. Spriest or Spryest.]
Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. sprygg lively, skittish, and E. sprag.]

Defn: Having great power of leaping or running; nimble; active. [U.S.
& Local Eng.]
She is as spry as a cricket. S. Judd (Margaret).
If I'm not so large as you, You are not so small as I, And not half
so spry. Emerson.

SPUD
Spud, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. spyd a spear.]

1. A sharp, narrow spade, usually with a long handle, used by farmers
for digging up large-rooted weeds; a similarly shaped implement used
for various purposes.
My spud these nettles from the stone can part. Swyft.

2. A dagger. [Obs.] olland.

3. Anything short and thick; specifically, a piece of dough boiled in
fat. [Local, U.S.]

SPUE
Spue, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Spew.

SPUILZIE
Spuil"zie, n.

Defn: See Spulzie.

SPUKE
Spuke, n.

Defn: See Spook.

SPULLER
Spul"ler (, n. [For spooler.] Etym: [See Spool.]

Defn: One employed to inspect yarn, to see that it is well spun, and
fit for the loom. [Prov. Eng.]

SPULZIE
Spul"zie, n. Etym: [Cf. Spoil.]

Defn: Plunder, or booty. [Written also spuilzie, and spulye.] Sir W.
Scott.

SPUME
Spume, n. Etym: [L. spuma. Cf. Pumice, Spoom.]

Defn: Frothy matter raised on liquids by boiling, effervescence, or
agitation; froth; foam; scum.
Materials dark and crude, Of spiritous and fiery spume. Milton.

SPUME
Spume, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Spumed; p. pr. & vb. n. Spuming.] Etym:
[L. spumare.]

Defn: To froth; to foam.

SPUMEOUS
Spume"ous, a.

Defn: Spumous. [Obs.] r. H. More.

SPUMESCENCE
Spu*mes"cence, n. Etym: [See Spumescent.]

Defn: The state of being foamy; frothiness.

SPUMESCENT
Spu*mes"cent, a. Etym: [L. spumescens, p.pr. of spumescere to grow
foamy, from spuma foam.]

Defn: Resembling froth or foam; foaming.

SPUMID
Spum"id, a. Etym: [L. spumidis.]

Defn: Spumous; frothy. [Obs.]

SPUMIFEROUS
Spu*mif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. spumifier; spuma foam + ferra bear.]

Defn: Producing foam.

SPUMINESS
Spum"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being spumy; spumescence.

SPUMOUS; SPUMY
Spum"ous, Spum"y, a. Etym: [L. spumosus, spuma foam: cf. F. spumeux.]

Defn: Consisting of, containing, or covered with, froth, scum, or
foam; frothy; foamy.
The spumous and florid state of the blood. Arbuthnot.
The spumy waves proclaim the watery war. Dryden.

SPUN
Spun,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Spin. Spun hay, hay twisted into ropes for
convenient carriage, as on a military expedition.
 -- Spun silk, a cheap article produced from floss, or short-fibered,
broken, and waste silk, carded and spun, in distinction from the long
filaments wound from the cocoon. It is often mixed with cotton.
 -- Spun yarn (Naut.), a line formed of two or more rope-yarns
loosely twisted.

SPUNGE
Spunge (spunj), n.

Defn: A sponge. [Obs.]

SPUNK
Spunk (spunk), n. Etym: [Gael. spong, or Ir. sponc, tinder, sponge;
cf. AS. sponge a sponge (L. spongia), spon a chip. Cf. Sponge, Punk.]
[Written also sponk.]

1. Wood that readily takes fire; touchwood; also, a kind of tinder
made from a species of fungus; punk; amadou. Sir T. Browne.

2. An inflammable temper; spirit; mettle; pluck; as, a man of spunk.
[Colloq.]
A lawless and dangerous set, men of spunk, and spirit, and power,
both of mind and body. Prof. Wilson.

SPUNKY
Spunk"y, a. [Compar. Spunkier; superl. Spunkiest.]

Defn: Full of spunk; quick; spirited. [Colloq.]

SPUR
Spur, n. Etym: [See Sparrow.] (Zool.)
(a) A sparrow. [Scot.]
(b) A tern. [Prov. Eng.]

SPUR
Spur, n. Etym: [OE. spure, AS. spura, spora; akin to D. spoor, G.
sporn, OHG. sporo, Icel. spori, Dan. spore, Sw. sporre, and to AS.
spor a trace, footstep, spyrian to trace, track, examine, and E.
spurn. sq. root171. Cf. Sparrow, Spere, Spoor, Spurn.]

1. An implement secured to the heel, or above the heel, of a
horseman, to urge the horse by its pressure. Modern spurs have a
small wheel, or rowel, with short points. Spurs were the badge of
knighthood.
And on her feet a pair of spurs large. Chaucer.

2. That which goads to action; an incitement.
Fame is the spur that the clear spirit doth raise (That last
infirmity of noble mind) To scorn delights and live laborious days.
Milton.

3. Something that projects; a snag.

4. One of the large or principal roots of a tree. Shak.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: Any stiff, sharp spine, as on the wings and legs of certain
burds, on the legs of insects, etc.; especially, the spine on a
cock's leg.

6. A mountain that shoots from any other mountain, or range of
mountains, and extends to some distance in a lateral direction, or at
right angles.

7. A spiked iron worn by seamen upon the bottom of the boot, to
enable them to stand upon the carcass of a whale, to strip off the
blubber.

8. (Carp.)

Defn: A brace strengthening a post and some connected part, as a
rafter or crossbeam; a strut.

9. (Arch.)
(a) The short wooden buttress of a post.
(b) A projection from the round base of a column, occupying the angle
of a square plinth upon which the base rests, or bringing the bottom
bed of the base to a nearly square form. It is generally carved in
leafage.

10. (Bot.)
(a) Any projecting appendage of a flower looking like a spur. Gray.
(b) Ergotized rye or other grain. [R.]

11. (Fort.)

Defn: A wall that crosses a part of a rampart and joins to an inner
wall.

12. (Shipbuilding)
(a) A piece of timber fixed on the bilge ways before launching,
having the upper ends bolted to the vessel's side.
(b) A curved piece of timber serving as a half to support the deck
where a whole beam can not be placed. Spur fowl (Zool.), any one of
several species of Asiatic gallinaceous birds of the genus
Galloperdix, allied to the jungle fowl. The males have two or more
spurs on each leg.
 -- Spur gear (Mach.), a cogwheel having teeth which project radially
and stand parallel to the axis; a spur wheel.
 -- Spur gearing, gearing in which spur gears are used. See under
Gearing.
 -- Spur pepper. (Bot.) See the Note under Capsicum.
 -- Spur wheel. Same as Spur gear, above.

SPUR
Spur, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spurred; p. pr. & vb. n. Spurring.]

1. To prick with spurs; to incite to a more hasty pace; to urge or
goad; as, to spur a horse.

2. To urge or encourage to action, or to a more vigorous pursuit of
an object; to incite; to stimulate; to instigate; to impel; to drive.
Love will not be spurred to what it loathes. Shak.

3. To put spurs on; as, a spurred boot.

SPUR
Spur, v. i.

Defn: To spur on one' horse; to travel with great expedition; to
hasten; hence, to press forward in any pursuit. "Now spurs the lated
traveler." Shak.
The Parthians shall be there, And, spurring from the fight, confess
their fear. Dryden.
The roads leading to the capital were covered with multitudes of
yeomen, spurring hard to Westminster. Macaulay.
Some bold men, . . . by spurring on, refine themselves. Grew.

SPURGALL
Spur"gall`, n.

Defn: A place galled or excoriated by much using of the spur.

SPURGALL
Spur"gall`, v. t.

Defn: To gall or wound with a spur.

SPURGE
Spurge, v. t. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: To emit foam; to froth; -- said of the emission of yeast from
beer in course of fermentation. [Obs.] W. Cartright.

SPURGE
Spurge, n. Etym: [OF. espurge, F. epurge, from OF. espurgier to
purge, L. expurgare. See Expurgate, Purge.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Euphobia. See Euphorbia. Spurge flax, an
evergreen shrub (Daphne Gnidium) with crowded narrow leaves. It is
native of Southern Europe.
 -- Spurge laurel, a European shrub (Daphne Laureola) with oblong
evergreen leaves.
 -- Spurge nettle. See under Nettle.
 -- Spurge olive, an evergreen shrub (Daphne oleoides) found in the
Mediterranean region.

SPURGEWORT
Spurge"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any euphorbiaceous plant. Lindley.

SPURGING
Spur"ging, n. Etym: [See 2d Spurge.]

Defn: A purging. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SPURIOUS
Spu"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. spurius.]

1. Not proceeding from the true source, or from the source pretended;
not genuine; false; adulterate.

2. Not legitimate; bastard; as, spurious issue. "Her spurious
firstborn." Milton. Spurious primary, or Spurious quill (Zool.), the
first, or outer, primary quill when rudimentary or much reduced in
size, as in certain singing birds.
 -- Spurious wing (Zool.), the bastard wing, or alula.

Syn.
 -- Counterfeit; false; adulterate; supposititious; fictitious;
bastard.
 -- Spu"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Spu"ri*ous*ness, n.

SPURLESS
Spur"less, a.

Defn: Having no spurs.

SPURLING
Spur"ling, n. Etym: [See Sparling.] (Zool.)

Defn: A tern. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Tusser.

SPURLING-LINE
Spur"ling-line`, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. spurling the rut of a wheel,
a cart rut, AS. spor a track, trace, E. spoor. Scot. spurl to
sprawl.] (Naut.)

Defn: The line which forms the communication between the steering
wheel and the telltale.

SPURN
Spurn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spurned; p. pr. & vb. n. Spurning.] Etym:
[OE. spurnen to kick against, to stumble over, AS. spurnan to kick,
offend; akin to spura spur, OS. & OHG. spurnan to kick, Icel. spyrna,
L. spernere to despise, Skr. sphur to jerk, to push. sq. root171. See
Spur.]

1. To drive back or away, as with the foot; to kick.
[The bird] with his foot will spurn adown his cup. Chaucer.
I spurn thee like a cur out of my way. Shak.

2. To reject with disdain; to scorn to receive or accept; to treat
with contempt.
What safe and nicely I might well delay By rule of knighthood, I
disdain and spurn. Shak.
Domestics will pay a more cheerful service when they find themselves
not spurned because fortune has laid them at their master's feet.
Locke.

SPURN
Spurn, v. i.

1. To kick or toss up the heels.
The miller spurned at a stone. Chaucer.
The drunken chairman in the kennel spurns. Gay.

2. To manifest disdain in rejecting anything; to make contemptuous
opposition or resistance.
Nay, more, to spurn at your most royal image. Shak.

SPURN
Spurn, n.

1. A kick; a blow with the foot. [R.]
What defence can properly be used in such a despicable encounter as
this but either the slap or the spurn Milton.

2. Disdainful rejection; contemptuous tratment.
The insolence of office and the spurns That patient merit of the
unworthy takes. Shak.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A body of coal left to sustain an overhanding mass.

SPURNER
Spurn"er, n.

Defn: One who spurns.

SPURN-WATER
Spurn"-wa`ter, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A channel at the end of a deck to restrain the water.

SPURRED
Spurred, a.

1. Wearing spurs; furnished with a spur or spurs; having shoots like
spurs.

2. Affected with spur, or ergot; as, spurred rye. Spurred corolla
(Bot.), a corolla in which there are one or more petals with a spur.

SPURRER
Spur"rer, n.

Defn: One who spurs.

SPURREY
Spur"rey, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Spurry.

SPURRIER
Spur"ri*er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make spurs. B. Jonson. "The saddlers
and spurriers would be ruined by thousands." Macaulay.

SPUR-ROYAL
Spur"-roy`al, n.

Defn: A gold coin, first made in the reign of Edward IV., having a
star on the reverse resembling the rowel of a spur. In the reigns of
Elizabeth and of James I., its value was fifteen shillings. [Written
also spur-rial, and spur-ryal.]

SPURRY
Spur"ry, n. Etym: [D. or OF. spurrie; cf. G. spergel, NL. spergula.]
(Bot.)

Defn: An annual herb (Spergula arvensis) with whorled filiform
leaves, sometimes grown in Europe for fodder. [Written also spurrey.]
Sand spurry (Bot.), any low herb of the genus Lepigonum, mostly found
in sandy places.

SPUR-SHELL
Spur"-shell`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of handsome gastropod shells of the
genus Trochus, or Imperator. The shell is conical, with the margin
toothed somewhat like the rowel of a spur.

SPURT
Spurt, v. i. Etym: [Written also spirt, and originally the same word
as sprit; OE. sprutten to sprout, AS. spryttan. See Sprit, v. i.,
Sprout, v. i.]

Defn: To gush or issue suddenly or violently out in a stream, as
liquor from a cask; to rush from a confined place in a small stream
or jet; to spirt.
Thus the small jet, which hasty hands unlock, Spurts in the
gardener's eyes who turns the cock. Pope.

SPURT
Spurt, v. t.

Defn: To throw out, as a liquid, in a stream or jet; to drive or
force out with violence, as a liquid from a pipe or small orifice;
as, to spurt water from the mouth.

SPURT
Spurt, n.

1. A sudden or violent ejection or gushing of a liquid, as of water
from a tube, orifice, or other confined place, or of blood from a
wound; a jet; a spirt.

2. A shoot; a bud. [Obs.] Holland.

3. Fig.: A sudden outbreak; as, a spurt of jealousy. Spurt grass
(Bot.), a rush fit for basket work. Dr. Prior.

SPURT
Spurt, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. sprette a spurt, spring, run, spretta to
sprit, spring.]

Defn: A sudden and energetic effort, as in an emergency; an increased
exertion for a brief space.
The long, steady sweep of the so-called "paddle" tried him almost as
much as the breathless strain of the spurt. T. Hughes.

SPURT
Spurt, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Spurted; p. pr. & vb. n. Spurting.]

Defn: To make a sudden and violent exertion, as in an emergency.

SPURTLE
Spur"tle, v. t. Etym: [Freq. of spurt.]

Defn: To spurt or shoot in a scattering manner. [Obs.] Drayton.

SPURWAY
Spur"way`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. spoor a track, trace (AS. spor) + way.]

Defn: A bridle path. [R.]

SPUR-WINGED
Spur"-winged`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having one or more spurs on the bend of the wings. Spur-winged
goose (Zool.), any one of several species of long-legged African
geese of the genus Plectropterus and allied genera, having a strong
spur on the bend of the wing, as the Gambo goose (P. Gambensis) and
the Egyptian, or Nile, goose (Alopochen ?gyptiaca).
 -- Spur-winged plover (Zool.), an Old World plover (Hoplopterus
spinosus) having a sharp spur on the bend of the wing. It inhabits
Northern Africa and the adjacent parts of Asia and Europe.

SPUT
Sput, n. (Steam Boiler)

Defn: An annular reenforce, to strengthen a place where a hole is
made.

SPUTATION
Spu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. sputare to spit, v. intens. fr. spuere to
spit: cf. F. sputation.]

Defn: The act of spitting; expectoration. Harvey.

SPUTATIVE
Spu"ta*tive, a.

Defn: Inclined to spit; spitting much. Sir H. Wotton.

SPUTE
Spute, v. t. Etym: [Abbrev. from dispute.]

Defn: To dispute; to discuss. [Obs.] Wyclif.

SPUTTER
Sput"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sputtered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sputtering.]
Etym: [From the root of spout or spit to eject from the mputh. Cf.
Splutter.]

1. To spit, or to emit saliva from the mouth in small, scattered
portions, as in rapid speaking.

2. To utter words hastily and indistinctly; to speak so rapidly as to
emit saliva.
They could neither of them speak their rage, and so fell a sputtering
at one another, like two roasting apples. Congreve.

3. To throw out anything, as little jets of steam, with a noise like
that made by one sputtering.
Like the green wood . . . sputtering in the flame. Dryden.

SPUTTER
Sput"ter, v. t.

Defn: To spit out hastily by quick, successive efforts, with a
spluttering sound; to utter hastily and confusedly, without control
over the organs of speech.
In the midst of caresses, and without the last pretend incitement, to
sputter out the basest accusations. Swift.

SPUTTER
Sput"ter, n.

Defn: Moist matter thrown out in small detached particles; also,
confused and hasty speech.

SPUTTERER
Sput"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who sputters.

SPUTUM
Spu"tum, n.; pl. Sputa. Etym: [L., from spuere, sputum, to spit.]

Defn: That which is expectorated; a salival discharge; spittle;
saliva.

SPY
Spy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spied; p. pr. & vb. n. Spying.] Etym: [OE.
spien, espien, OF. espier, F. epier, OHG. speh, G. spahen; akin to L.
specere to see, Skr. spa(Espy, v.t., Aspect, Auspice, Circumspect,
Conspicuouc, Despise, Frontispiece, Inspect, Prospect, Respite,
Scope, Scecimen, Spectacle, Specter, Speculate, Spice, Spite,
Suspicion.]

Defn: To gain sight of; to discover at a distance, or in a state of
concealment; to espy; to see.
One in reading, skipped over all sentences where he spied a note of
admiration. Swift.

2. To discover by close search or examination.
Look about with yout eyes; spy what things are to be reformed in the
church of England. Latimer.

3. To explore; to view; inspect; and examine secretly, as a country;
-- usually with out.
Moses sent to spy Jaazer, and they took the villages thereof. Num.
xxi. 32.

SPY
Spy, v. i.

Defn: To search narrowly; to scrutinize.
It is my nature's plague To spy into abuses. Shak.

SPY
Spy, n.; pl. Spies. Etym: [See Spy, v., and cf. Espy, n.]

1. One who keeps a constant watch of the conduct of others. "These
wretched spies of wit." Dryden.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A person sent secretly into an enemy's camp, territory, or
fortifications, to inspect his works, ascertain his strength,
movements, or designs, and to communicate such intelligence to the
proper officer. Spy money, money paid to a spy; the reward for
private or secret intelligence regarding the enemy.
 -- Spy Wednesday (Eccl.), the Wednesday immediately preceding the
festival of Easter; -- so called in allusion to the betrayal of
Christ by Judas Iscariot.

Syn.
 -- See Emissary, and Scout.

SPYBOAT
Spy"boat`, n.

Defn: A boat sent to make discoveries and bring intelligence.
Arbuthnot.

SPYGLASS
Spy"glass, n.

Defn: A small telescope for viewing distant terrestrial objects.

SPYISM
Spy"ism

Defn: , n. Act or business of spying. [R.]

SPYNACE; SPYNE
Spy"nace, Spyne, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Pinnace, n., 1 (a).

SQUAB
Squab, a. Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. sqvabb a soft and fat body, sqvabba a
fat woman, Icel. kvap jelly, jellylike things, and and E. quab.]

1. Fat; thick; plump; bulky.
Nor the squab daughter nor the wife were nice. Betterton.

2. Unfledged; unfeathered; as, a squab pigeon. King.

SQUAB
Squab, n.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A neatling of a pigeon or other similar bird, esp. when very
fat and not fully fledged.

2. A person of a short, fat figure.
Gorgonious sits abdominous and wan, Like a fat squab upon a Chinese
fan. Cowper.

3. A thickly stuffed cushion; especially, one used for the seat of a
sofa, couch, or chair; also, a sofa.
Punching the squab of chairs and sofas. Dickens.
On her large squab you find her spread. Pope.

SQUAB
Squab, adv. Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. squapp, a word imitative of a
splash, and E. squab fat, unfledged.]

Defn: With a heavy fall; plump. [Vulgar]
The eagle took the tortoise up into the air, and dropped him down,
squab, upon a rock. L'Estrange.

SQUAB
Squab, v. i.

Defn: To fall plump; to strike at one dash, or with a heavy stroke.
[Obs.]

SQUABASH
Squa*bash", v. t.

Defn: To crush; to quash; to squash. [Colloq. or Slang, Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

SQUABBISH
Squab"bish, a.

Defn: Thick; fat; heavy.

SQUABBLE
Squab"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Squabbled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Squabbling.] Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. skvabbel a dispute, skvappa to
chide.]

1. To contend for superiority in an unseemly maner; to scuffle; to
struggle; to wrangle; to quarrel.

2. To debate peevishly; to dispute.
The sense of these propositions is very plain, though logicians might
squabble a whole day whether they should rank them under negative or
affirmative. I. Watts.

Syn.
 -- To dispute; contend; scuffle; wrangle; quarrel; struggle.

SQUABBLE
Squab"ble, v. t. (Print.)

Defn: To disarrange, so that the letters or lines stand awry or are
mixed and need careful readjustment; -- said of type that has been
set up.

SQUABBLE
Squab"ble, n.

Defn: A scuffle; a wrangle; a brawl.

SQUABBLER
Squab"bler, n.

Defn: One who squabbles; a contentious person; a brawler.

SQUABBY
Squab"by, a.

Defn: Short and thick; suqabbish.

SQUAB-CHICK
Squab"-chick`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A young chicken before it is fully fledged. [Prov. Eng.]

SQUACCO
Squac"co, n.; pl. Squaccos (. (Zool.)

Defn: A heron (Ardea comata) found in Asia, Northern Africa, and
Southern Europe.

SQUAD
Squad, n. Etym: [F. escouade, fr. Sp. escuadra, or It. squadra,
(assumed) LL. exquadrare to square; L. ex + quadra a square. See
Square.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A small party of men assembled for drill, inspection, or other
purposes.

2. Hence, any small party.

SQUAD
Squad, n.

Defn: Sloppy mud. [Prov. Eng.] Tennyson.

SQUADRON
Squad"ron, n. Etym: [F. escadron, formerly also esquadron, or It.
squadrone. See Squad.]

1. Primarily, a square; hence, a square body of troops; a body of
troops drawn up in a square. [R.]
Those half-rounding quards Just met, and, closing, stood in squadron
joined. Milton.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A body of cavarly comparising two companies or troops, and
averging from one hundred and twenty to two hundred men.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A detachment of vessels employed on any particular service or
station, under the command of the senior officer; as, the North
Atlantic Squadron. Totten. Flying squadron, a squadron of observation
or practice, that cruises rapidly about from place to place. Ham.
Nav. Encyc.

SQUADRONED
Squad"roned, a.

Defn: Formed into squadrons, or squares. [R.] Milton.

SQUAIL
Squail, v. i.

Defn: To throw sticls at cocks; to throw anything about awkwardly or
irregularly. [Prov. Eng.] Southey.

SQUAIMOUS
Squai"mous, a.

Defn: Squeamish. [Obs.]

SQUALI
Squa"li, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. squalus a kind of sea fish.]
(Zool.)

Defn: The suborder of elasmobranch fishes which comprises the sharks.

SQUALID
Squal"id, a. Etym: [L. squalidus, fr. squalere to be foul or filthy.]

Defn: Dirty through neglect; foul; filthy; extremely dirty.
Uncomed his locks, and squalid his attrie. Dryden.
Those squalid dens, which are the reproach of large capitals.
Macaulay.

SQUALIDITY
Squa*lid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. squaliditas.]

Defn: The quality or state of being squalid; foulness; filthiness.

SQUALIDLY
Squal"id*ly, adv.

Defn: In a squalid manner.

SQUALIDNESS
Squal"id*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being squalid.

SQUALL
Squall, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. sqval an impetuous running of water,
sqvalregn a violent shower of rain, sqala to stream, to gush.]

Defn: A sudden violent gust of wind often attended with rain or snow.
The gray skirts of a lifting squall. Tennyson.
Black squall, a squall attended with dark, heavy clouds.
 -- Thick squall, a black squall accompanied by rain, hail, sleet, or
snow. Totten.
 -- White squall, a squall which comes unexpectedly, without being
marked in its approach by the clouds. Totten.

SQUALL
Squall, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Squalled; p. pr. & vb. n. Squalling.]
Etym: [Icel. skvala. Cf. Squeal.]

Defn: To cry out; to scream or cry violently, as a woman frightened,
or a child in anger or distress; as, the infant squalled.

SQUALL
Squall, n.

Defn: A loud scream; a harsh cry.
There oft are heard the notes of infant woe, -The short, thick sob,
loud scream, and shriller squall. Pope.

SQUALLER
Squall"er, n.

Defn: One who squalls; a screamer.

SQUALLY
Squall"y, a.

1. Abounding with squalls; disturbed often with sudden and violent
gusts of wind; gusty; as, squally weather.

2. (Agric.)

Defn: Interrupted by unproductive spots; -- said of a flied of
turnips or grain. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

3. (Weaving)

Defn: Not equally good throughout; not uniform; uneven; faulty; --
said of cloth.

SQUALODON
Squa"lo*don, n. Etym: [NL. Squalus a genus of sharks + Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fossil whales belonging to the Phocodontia; -- so
called because their are serrated, like a shark's.

SQUALODONT
Squa"lo*dont, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Pertaining to Squalodon.

SQUALOID
Squa"loid, a. Etym: [NL. Squalus a genus of sharks (fr. L. squalus a
kind of sea fish) + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to a shark or sharks.

SQUALOR
Squa"lor, n. Etym: [L., fr. squalere to be foul or filthy.]

Defn: Squalidness; foulness; filthness; squalidity.
The heterogenous indigent multitude, everywhere wearing nearly the
same aspect of squalor. Taylor.
To bring this sort of squalor among the upper classes. Dickens.

SQUAM
Squam, n. [From Squam, shortened fr. Annisquam, name of a village on
the coast of Massachusetts.]

Defn: An oilskin hat or southwester; -- a fisherman's name. [U. S.]

SQUAMA
Squa"ma, n.; pl. Squam?. Etym: [L. a scale.] (Med.)

Defn: A scale cast off from the skin; a thin dry shred consisting of
epithelium.

SQUAMACEOUS
Squa*ma"ceous, a.

Defn: Squamose.

SQUAMATA
Squa*ma"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. squamatus scaly.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of edentates having the body covered with large,
imbricated horny scales. It includes the pangolins.

SQUAMATE; SQUAMATED
Squa"mate, Squa"ma*ted, a. Etym: [L. squamatus.]

Defn: Same as Squamose.

SQUAMDUCK
Squam"duck`. (Zool.)

Defn: The American eider duck. [Local, U.S.]

SQUAME
Squame, n. Etym: [L. squama scale.]

1. A scale. [Obs.] "iron squames." Chaucer.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The scale, or exopodite, of an antenna of a crustacean.

SQUAMELLA
Squa*mel"la, n.; pl. Squamell?. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. L. squama a
scale.] (Bot.)

Defn: A diminutive scale or bractlet, such as those found on the
receptacle in many composite plants; a palea.

SQUAMELLATE
Squa*mel"late, a.

Defn: Furnished or covered with little scales; squamulose.

SQUAMIFORM
Squa"mi*form, a.Etym: [L. squama a scale + -form.]

Defn: Having the shape of a scale.

SQUAMIGEROUS
Squa*mig"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. squamiger; squama a scale + gerere to
bear.] (Zool.)

Defn: Bearing scales.

SQUAMIPEN
Squam"i*pen ( or ), n. ;pl. Squamipennes. Etym: [L. squama a scale +
penna a fin: cf. F. squamipenne.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of a group of fishes having the dorsal and anal fins
partially covered with scales.

Note: They are compressed and mostly, bright-colored tropical fishes,
belonging to Ch?todon and allied genera. Many of them are called
soral fishes, and angel fishes.

SQUAMOID
Squa"moid, a. Etym: [L. squama scale + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling a scale; also, covered with scales; scaly.

SQUAMOSAL
Squa*mo"sal, a. (Anat.)
(a) Scalelike; squamous; as, the squamosal bone.
(b) Of or pertaining to the squamosal bone.
 -- n.

Defn: The squamous part of the temporal bone, or a bone
correspondending to it, under Temporal.

SQUAMOSE; SQUAMOUS
Squa*mose" or, Squa"mous, Etym: [L. squamosus, fr. squama a scale:
cf. F. squameux.]

1. Covered with, or consisting of, scales; resembling a scale; scaly;
as, the squamose cones of the pine; squamous epithelial cells; the
squamous portion of the temporal bone, which is so called from a
fancied resemblance to a scale.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the squamosal bone; squamosal.

SQUAMOZYGOMATIC
Squa`mo*zyg`o*mat"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to both the squamosal and zygomatic bones; --
applied to a bone, or a center of ossification, in some fetal skulls.
 -- n.

Defn: A squamozygomatic bone.

SQUAMULA
Squam"u*la ( or ), n.; pl. Squamul?. Etym: [L., dim. of squama a
scale.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of the little hypogynous scales found in the flowers of
grasses; a lodicule.

SQUAMULATE
Squam"u*late, a.

Defn: Same as Squamulose.

SQUAMULE
Squam"ule, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Squamula.

SQUAMULOSE
Squam"u*lose`, a.

Defn: Having little scales; squamellate; squamulate.

SQUANDER
Squan"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Squandered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Squandering.] Etym: [Cf. Scot. squatter to splash water about, to
scatter, to squander, Prov. E. swatter, Dan. sqvatte, Sw. sqvatta to
squirt, sqvattra to squander, Icel. skvetta to squirt out, to throw
out water.]

1. To scatter; to disperse. [Obs.]
Our squandered troops he rallies. Dryden.

2. To spend lavishly or profusely; to spend prodigally or wastefully;
to use without economy or judgment; to dissipate; as, to squander an
estate.
The crime of squandering health is equal to the folly. Rambler.

Syn.
 -- To spend; expend; waste; scatter; dissipate.

SQUANDER
Squan"der, v. i.

1. To spend lavishly; to be wasteful.
They often squandered, but they never gave. Savage.

2. To wander at random; to scatter. [R.]
The wise man's folly is anatomized Even by squandering glances of the
fool. Shak.

SQUANDER
Squan"der, n.

Defn: The act of squandering; waste.

SQUANDERER
Squan"der*er, n.

Defn: One who squanders.

SQUANDERINGLY
Squan"der*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a squandering manner.

SQUARE
Square, n. Etym: [OF. esquarre, esquierre, F. equerre a carpenter's
square (cf. It. squadra), fr. (assumed) LL. exquadrare to make
square; L. ex + quadrus a square, fr. quattuor four. See Four, and
cf. Quadrant, Squad, Squer a square.]

1. (Geom.)
(a) The corner, or angle, of a figure. [Obs.]
(b) A parallelogram having four equal sides and four right angles.

2. Hence, anything which is square, or nearly so; as:
(a) A square piece or fragment.
He bolted his food down his capacious throat in squares of three
inches. Sir W. Scott.

(b) A pane of glass.
(c) (Print.) A certain number of lines, forming a portion of a
column, nearly square; -- used chiefly in reckoning the prices of
advertisements in newspapers.
(d) (Carp.) One hundred superficial feet.

3. An area of four sides, generally with houses on each side;
sometimes, a solid block of houses; also, an open place or area for
public use, as at the meeting or intersection of two or more streets.
The statue of Alexander VII. stands in the large square of the town.
Addison.

4. (Mech. & Joinery)

Defn: An instrument having at least one right angle and two or more
straight edges, used to lay out or test square work. It is of several
forms, as the T square, the carpenter's square, the try-square., etc.

5. Hence, a pattern or rule. [Obs.]

6. (Arith. & Alg.)

Defn: The product of a number or quantity multiplied by itself; thus,
64 is the square of 8, for 8 ? 8 = 64; the square of a + b is a2 +
2ab + b2.

7. Exact proportion; justness of workmanship and conduct; regularity;
rule. [Obs.]
They of Galatia [were] much more out of square. Hooker.
I have not kept my square. Shak.

8. (Mil.)

Defn: A body of troops formed in a square, esp. one formed to resist
a charge of cavalry; a squadron. "The brave squares of war." Shak.

9. Fig.: The relation of harmony, or exact agreement; equality;
level.
We live not on the square with such as these. Dryden.

10. (Astrol.)

Defn: The position of planets distant ninety degrees from each other;
a quadrate. [Obs.]

11. The act of squaring, or quarreling; a quarrel. [R.]

12. The front of a woman's dress over the bosom, usually worked or
embroidered. [Obs.] Shak. Geometrical square. See Quadrat, n., 2.
 -- Hollow square (Mil.), a formation of troops in the shape of a
square, each side consisting of four or five ranks, and the colors,
officers, horses, etc., occupying the middle.
 -- Least square, Magic square, etc. See under Least, Magic, etc.
 -- On the square, or Upon the square, in an open, fair manner;
honestly, or upon honor. [Obs. or Colloq.] -- On, or Upon, the square
with, upon equality with; even with. Nares.
 -- To be all squares, to be all settled. [Colloq.] Dickens.
 -- To be at square, to be in a state of quarreling. [Obs.] Nares.
 -- To break no square, to give no offense; to make no difference.
[Obs.] -- To break squares, to depart from an accustomed order. To
see how the squares go, to see how the game proceeds; -- a phrase
taken from the game of chess, the chessboard being formed with
squares. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

SQUARE
Square, a.

1. (Geom.)

Defn: Having four equal sides and four right angles; as, a square
figure.

2. Forming a right angle; as, a square corner.

3. Having a shape broad for the height, with rectilineal and angular
rather than curving outlines; as, a man of a square frame.

4. Exactly suitable or correspondent; true; just.
She's a most truimphant lady, if report be square to her. Shak.

5. Rendering equal justice; exact; fair; honest, as square dealing.

6. Even; leaving no balance; as, to make or leave the accounts
square.

7. Leaving nothing; hearty; vigorous.
By Heaven, square eaters. More meat, I say. Beau. & Fl.

8. (Naut.)

Defn: At right angles with the mast or the keel, and parallel to the
horizon; -- said of the yards of a square-rigged vessel when they are
so braced.

Note: Square is often used in self-explaining compounds or
combination, as in square-built, square-cornered, square-cut, square-
nosed, etc. Square foot, an area equal to that of a square the sides
of which are twelwe inches; 144 square inches.
 -- Square knot, a knot in which the terminal and standing parts are
parallel to each other; a reef knot. See Illust. under Knot.
 -- Square measure, the measure of a superficies or surface which
depends on the length and breadth taken conjointly. The units of
square measure are squares whose sides are the linear measures; as,
square inches, square feet, square meters, etc.
 -- Square number. See square, n., 6.
 -- Square root of a number or quantity (Math.), that number or
quantity which, multiplied by itself produces the given number or
quantity.
 -- Square sail (Naut.), a four-sided sail extended upon a yard
suspended by the middle; sometimes, the foresail of a schooner set
upon a yard; also, a cutter's or sloop's sail boomed out. See Illust
of Sail.
 -- Square stern (Naut.), a stern having a transom and joining the
counter timbers at an angle, as distinguished from a round stern,
which has no transom.
 -- Three-square, Five-square, etc., having three, five, etc., equal
sides; as, a three-square file.
 -- To get square with, to get even with; to pay off. [Colloq.]

SQUARE
Square, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Squared; p. pr. & vb. n. Squaring.] Etym:
[Cf. OF. escarrer, esquarrer. See Square, n.]

1. To form with four sides and four right angles. Spenser.

2. To form with right angles and straight lines, or flat surfaces;
as, to square mason's work.

3. To compare with, or reduce to, any given measure or standard.
Shak.

4. To adjust; to regulate; to mold; to shape; to fit; as, to square
our actions by the opinions of others.
Square my trial To my proportioned strength. Milton.

5. To make even, so as leave no remainder of difference; to balance;
as, to square accounts.

6. (Math.)

Defn: To multiply by itself; as, to square a number or a quantity.

7. (Astrol.)

Defn: To hold a quartile position respecting.
The icy Goat and Crab that square the Scales. Creech.

8. (Naut.)

Defn: To place at right angles with the keel; as, to square the
yards. To square one's shoulders, to raise the shoulders so as to
give them a square appearance, -- a movement expressing contempt or
dislike. Sir W. Scott.
 -- To square the circle (Math.), to determine the exact contents of
a circle in square measure. The solution of this famous problem is
now generally admitted to be impossible.

SQUARE
Square, v. i.

1. To accord or agree exactly; to be consistent with; to conform or
agree; to suit; to fit.
No works shall find acceptamce . . . That square not truly with the
Scripture plan. Cowper.

2. To go to opposite sides; to take an attitude of offense or
defense, or of defiance; to quarrel. [Obs.]
Are you such fools To square for this Shak.

3. To take a boxing attitude; -- often with up, sometimes with off.
[Colloq.] Dickens.

SQUARELY
Square"ly, adv.

Defn: In a square form or manner.

SQUARENESS
Square"ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being square; as, an instrument to try the
squareness of work.

SQUARER
Squar"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, squares.

2. One who squares, or quarrels; a hot-headed, contentious fellow.
[Obs.] Shak.

SQUARE-RIGGED
Square"-rigged` (skwar"rigd`), a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having the sails extended upon yards suspended horizontally by
the middle, as distinguished from fore-and-aft sails; thus, a ship
and a brig are square-rigged vessels.

SQUARE-TOED
Square"-toed` (-tod`), n.

Defn: Having the toe square.
Obsolete as fardingales, ruffs, and square-toed shoes. V. Knox.

SQUARE-TOES
Square"-toes`, n.

Defn: A precise person; -- used contemptuously or jocularly.
Thackeray.

SQUARISH
Squar"ish, a.

Defn: Nearly square. Pennant.

SQUARROSE
Squar*rose" ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [L. squarrosus (perhaps) scurfy,
scabby.]

Defn: Ragged or full of lose scales or projecting parts; rough;
jagged; as:
(a) (Bot. & Zool.) Consisting of scales widely divaricating; having
scales, small leaves, or other bodies, spreading widely from the axis
on which they are crowded; -- said of a calyx or stem. (b) (Bot.)

Defn: Divided into shreds or jags, raised above the plane of the
leaf, and not parallel to it; said of a leaf.
(c) (Zool.) Having scales spreading every way, or standing upright,
or at right angles to the surface; -- said of a shell. Squarrose-
slashed (Bot.), doubly slashed, with the smaller divisions at right
angles to the others, as a leaf. Landley.

SQUARROSO-DENTATE
Squar*ro`so-den"tate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the teeth bent out of the plane of the lamina; -- said
of a leaf.

SQUARROUS
Squar"rous ( or ), a.

Defn: Squarrose.

SQUARRULOSE
Squar"ru*lose`, a. Etym: [Dim. of squarrose.] (Bot.)

Defn: Somewhat squarrose; slightly squarrose. Gray.

SQUASH
Squash, n. Etym: [Cf. Musquash.] (Zool.)

Defn: An American animal allied to the weasel. [Obs.] Goldsmith.

SQUASH
Squash, n. Etym: [Massachusetts Indian asq, pl. asquash, raw, green,
immaturate, applied to fruit and vegetables which were used when
green, or without cooking; askutasquash vine apple.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant and its fruit of the genus Cucurbita, or gourd kind.

Note: The species are much confused. The long-neck squash is called
Cucurbita verrucosa, the Barbary or China squash, C. moschata, and
the great winter squash, C. maxima, but the distinctions are not
clear. Squash beetle (Zool.), a small American beetle (Diabrotica, or
Galeruca vittata) which is often abundant and very injurious to the
leaves of squash, cucumber, etc. It is striped with yellow and black.
The name is applied also to other allied species.
 -- Squash bug (Zool.), a large black American hemipterous insect
(Coreus, or Anasa, tristis) injurious to squash vines.

SQUASH
Squash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Squashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Squashing.]
Etym: [OE. squashen, OF. escachier, esquachier, to squash, to crush,
F. ecacher, perhaps from (assumed) LL. excoacticare, fr. L. ex +
coactare to constrain, from cogere, coactum, to compel. Cf. Cogent,
Squat, v. i.]

Defn: To beat or press into pulp or a flat mass; to crush.

SQUASH
Squash, n.

1. Something soft and easily crushed; especially, an unripe pod of
pease.
Not yet old enough for a man, nor young enough for a boy; as a squash
is before 't is a peascod. Shak.

2. Hence, something unripe or soft; -- used in contempt. "This
squash, this gentleman." Shak.

3. A sudden fall of a heavy, soft body; also, a shock of soft bodies.
Arbuthnot.
My fall was stopped by a terrible squash. Swift.

SQUASHER
Squash"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, squashes.

SQUASHINESS
Squash"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being squashy, or soft.

SQUASHY
Squash"y, a.

Defn: Easily squashed; soft.

SQUAT
Squat, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The angel fish (Squatina angelus

SQUAT
Squat, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Squatted; p. pr. & vb. n. Squatting.]
Etym: [OE. squatten to crush, OF. esquater, esquatir (cf. It. quatto
squat, cowering), perhaps fr. L. ex + coactus, p. p. cogere to drive
or urge together. See Cogent, Squash, v. t.]

1. To sit down upon the hams or heels; as, the savages squatted near
the fire.

2. To sit close to the ground; to cower; to stoop, or lie close, to
escape observation, as a partridge or rabbit.

3. To settle on another's land without title; also, to settle on
common or public lands.

SQUAT
Squat, v. t.

Defn: To bruise or make flat by a fall. [Obs.]

SQUAT
Squat, a.

1. Sitting on the hams or heels; sitting close to the ground;
cowering; crouching.
Him there they found, Squat like a toad, close at the ear of Eve.
Milton.

2. Short and thick, like the figure of an animal squatting. "The
round, squat turret." R. Browning.
The head [of the squill insect] is broad and squat. Grew.

SQUAT
Squat, n.

1. The posture of one that sits on his heels or hams, or close to the
ground.

2. A sudden or crushing fall. [Obs.] erbert.

3. (Mining)
(a) A small vein of ore.
(b) A mineral consisting of tin ore and spar. Halliwell. Woodward.
Squat snipe (Zool.), the jacksnipe; -- called also squatter. [Local,
U.S.]

SQUATEROLE
Squat"er*ole, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The black-bellied plover.

SQUATTER
Squat"ter, n.

1. One who squats; specifically, one who settles unlawfully upon land
without a title. In the United States and Australia the term is
sometimes applied also to a person who settles lawfully upon
government land under permission and restrictions, before acquiring
title.
In such a tract, squatters and trespassers were tolerated to an
extent now unknown. Macaulay.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: See Squat snipe, under Squat. Squatter sovereignty, the right
claimed by the squatters, or actual residents, of a Territory of the
United States to make their own laws. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett.

SQUATTY
Squat"ty, a.

Defn: Squat; dumpy. J. Burroughs.

SQUAW
Squaw, n. Etym: [Massachusetts Indian squa, eshqua; Narragansett
squaws; Delaware ochqueu, and khqueu; used also in compound words (as
the names of animals) in the sense of female.]

Defn: A female; a woman; -- in the language of Indian tribes of the
Algonquin family, correlative of sannup. Old squaw. (Zool.) See under
Old.

SQUAWBERRY
Squaw"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A local name for the partridge berry; also, for the deerberry.
[U. S.]

SQUAWK
Squawk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Squawked; p. pr. & vb. n. Squawking.]
Etym: [See Squeak.]

Defn: To utter a shrill, abrupt scream; to squeak harshly. Squawking
thrush (Zool.), the missel turush; -- so called from its note when
alarmed. [Prov. Eng.]

SQUAWK
Squawk, n.

1. Act of squawking; a harsh squeak.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The American night heron. See under Night. Squawk duck (Zool.),
the bimaculate duck (Anas glocitans). It has patches of reddish brown
behind, and in front of, each eye. [Prov. Eng.]

SQUAWL
Squawl, v. i.

Defn: See Squall.

SQUAW MAN
Squaw man.

Defn: A white man who has married an Indian squaw; sometimes, one who
has gained tribal rights by such a marriage; -- often a term of
contempt. [Western U. S.]

SQUAWROOT
Squaw"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A scaly parasitic plant (Conopholis Americana) found in oak
woods in the United States; -- called also cancer root.

SQUAW VINE
Squaw vine. (Bot.)

Defn: The partridge berry (Mitchella repens).

SQUAWWEED
Squaw"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The golden ragwort. See under Ragwort.

SQUEAK
Squeak, v. i. [imp.& p. p. Squaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Squeaking.] Etym:
[Probably of imitative origin; cf. Sw. sqvaka to croak, Icel. skvakka
to give a sound as of water shaken in a bottle.]

1. To utter a sharp, shrill cry, usually of short duration; to cry
with an acute tone, as an animal; or, to make a sharp, disagreeable
noise, as a pipe or quill, a wagon wheel, a door; to creak.
Who can endure to hear one of the rough old Romans squeaking through
the mouth of an eunuch Addison.
Zoilus calls the companions of Ulysses the "squeaking pigs" of Homer.
Pope.

2. To break silence or secrecy for fear of pain or punishment; to
speak; to confess. [Colloq.]
If he be obstinate, put a civil question to him upon the rack, and he
squeaks, I warrant him. Dryden.

SQUEAK
Squeak, n.

Defn: A sharp, shrill, disagreeable sound suddenly utered, either of
the human voice or of any animal or instrument, such as is made by
carriage wheels when dry, by the soles of leather shoes, or by a pipe
or reed.

SQUEAKER
Squeak"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, squeaks.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The Australian gray crow shrile (Strepera anaphonesis); -- so
called from its note.

SQUEAKINGLY
Squeak"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a squeaking manner.

SQUEAL
Squeal, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Squealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Squealing.]
Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Sw. sqvala, Norw. skvella. Cf. Squeak,
Squall.]

1. To cry with a sharp, shrill, prolonged sound, as certain animals
do, indicating want, displeasure, or pain.

2. To turn informer; to betray a secret. [Slang]

SQUEAL
Squeal, n.

Defn: A shrill, somewhat prolonged cry.

SQUEALER
Squeal"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, squeals.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The European swift.
(b) The harlequin duck.
(c) The American golden plover.

SQUEAMISH
Squeam"ish, a. Etym: [OE. squaimous, sweymous, probably from OE.
sweem, swem, dizziness, a swimming in the head; cf. Icel. svemr a
bustle, a stir, Norw. sveim a hovering about, a sickness that comes
upon one, Icel. svimi a giddiness, AS. swimi. The word has been
perhaps confused witrh qualmish. Cf. Swim to be dizzy.]

Defn: Having a stomach that is easily or nauseated; hence, nice to
excess in taste; fastidious; easily disgusted; apt to be offended at
trifling improprieties.
Quoth he, that honor's very squeamish That takes a basting for a
blemish. Hudibras.
His muse is rustic, and perhaps too plain The men of squeamish taste
to entertain. Southern.
So ye grow squeamish, Gods, and sniff at heaven. M. Arnold.

Syn.
 -- Fastidious; dainty; overnice; scrupulous. See Fastidious.
 -- Squeam"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Squeam"ish*ness, n.

SQUEAMOUS
Squeam"ous, a.

Defn: Squeamish. [Obs.]

SQUEASINESS
Squea"si*ness, n.

Defn: Queasiness. [Obs.]

SQUEASY
Squea"sy, a.

Defn: Queasy; nice; squeamish; fastidious; scrupulous. [Obs.] Bp.
Earle.

SQUEEGEE
Squee"gee, n.

Defn: Same as Squilgee.

SQUEEGEE ROLLER
Squeegee roller.

Defn: A small India-rubber roller with a handle, used esp. in
printing and photography as a squeegee.

SQUEEZE
Squeeze, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Squeezed; p. pr. & vb. n. Squeezing.]
Etym: [OE. queisen, AS. cwesan, cwysan, cwisan, of uncertain origin.
The s- was probably prefixed through the influence of squash, v.t.]

1. To press between two bodies; to press together closely; to
compress; often, to compress so as to expel juice, moisture, etc.;
as, to squeeze an orange with the fingers; to squeeze the hand in
friendship.

2. Fig.: To oppress with hardships, burdens, or taxes; to harass; to
crush.
In a civil war, people must expect to be crushed and squeezed toward
the burden. L'Estrange.

3. To force, or cause to pass, by compression; often with out,
through, etc.; as, to squeeze water through felt.

Syn.
 -- To compress; hug; pinch; gripe; crowd.

SQUEEZE
Squeeze, v. i.

Defn: To press; to urge one's way, or to pass, by pressing; to crowd;
-- often with through, into, etc.; as, to squeeze hard to get through
a crowd.

SQUEEZE
Squeeze, n.

1. The act of one who squeezes; compression between bodies; pressure.

2. A facsimile impression taken in some soft substance, as pulp, from
an inscription on stone.

SQUEEZER
Squeez"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, squeezes; as, a lemon squeezer.

2. (Forging)
(a) A machine like a large pair of pliers, for shingling, or
squeezing, the balls of metal when puddled; -- used only in the
plural.
(b) A machine of several forms for the same purpose; -- used in the
singular.

SQUEEZING
Squeez"ing, n.

1. The act of pressing; compression; oppression.

2. pl.

Defn: That which is forced out by pressure; dregs.

3. Same as Squeeze, n., 2.

SQUELCH
Squelch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Squelched; p. pr. & vb. n. Squelching.]
Etym: [Cf. prov. E. quelch a blow, and quel to crush, to kill.]

Defn: To quell; to crush; to silence or put down. [Colloq.]
Oh 't was your luck and mine to be squelched. Beau. & Fl.
If you deceive us you will be squelched. Carlyle.

SQUELCH
Squelch, n.

Defn: A heavy fall, as of something flat; hence, also, a crushing
reply. [Colloq.] Hudibras.

SQUETEAGUE
Sque*teague" (skwe*teg"), n. Etym: [from the North American Indian
name.] (Zool.)

Defn: An American sci?noid fish (Cynoscion regalis), abundant on the
Atlantic coast of the United States, and much valued as a food fish.
It is of a bright silvery color, with iridescent reflections. Called
also weakfish, squitee, chickwit, and sea trout. The spotted
squeteague (C. nebulosus) of the Southern United States is a similar
fish, but the back and upper fins are spotted with black. It is
called also spotted weakfish, and, locally, sea trout, and sea
salmon.

SQUIB
Squib, n. Etym: [OE. squippen, swippen, to move swiftky, Icel. svipa
to swoop, flash, dart, whip; akin to AS. swipian to whip, and E.
swift, a. See Swift, a.]

1. A little pipe, or hollow cylinder of paper, filled with powder or
combustible matter, to be thrown into the air while burning, so as to
burst there with a crack.
Lampoons, like squibs, may make a present blaze. Waller.
The making and selling of fireworks, and squibs . . . is punishable.
Blackstone.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A kind of slow match or safety fuse.

3. A sarcastic speech or publication; a petty lampoon; a brief, witty
essay.
Who copied his squibs, and reechoed his jokes. Goldsmith.

4. A writer of lampoons. [Obs.]
The squibs are those who in the common phrase of the world are called
libelers, lampooners, and pamphleteers. Tatler.

5. A paltry fellow. [Obs.] Spenser.

SQUIB
Squib, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Squibbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Squibbing.]

Defn: To throw squibs; to utter sarcatic or severe reflections; to
contend in petty dispute; as, to squib a little debate. [Colloq.]

SQUID
Squid, n. Etym: [Cf. Squirt.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of ten-armed cephalopods having a
long, tapered body, and a caudal fin on each side; especially, any
species of Loligo, Ommastrephes, and related genera. See Calamary,
Decacerata, Dibranchiata.

Note: Some of these squids are very abundant on the Atlantic coast of
North America, and are used in large quantities for bait, especially
in the cod fishery. The most abundant of the American squids are the
northern squid (Ommastrephes illecebrosus), ranging from Southern New
England to Newfoundland, and the southern squid (Loligo Pealii),
ranging from Virginia to Massachusetts.

2. A fishhook with a piece of bright lead, bone, or other substance,
fastened on its shank to imitate a squid. Flying squid, Giant squid.
(Zool.) See under Flying, and Giant.
 -- Squid hound (Zool.), the striped bass.

SQUIER
Squier, n.

Defn: A square. See 1st Squire. [Obs.]
Not the worst of the three but jumps twelve foot and a half by the
squier. Shak.

SQUIERIE; SQUIERY
Squi"er*ie, Squi"er*y, (, n. Etym: [OF. escuiere. See Esquire.]

Defn: A company of squires; the whole body of squires.

Note: This word is found in Tyrwhitt's Chaucer, but is not in the
modern editions.

SQUIFFY
Squif"fy, a.

Defn: Somewhat intoxicated; tipsy. [Slang]  Kipling.

SQUIGGLE
Squig"gle, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. swiggle to drink greedily, to
shake liquor in a close vessel, and E. sqig.]

Defn: To shake and wash a fluid about in the mouth with the lips
closed. [Prov. Eng.] Forby.

SQUIGGLE
Squig"gle, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Squirm, Wiggle.]

Defn: To move about like an eel; to squirm. [Low, U.S.] Bartlett.

SQUILGEE
Squil"gee, n.

Defn: Formerly, a small swab for drying a vessel's deck; now, a kind
of scraper having a blade or edge of rubber or of leather, -- used
for removing superfluous, water or other liquids, as from a vessel's
deck after washing, from window panes, photographer's plates, etc.
[Written also squillgee, squillagee, squeegee.]

SQUILL
Squill, n. Etym: [F. squille (also scille a squill, in sense 1), L.
squilla, scilla, Gr.

1. (Bot.)
(a) A European bulbous liliaceous plant (Urginea, formerly Scilla,
maritima), of acrid, expectorant, diuretic, and emetic properties
used in medicine. Called also sea onion.
(b) Any bulbous plant of the genus Scilla; as, the bluebell squill
(S. mutans).

2. (Zool.)
(a) A squilla.
(b) A mantis.

SQUILLA
Squil"la, n.; pl. E. Squillas, L. Squill?. Etym: [L., a sea onion,
also, a prawn or shrimp. See Squill.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous stomapod crustaceans of the genus Squilla
and allied genera. They make burrows in mud or beneath stones on the
seashore. Called also mantis shrimp. See Illust. under Stomapoda.

SQUILLITIC
Squill*it"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to squills. [R.] "Squillitic vinegar."
Holland.

SQUINANCE; SQUINANCY
Squin"ance, Squin"an*cy, n. Etym: [F. esquinancie, OF. squinance,
esquinance. See Quinsy.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: The quinsy. See Quinsy. [Obs.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A European perennial herb (Asperula cynanchica) with narrowly
linear whorled leaves; -- formerly thought to cure the quinsy. Also
called quincewort. Squinancy berries, black currants; -- so called
because used to cure the quinsy. Dr. Prior.

SQUINCH
Squinch, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. sconce.] (Arch.)

Defn: A small arch thrown across the corner of a square room to
support a superimposed mass, as where an octagonal spire or drum
rests upon a square tower; -- called also sconce, and sconcheon.

SQUINSY
Squin"sy, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Quinsy. [Obs.]

SQUINT
Squint, a. Etym: [Cf. D. schuinte a slope, schuin, schuinisch,
sloping, oblique, schuins slopingly. Cf. Askant, Askance, Asquint.]

1. Looking obliquely. Specifically (Med.), not having the optic axes
coincident; -- said of the eyes. See Squint, n., 2.

2. Fig.: Looking askance. "Squint suspicion." Milton.

SQUINT
Squint, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Squinted; p. pr. & vb. n. Squinting.]

1. To see or look obliquely, asquint, or awry, or with a furtive
glance.
Some can squint when they will. Bacon.

2. (Med.)

Defn: To have the axes of the eyes not coincident; -- to be cross-
eyed.

3. To deviate from a true line; to run obliquely.

SQUINT
Squint, v. t.

1. To turn to an oblique position; to direct obliquely; as, to squint
an eye.

2. To cause to look with noncoincident optic axes.
He . . . squints the eye, and makes the harelid. Shak.

SQUINT
Squint, n.

1. The act or habit of squinting.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A want of coincidence of the axes of the eyes; strabismus.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Hagioscope.

SQUINTER
Squint"er, n.

Defn: One who squints.

SQUINT-EYE
Squint"-eye`, n.

Defn: An eye that squints. Spenser.

SQUINT-EYED
Squint"-eyed`, a.

1. Having eyes that quint; having eyes with axes not coincident;
cross-eyed.

2. Looking obliquely, or asquint; malignant; as, squint-eyed praise;
squint-eyed jealousy.

SQUINTIFEGO
Squint`i*fe"go, a.

Defn: Squinting. [Obs. & R.]

SQUINTING
Squint"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Squint, v.
 -- Squint"ing*ly, adv.

SQUINY
Squin"y, v. i.

Defn: To squint. [Obs.] Shak.

SQUINZEY
Squin"zey, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Quinsy. [Obs.]

SQUIR; SQUIRR
Squir, v. t.

Defn: To throw with a jerk; to throw edge foremost. [Obs.] [Written
also squirr.] Addison.

SQUIRALTY
Squir"al*ty, n.

Defn: Same as Squirarchy.
That such weight and influence be put thereby into the hands of the
squiralty of my kingdom. Sterne.

SQUIRARCH
Squir"arch, n. Etym: [Squire + -arch.]

Defn: One who belongs to the squirarchy.
 -- Squir"arch*al, a.

SQUIRARCHY
Squir"arch*y, n. Etym: [Squire + -archy.]

Defn: The gentlemen, or gentry, of a country, collectively. [Written
also squirearchy.]

SQUIRE
Squire, n. Etym: [OF. esquierre, F. equerre. See Square, n.]

Defn: A square; a measure; a rule. [Obs.] "With golden squire."
Spenser.

SQUIRE
Squire, n. Etym: [Aphetic form of esquire.]

1. A shield-bearer or armor-bearer who attended a knight.

2. A title of dignity next in degree below knight, and above
gentleman. See Esquire. [Eng.] "His privy knights and squires."
Chaucer.

3. A male attendant on a great personage; also (Colloq.), a devoted
attendant or follower of a lady; a beau.

4. A title of office and courtesy. See under Esquire.

SQUIRE
Squire, v. t. [imp. & p. p. squired; p. pr. & vb. n. squiring.]

1. To attend as a squire. Chaucer.

2. To attend as a beau, or gallant, for aid and protection; as, to
squire a lady. [Colloq.] Goldsmith.

SQUIREEN
Squir*een", n.

Defn: One who is half squire and half farmer; -- used humorously.
[Eng.] C. Kingsley.

SQUIREHOOD
Squire"hood, n.

Defn: The rank or state of a squire; squireship. Swift.

SQUIRELING
squire"ling, n.

Defn: A petty squire. Tennyson.

SQUIRELY
Squire"ly, a. & adv.

Defn: Becoming a squire; like a squire.

SQUIRESHIP
squire"ship, n.

Defn: Squirehood.

SQUIRM
Squirm, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Squirmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Squirming.]
Etym: [Cf. Swarm to climb a tree.]

Defn: To twist about briskly with contor

SQUIRR
Squirr, v. t.

Defn: See Squir.

SQUIRREL
Squir"rel ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [OE. squirel, OF. esquirel, escurel,
F. ecureuil, LL. squirelus, squirolus, scuriolus, dim. of L. sciurus,
Gr. si`oyros; skia` shade + o'yra` tail. Cf. Shine, v. i.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small rodents belonging to the
genus Sciurus and several allied genera of the famly Sciurid?.
Squirrels generally have a bushy tail, large erect ears, and strong
hind legs. They are commonly arboreal in their habits, but many
species live in burrows.

Note: Among the common North American squirrels are the gray squirrel
(Scirius Carolinensis) and its black variety; the fox, or cat,
sqirrel (S. cinereus, or S. niger) which is a large species, and
variable in color, the southern variety being frequently black, while
the northern and western varieties are usually gray or rusty brown;
the red squirrel (see Chickaree); the striped, or chipping, squirrel
(see Chipmunk); and the California gray squirrel (S. fossor). Several
other species inhabit Mexico and Central America. The common European
species (Sciurus vulgaris) has a long tuft of hair on each ear. the
so-called Australian squirrels are marsupials. See Petaurist, and
Phalanger.

2. One of the small rollers of a carding machine which work with the
large cylinder. Barking squirrel (Zool.), the prairie dog.
 -- Federation squirrel (Zool.), the striped gopher. See Gopher, 2.
 -- Flying squirrel (Zool.). See Flying squirrel, in the Vocabulary.
 -- Java squirrel (Zool.). See Jelerang.
 -- Squirrel corn (Bot.), a North American herb (Dicantra Canadensis)
bearing little yellow tubers.
 -- Squirrel cup (Bot.), the blossom of the Hepatica triloba, a low
perennial herb with cup-shaped flowers varying from purplish blue to
pink or even white. It is one of the earliest flowers of spring.
 -- Squirrel fish (Zool.) (a) A sea bass (Serranus fascicularis) of
the Southern United States. (b) The sailor's choice (Diplodus
rhomboides). (c) The redmouth, or grunt. (d) A market fish of Bermuda
(Holocentrum Ascensione).
 -- Squirrel grass (Bot.), a pestiferous grass (Hordeum murinum)
related to barley. In California the stiffly awned spiklets work into
the wool of sheep, and into the throat, flesh, and eyes of animals,
sometimes even producing death.
 -- Squirrel hake (Zool.), a common American hake (Phycis tenuis); --
called also white hake.
 -- Squirrel hawk (Zool.), any rough-legged hawk; especially, the
California species Archibuteo ferrugineus.
 -- Squirrel monkey. (Zool.) (a) Any one of several species of small,
soft-haired South American monkeys of the genus Calithrix. They are
noted for their graceful form and agility. See Teetee. (b) A
marmoset.
 -- Squirrel petaurus (Zool.), a flying phalanger of Australia. See
Phalanger, Petaurist, and Flying phalanger under Flying.
 -- Squirrel shrew (Zool.), any one of several species of East Indian
and Asiatic insectivores of the genus Tupaia. They are allied to the
shrews, but have a bushy tail, like that of a squirrel.
 -- Squirrel-tail grass (Bot.), a grass (Hordeum jubatum) found in
salt marshes and along the Great Lakes, having a dense spike beset
with long awns.

SQUIRT
Squirt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Squirted; p. pr. & vb. n. Squirting.]
Etym: [Cf. LG. swirtjen to squirt, OSw. sqvatta, E. squander.]

Defn: To drive or eject in a stream out of a narrow pipe or orifice;
as, to squirt water.
The hard-featured miscreant coolly rolled his tobacco in his cheek,
and squirted the juice into the fire grate. Sir W. Scott.
Squirting cucumber. (Bot.) See Ecballium.

SQUIRT
Squirt, v. i.

1. To be thrown out, or ejected, in a rapid stream, from a narrow
orifice; -- said of liquids.

2. Hence, to throw out or utter words rapidly; to prate. [Low]
L'Estrange.

SQUIRT
Squirt, n.

1. An instrument out of which a liquid is ejected in a small stream
with force. Young.

2. A small, quick stream; a jet. Bacon.

SQUIRTER
Squirt"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, squirts.

SQUIRY
Squir"y, n. Etym: [See Squiery.]

Defn: The body of squires, collectively considered; squirarchy.
[Obs.]
The flower of chivalry and squiry. Ld. Berbers.

SQUITCH GRASS
Squitch" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: Quitch grass.

SQUITEE
Squi*tee", n. Etym: [From the N. American Indian name.] (Zool.)

Defn: The squeteague; -- called also squit.

STAB
Stab, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stabbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stabbing.] Etym:
[Cf. OD. staven to fix, fasten, fr. stave, staff, a staff, rod; akin
to G. stab a staff, stick, E. staff; also Gael. stob to stab, as n.,
a stake, a stub. Cf. Staff.]

1. To pierce with a pointed weapon; to wound or kill by the thrust of
a pointed instrument; as, to stab a man with a dagger; also, to
thrust; as, to stab a dagger into a person.

2. Fig.: To injure secretly or by malicious falsehood or slander; as,
to stab a person's reputation.

STAB
Stab, v. i.

1. To give a wound with a pointed weapon; to pierce; to thrust with a
pointed weapon.
None shall dare With shortened sword to stab in closer war. Dryden.

2. To wound or pain, as if with a pointed weapon.
She speaks poniards, and every word stabs. Shak.
To stab at, to offer or threaten to stab; to thrust a pointed weapon
at.

STAB
Stab, n.

1. The thrust of a pointed weapon.

2. A wound with a sharp-pointed weapon; as, to fall by the stab an
assassin. Shak.

3. Fig.: An injury inflicted covertly or suddenly; as, a stab given
to character.

STABAT MATER
Sta"bat Ma"ter. Etym: [L., the mother was standing.]

Defn: A celebrated Latin hymn, beginning with these words,
commemorating the sorrows of the mother of our Lord at the foot of
the cross. It is read in the Mass of the Sorrows of the Virgin Mary,
and is sung by Catholics when making "the way of the cross" (Via
Crucis). See Station, 7 (c).

STABBER
Stab"ber, n.

1. One who, or that which, stabs; a privy murderer.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A small marline spike; a pricker.

STABBINGLY
Stab"bing*ly, adv.

Defn: By stabbing; with intent to injure covertly. Bp. Parker.

STAB CULTURE
Stab culture. (Bacteriol.)

Defn: A culture made by inoculating a solid medium, as gelatin, with
the puncture of a needle or wire. The growths are usually of
characteristic form.

STABILIMENT
Sta*bil"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. stabilimentum, fr.stabilire to make firm
ir stable, fr. stabilis. See Stable, a.]

Defn: The act of making firm; firm support; establishment. [R.] Jer.
taylor.
They serve for stabiliment, propagation, and shade. Derham.

STABILITATE
Sta*bil"i*tate, v. t. Etym: [LL. stabilitatus, p.p. of stabilitare to
make stable.]

Defn: To make stable; to establish. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

STABILITY
Sta*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. stabilitas; cf. F. stabilite. See Stable,
a.]

1. The state or quality of being stable, or firm; steadiness;
firmness; strength to stand without being moved or overthrown; as,
the stability of a structure; the stability of a throne or a
constitution.

2. Steadiness or firmness of character, firmness of resolution or
purpose; the quality opposite to Ant: fickleness, Ant: irresolution,
or Ant: inconstancy; constancy; steadfastness; as, a man of little
stability, or of unusual stability.

3. Fixedness; -- as opposed to Ant: fluidity.
Since fluidness and stability are contary qualities. Boyle.

Syn.
 -- Steadiness; stableness; constancy; immovability; firmness.

STABLE
Sta"ble, a. Etym: [OE. estable, F. stable, fr. L. stabilis, fr. stare
to stand. See Stand, v. i. and cf. Establish.]

1. Firmly established; not easily moved, shaken, or overthrown;
fixed; as, a stable government.
In this region of chance, . . . where nothing is stable. Rogers.

2. Steady in purpose; constant; firm in resolution; not easily
diverted from a purpose; not fickle or wavering; as, a man of stable
character.
And to her husband ever meek and stable. Chaucer.

3. Durable; not subject to overthrow or change; firm; as, a stable
foundation; a stable position. Stable equibrium (Mech.), the kind of
equilibrium of a body so placed that if disturbed it returns to its
former position, as in the case when the center of gravity is below
the point or axis of support; -- opposed to unstable equilibrium, in
which the body if disturbed does not tend to return to its former
position, but to move farther away from it, as in the case of a body
supported at a point below the center of gravity. Cf. Neutral
equilibrium, under Neutral.

Syn.
 -- Fixed; steady; constant; abiding; strong; durable; firm.

STABLE
Sta"ble, v. t.

Defn: To fix; to establish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STABLE
Sta"ble, n. Etym: [OF. estable, F. etable, from L. stabulum, fr.
stare to stand. See Stand, v. i.]

Defn: A house, shed, or building, for beasts to lodge and feed in;
esp., a building or apartment with stalls, for horses; as, a horse
stable; a cow stable. Milton. Stable fly (Zool.), a common dipterous
fly (Stomoxys calcitrans) which is abundant about stables and often
enters dwellings, especially in autumn. These files, unlike the
common house files, which they resemble, bite severely, and are
troublesome to horses and cattle.

STABLE
Sta"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stabled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stabling.]

Defn: To put or keep in a stable.

STABLE
Sta"ble, v. i.

Defn: To dwell or lodge in a stable; to dwell in an inclosed place;
to kennel. Milton.

STABLEBOY; STABLEMAN
Sta"ble*boy`, Sta"ble*man, n.

Defn: A boy or man who attends in a stable; a groom; a hostler.

STABLENESS
Sta"ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stable, or firmly established;
stability.

STABLER
Sta"bler, n.

Defn: A stable keeper. De Foe.

STABLE STAND
Sta"ble stand`. (O.Eng. Law)

Defn: The position of a man who is found at his standing in the
forest, with a crossbow or a longbow bent, ready to shoot at a deer,
or close by a tree with greyhounds in a leash ready to slip; -- one
of the four presumptions that a man intends stealing the king's deer.
Wharton.

STABLING
Sta"bling, n.

1. The act or practice of keeping horses and cattle in a stable.

2. A building, shed, or room for horses and cattle.

STABLISH
Stab"lish, v. t. Etym: [Aphetic form of establish.]

Defn: To settle permanently in a state; to make firm; to establish;
to fix. [Obs.] 2 Sam. vii. 13.

STABLISHMENT
Stab"lish*ment, n.

Defn: Establishment. [Obs.]

STABLY
Sta"bly, adv.

Defn: In a stable manner; firmly; fixedly; steadily; as, a government
stably settled.

STABULATION
Stab`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. stabulatio, fr. stabulari to stable
cattle, fr. stabulum. See Stable, n.]

1. The act of stabling or housing beasts.

2. A place for lodging beasts; a stable. [Obs.]

STACCATO
Stac*ca"to, a. Etym: [It., p.p. of staccere, equivalent to
distaccare. See Detach.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: Disconnected; separated; distinct; -- a direction to perform
the notes of a passage in a short, distinct, and pointed manner. It
is opposed to legato, and often indicated by heavy accents written
over or under the notes, or by dots when the performance is to be
less distinct and emphatic.

2. Expressed in a brief, pointed manner.
Staccato and peremptory [literary criticism]. G. Eliot.

STACK
Stack, a. Etym: [Icel. stakkr; akin to Sw. stack, Dan. stak. Sf.
Stake.]

1. A large pile of hay, grain, straw, or the like, usually of a
nearly conical form, but sometimes rectangular or oblong, contracted
at the top to a point or ridge, and sometimes covered with thatch.
But corn was housed, and beans were in the stack. Cowper.

2. A pile of poles or wood, indefinite in quantity.
Against every pillar was a stack of billets above a man's height.
Bacon.

3. A pile of wood containing 108 cubic feet. [Eng.]

4. (Arch.)
(a) A number of flues embodied in one structure, rising above the
roof. Hence:
(b) Any single insulated and prominent structure, or upright pipe,
which affords a conduit for smoke; as, the brick smokestack of a
factory; the smokestack of a steam vessel. (Computer programming)
(a) A section of memory in a computer used for temporary storage of
data, in which the last datum stored is the first retrieved.
(b) A data structure within random-access memory used to simulate a
hardware stack, as, a push-down stack. Stack of arms (Mil.), a number
of muskets or rifles set up together, with the bayonets crossing one
another, forming a sort of conical self-supporting pile.

STACK
Stack, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Stacking.] Etym:
[Cf. Sw. stacka, Dan. stakke. See Stack, n.]

Defn: To lay in a conical or other pile; to make into a large pile;
as, to stack hay, cornstalks, or grain; to stack or place wood. To
stack arms (Mil.), to set up a number of muskets or rifles together,
with the bayonets crossing one another, and forming a sort of conical
pile.

STACKAGE
Stack"age, n.

1. Hay, gray, or the like, in stacks; things stacked. [R.]

2. A tax on things stacked. [R.] Holinshed.

STACKET
Stack"et, n. Etym: [Cf. F. estacade and E. stockade.] (Mil.)

Defn: A stockade. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

STACK-GUARD
Stack"-guard`, n.

Defn: A covering or protection, as a canvas, for a stack.

STACKING
Stack"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Stack. Stacking band, Stacking belt, a band or rope used
in binding thatch or straw upon a stack.
 -- Stacking stage, a stage used in building stacks.

STACKSTAND
Stack"stand`, n.

Defn: A staging for supporting a stack of hay or grain; a rickstand.

STACKYARD
Stack"yard`, n.

Defn: A yard or inclosure for stacks of hay or grain. A. Smith.

STACTE
Stac"te, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

Defn: One of the sweet spices used by the ancient Jews in the
preparation of incense. It was perhaps an oil or other form of myrrh
or cinnamon, or a kind of storax. Ex. xxx. 34.

STADDLE
Stad"dle, n. Etym: [AS. stathol, srathul, a foundation, firm seat;
akin to E. stand. *163. See Stand, v. i.] [Formerly written stadle.]

1. Anything which serves for support; a staff; a prop; a crutch; a
cane.
His weak steps governing And aged limbs on cypress stadle stout.
Spenser.

2. The frame of a stack of hay or grain. [Eng.]

3. A row of dried or drying hay, etc. [Eng.]

4. A small tree of any kind, especially a forest tree.

Note: In America, trees are called staddles from the time that they
are three or four years old till they are six or eight inches in
diameter, or more. This is also the sense in which the word is used
by Bacon and Tusser.

STADDLE
Stad"dle, v. t.

1. To leave the staddles, or saplings, of, as a wood when it is cut.
[R.] Tusser.

2. To form into staddles, as hay. [Eng.]

STADE
Stade, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stade.]

Defn: A stadium. Donne.

STADE
Stade, n. Etym: [Cf. G. gestade shore.]

Defn: A landing place or wharf. Knight.

STADIA HAIRS; STADIA WIRES
Sta"di*a hairs or wires . (Surv.)

Defn: In a theodolite, etc., horizontal cross wires or hairs
equidistant from the central horizontal cross wire.

STADIMETER
Sta*dim"e*ter, n. Etym: [Stadium + -meter.]

Defn: A horizontal graduated bar mounted on a staff, used as a
stadium, or telemeter, for measuring distances.

STADIUM
Sta"di*um, n.; pl. Stadia. Etym: [L., a stadium (in sense 1), from
Gr.

1. A Greek measure of length, being the chief one used for itinerary
distances, also adopted by the Romans for nautical and astronomical
measurements. It was equal to 600 Greek or 625 Roman feet, or 125
Roman paces, or to 606 feet 9 inches English. This was also called
the Olympic stadium, as being the exact length of the foot-race
course at Olympia. Dr. W. Smith.

2. Hence, a race course; especially, the Olympic course for foot
races.

3. A kind of telemeter for measuring the distance of an object of
known dimensions, by observing the angle it subtends; especially
(Surveying), a graduated rod used to measure the distance of the
place where it stands from an instrument having a telescope, by
observing the number of the graduations of the rod that are seen
between certain parallel wires (stadia wires) in the field of view of
the telescope; -- also called stadia, and stadia rod.

STADTHOLDER
Stadt"hold`er, n. Etym: [D. stadhouder; stad a city, a town + houder
a holder.]

Defn: Formerly, the chief magistrate of the United Provinces of
Holland; also, the governor or lieutenant governor of a province.

STADTHOLDERATE; STADTHOLDERSHIP
Stadt"hold`er*ate, Stadt"hold`er*ship, n.

Defn: The office or position of a stadtholder.

STAFETTE
Sta*fette", n. Etym: [Cf. G. stafette. See Estafet.]

Defn: An estafet. [R.] arlyle.

STAFF
Staff, n.; pl. Staves ( or Staffs in senses 1-9, Staffs in senses 10,
11. Etym: [AS. st?f a staff; akin to LG. & D. staf, OFries stef, G.
stab, Icel. stafr, Sw. staf, Dan. stav, Goth. stabs element,
rudiment, Skr. sthapay to cause to stand, to place. See Stand, and
cf. Stab, Stave, n.]

1. A long piece of wood; a stick; the long handle of an instrument or
weapon; a pole or srick, used for many purposes; as, a surveyor's
staff; the staff of a spear or pike.
And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar to
bear it withal. Ex. xxxviii. 7.
With forks and staves the felon to pursue. Dryden.

2. A stick carried in the hand for support or defense by a person
walking; hence, a support; that which props or upholds. "Hooked
staves." Piers Plowman.
The boy was the very staff of my age. Shak.
He spoke of it [beer] in "The Earnest Cry," and likewise in the
"Scotch Drink," as one of the staffs of life which had been struck
from the poor man's hand. Prof. Wilson.

3. A pole, stick, or wand borne as an ensign of authority; a badge of
office; as, a constable's staff.
Methought this staff, mine office badge in court, Was broke in twain.
Shak.
All his officers brake their staves; but at their return new staves
were delivered unto them. Hayward.

4. A pole upon which a flag is supported and displayed.

5. The round of a ladder. [R.]
I ascend at one [ladder] of six hundred and thirty-nine staves. Dr.
J. Campbell (E. Brown's Travels).

6. A series of verses so disposed that, when it is concluded, the
same order begins again; a stanza; a stave.
Cowley found out that no kind of staff is proper for an heroic poem,
as being all too lyrical. Dryden.

7. (Mus.)

Defn: The five lines and the spaces on which music is written; --
formerly called stave.

8. (Mech.)

Defn: An arbor, as of a wheel or a pinion of a watch.

9. (Surg.)

Defn: The grooved director for the gorget, or knife, used in cutting
for stone in the bladder.

10. Etym: [From Staff, 3, a badge of office.] (Mil.)

Defn: An establishment of officers in various departments attached to
an army, to a section of an army, or to the commander of an army. The
general's staff consists of those officers about his person who are
employed in carrying his commands into execution. See Etat Major.

11. Hence: A body of assistants serving to carry into effect the
plans of a superintendant or manager; as, the staff of a newspaper.
Jacob's staff (Surv.), a single straight rod or staff, pointed and
iron-shod at the bottom, for penetrating the ground, and having a
socket joint at the top, used, instead of a tripod, for supporting a
compass.
 -- Staff angle (Arch.), a square rod of wood standing flush with the
wall on each of its sides, at the external angles of plastering, to
prevent their being damaged.
 -- The staff of life, bread. "Bread is the staff of life." Swift.
 -- Staff tree (Bot.), any plant of the genus Celastrus, mostly
climbing shrubs of the northern hemisphere. The American species (C.
scandens) is commonly called bittersweet. See 2d Bittersweet, 3 (b).
 -- To set, or To put, up, or down, one's staff, to take up one's
residence; to lodge. [Obs.]

STAFFIER
Staf"fi*er, n.

Defn: An attendant bearing a staff. [Obs.] "Staffiers on foot."
Hudibras.

STAFFISH
Staff"ish, a.

Defn: Stiff; harsh. [Obs.] Ascham.

STAFFMAN
Staff"man, n.; pl. Staffmen (.

Defn: A workman employed in silk throwing.

STAG
Stag, n. Etym: [Icel. steggr the male of several animals; or a
doubtful AS. stagga. Cf. Steg.]

1. (Zool.)
(a) The adult male of the red deer (Cervus elaphus), a large European
species closely related to the American elk, or wapiti.
(b) The male of certain other species of large deer.

2. A colt, or filly; also, a romping girl. [Prov. Eng.]

3. A castrated bull; -- called also bull stag, and bull seg. See the
Note under Ox.

4. (Stock Exchange)
(a) An outside irregular dealer in stocks, who is not a member of the
exchange. [Cant]
(b) One who applies for the allotment of shares in new projects, with
a view to sell immediately at a premium, and not to hold the stock.
[Cant]

5. (Zool.)

Defn: The European wren. [Prov. Eng.] Stag beetle (Zool.), any one of
numerous species of lamellicorn beetles belonging to Lucanus and
allied genera, especially L. cervus of Europe and L. dama of the
United States. The mandibles are large and branched, or forked,
whence the name. The lava feeds on the rotten wood of dead trees.
Called also horned bug, and horse beetle.
 -- Stag dance, a dance by men only. [slang, U.S.] -- Stag hog
(Zool.), the babiroussa.
 -- Stag-horn coral (Zool.), any one of several species of large
branching corals of the genus Madrepora, which somewhat resemble the
antlers of the stag, especially Madrepora cervicornis, and M.
palmata, of Florida and the West Indies.
 -- Stag-horn fern (Bot.), an Australian and West African fern
(Platycerium alcicorne) having the large fronds branched like a
stag's horns; also, any species of the same genus.
 -- Stag-horn sumac (Bot.), a common American shrub (Rhus typhina)
having densely velvety branchlets. See Sumac.
 -- Stag party, a party consisting of men only. [Slang, U. S.] --
Stag tick (Zool.), a parasitic dipterous insect of the family
Hippoboscid?, which lives upon the stag and in usually wingless. The
same species lives also upon the European grouse, but in that case
has wings.

STAG
Stag, v. i. (Com.)

Defn: To act as a "stag", or irregular dealer in stocks. [Cant]

STAG
Stag, v. t.

Defn: To watch; to dog, or keep track of. [Prov. Eng. or Slang] H.
Kingsley.

STAGE
Stage, n. Etym: [OF. estage, F. etage, (assumed) LL. staticum, from
L. stare to stand. See Stand, and cf. Static.]

1. A floor or story of a house. [Obs.] Wyclif.

2. An elevated platform on which an orator may speak, a play be
performed, an exhibition be presented, or the like.

3. A floor elevated for the convenience of mechanical work, or the
like; a scaffold; a staging.

4. A platform, often floating, serving as a kind of wharf.

5. The floor for scenic performances; hence, the theater; the
playhouse; hence, also, the profession of representing dramatic
compositions; the drama, as acted or exhibited.
Knights, squires, and steeds, must enter on the stage. Pope.
Lo! Where the stage, the poor, degraded stage, Holds its warped
mirror to a gaping age. C. Sprague.

6. A place where anything is publicly exhibited; the scene of any
noted action or carrer; the spot where any remarkable affair occurs.
When we are born, we cry that we are come To this stage of fools.
Shak.
Music and ethereal mirth Wherewith the stage of air and earth did
ring. Miton.

7. The platform of a microscope, upon which an object is placed to be
viewed. See Illust. of Microscope.

8. A place of rest on a regularly traveled road; a stage house; a
station; a place appointed for a relay of horses.

9. A degree of advancement in a journey; one of several portions into
which a road or course is marked off; the distance between two places
of rest on a road; as, a stage of ten miles.
A stage . . . signifies a certain distance on a road. Jeffrey.
He traveled by gig, with his wife, his favorite horse performing the
journey by easy stages. Smiles.

10. A degree of advancement in any pursuit, or of progress toward an
end or result.
Such a polity is suited only to a particular stage in the progress of
society. Macaulay.

11. A large vehicle running from station to station for the
accomodation of the public; a stagecoach; an omnibus. "A parcel sent
you by the stage." Cowper.
I went in the sixpenny stage. Swift.

12. (Biol.)

Defn: One of several marked phases or periods in the development and
growth of many animals and plants; as, the larval stage; pupa stage;
zoea stage. Stage box, a box close to the stage in a theater.
 -- Stage carriage, a stagecoach.
 -- Stage door, the actor's and workmen's entrance to a theater.
 -- Stage lights, the lights by which the stage in a theater is
illuminated.
 -- Stage micrometer, a graduated device applied to the stage of a
microscope for measuring the size of an object.
 -- Stage wagon, a wagon which runs between two places for conveying
passengers or goods.
 -- Stage whisper, a loud whisper, as by an actor in a theater,
supposed, for dramatic effect, to be unheard by one or more of his
fellow actors, yet audible to the audience; an aside. stage of the
game, [Colloq.] stage n. 10.

STAGE
Stage, v. t.

Defn: To exhibit upon a stage, or as upon a stage; to display
publicly. Shak.

STAGECOACH
Stage"coach`, n.

Defn: A coach that runs regularly from one stage, station, or place
to another, for the conveyance of passengers.

STAGECOACHMAN
Stage"coach`man, n.; pl. Stagecoachmen (.

Defn: One who drives a stagecoach.

STAGE DIRECTOR
Stage director. (Theat.)

Defn: One who prepares a play for production. He arranges the details
of the stage settings, the business to be used, all stage effects,
and instructs the actors, excepting usually the star, in the general
interpretation of their parts.

STAGE FRIGHT
Stage fright.

Defn: Nervousness felt before an audience.

STAGEHOUSE
Stage"house`, n.

Defn: A house where a stage regularly stops for passengers or a relay
of horses.

STAGELY
Stage"ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a stage; becoming the theater; theatrical. [Obs.]
Jer. Taylor.

STAGE MANAGER
Stage manager. (Theat.)

Defn: One in control of the stage during the production of a play. He
directs the stage hands, property man, etc., has charge of all
details behind the curtain, except the acting, and has a general
oversight of the actors. Sometimes he is also the stage director.

STAGEPLAY
Stage"play`, n.

Defn: A dramatic or theatrical entertainment. Dryden.

STAGEPLAYER
Stage"play`er, n.

Defn: An actor on the stage; one whose occupation is to represent
characters on the stage; as, Garrick was a celebrated stageplayer.

STAGER
Sta"ger, n.

1. A player. [R.] B. Jonson.

2. One who has long acted on the stage of life; a practitioner; a
person of experience, or of skill derived from long experience. "You
will find most of the old stagers still stationary there." Sir W.
Scott.

3. A horse used in drawing a stage. [Colloq.]

STAGERY
Sta"ger*y, n.

Defn: Exhibition on the stage. [Obs.]

STAGE-STRUCK
Stage"-struck`, a.

Defn: Fascinated by the stage; seized by a passionate desire to
become an actor.

STAG-EVIL
Stag"-e`vil, n. (Far.)

Defn: A kind of palsy affecting the jaw of a horse. Crabb.

STAGGARD
Stag"gard, n. Etym: [From Stag.] (Zool.)

Defn: The male red deer when four years old.

STAGGER
Stag"ger, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Staggered; p. pr. & vb. n. Staggering.]
Etym: [OE. stakeren, Icel. stakra to push, to stagger, fr. staka to
punt, push, stagger; cf. OD. staggeren to stagger. Cf. Stake, n.]

1. To move to one side and the other, as if about to fall, in
standing or walking; not to stand or walk with steadiness; to sway;
to reel or totter.
Deep was the wound; he staggered with the blow. Dryden.

2. To cease to stand firm; to begin to give way; to fail. "The enemy
staggers." Addison.

3. To begin to doubt and waver in purposes; to become less confident
or determined; to hesitate.
He [Abraham] staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief.
Rom. iv. 20.

STAGGER
Stag"ger, v. t.

1. To cause to reel or totter.
That hand shall burn in never-quenching fire That staggers thus my
person. Shak.

2. To cause to doubt and waver; to make to hesitate; to make less
steady or confident; to shock.
Whosoever will read the story of this war will find himself much
stagered. Howell.
Grants to the house of Russell were so enormous, as not only to
outrage economy, but even to stagger credibility. Burke.

3. To arrange (a series of parts) on each side of a median line
alternately, as the spokes of a wheel or the rivets of a boiler seam.

STAGGER
Stag"ger, n.

1. An unsteady movement of the body in walking or standing, as if one
were about to fall; a reeling motion; vertigo; -- often in the
plural; as, the stagger of a drunken man.

2. pl. (Far.)

Defn: A disease of horses and other animals, attended by reeling,
unsteady gait or sudden falling; as, parasitic staggers; appopletic
or sleepy staggers.

3. pl.

Defn: Bewilderment; perplexity. [R.] Shak. Stomach staggers (Far.),
distention of the stomach with food or gas, resulting in indigestion,
frequently in death.

STAGGERBUSH
Stag"ger*bush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An American shrub (Andromeda Mariana) having clusters of
nodding white flowers. It grows in low, sandy places, and is said to
poison lambs and calves. Gray.

STAGGERINGLY
Stag"ger*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a staggering manner.

STAGGERWORT
Stag"ger*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of ragwort (Senecio Jacob?a).

STAG-HORN CORAL; STAG-HORN FERN
Stag"-horn` co"ral, Stag"-horn` fern`, etc.

Defn: See under Stag.

STAG-HORNED
Stag"-horned`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the mandibles large and palmate, or branched somewhat
like the antlers of a stag; -- said of certain beetles.

STAGHOUND
Stag"hound`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A large and powerful hound formerly used in hunting the stag,
the wolf, and other large animals. The breed is nearly extinct.

STAGING
Sta"ging, n.

Defn: A structure of posts and boards for supporting workmen, etc.,
as in building.

2. The business of running stagecoaches; also, the act of journeying
in stagecoaches.

STAGIRITE
Stag"i*rite, n.

Defn: A native of, or resident in, Stagira, in ancient Macedonia;
especially, Aristotle. [Written also Stagyrite.]

STAGNANCY
Stag"nan*cy, n.

Defn: State of being stagnant.

STAGNANT
Stag"nant, a. Etym: [L. stagnans, -antis, p.pr. of stagnare. See
Stagnate.]

1. That stagnates; not flowing; not running in a current or steam;
motionless; hence, impure or foul from want of motion; as, a stagnant
lake or pond; stagnant blood in the veins.

2. Not active or brisk; dull; as, business in stagnant.
That gloomy slumber of the stagnant soul. Johnson.
For him a stagnant life was not worth living. Palfrey.

STAGNANTLY
Stag"nant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stagnant manner.

STAGNATE
Stag"nate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stagnated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stagnating.] Etym: [L. stagnatus, p.p. of stagnare to stagnate, make
stagnant, from stagnum a piece of standing water. See Stank a pool,
and cf. Stanch, v. t.]

1. To cease to flow; to be motionless; as, blood stagnates in the
veins of an animal; hence, to become impure or foul by want of
motion; as, air stagnates in a close room.

2. To cease to be brisk or active; to become dull or inactive; as,
commerce stagnates; business stagnates.
Ready-witted tenderness . . . never stagnates in vain lamentations
while there is any room for hope. Sir W. Scott.

STAGNATE
Stag"nate, a.

Defn: Stagnant. [Obs.] "A stagnate mass of vapors." Young.

STAGNATION
Stag*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stagnation.]

1. The condition of being stagnant; cessation of flowing or
circulation, as of a fluid; the state of being motionless; as, the
stagnation of the blood; the stagnation of water or air; the
stagnation of vapors.

2. The cessation of action, or of brisk action; the state of being
dull; as, the stagnation of business.

STAGWORM
Stag"worm, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The larve of any species of botfly which is parasitic upon the
stag, as , which burrows beneath the skin, and Cephalomyia
auribarbis, which lives in the nostrils.

STAGY
Sta"gy, a. [Written also stagey.]

Defn: Having an air or manner characteristic of the stage;
theatrical; artificial; as, a stagy tone or bearing; --chiefly used
depreciatively.

STAHLIAN
Stahl"ian, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or taught by, Stahl, a German physician and
chemist of the 17th century; as, the Stahlian theory of phlogiston.

STAHLIAN
Stahl"ian, n.

Defn: A believer in, or advocate of, Stahlism.

STAHLISM; STAHLIANISM
Stahl"ism, Stahl"ian*ism, n.

Defn: The Stahlian theoru, that every vital action is function or
operation of the soul.

STAID
Staid,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Stay.

STAID
Staid, a. Etym: [From Stay to stop.]

Defn: Sober; grave; steady; sedate; composed; regular; not wild,
volatile, or fanciful. "Sober and staid persons." Addison.
O'erlaid with black, staid Wisdom's hue. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Sober; grave; steady; steadfast; composed; regular; sedate.

STAIDLY
Staid"ly, adv.

Defn: In a staid manner, sedately.

STAIDNESS
Staid"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being staid; seriousness; steadiness;
sedateness; regularity; -- the opposite of wildness, or Ant: levity.
If sometimes he appears too gray, yet a secret gracefulness of youth
accompanies his writings, though the staidness and sobriety of age
wanting. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Sobriety; gravity; steadiness; regularity; constancy; firmness;
stability; sedateness.

STAIL
Stail, n.

Defn: A handle, as of a mop; a stale. [Eng.]

STAIN
Stain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stained; p. pr. & vb. n. Staining.] Etym:
[Abbrev. fr. distain.]

1. To discolor by the application of foreign matter; to make foul; to
spot; as, to stain the hand with dye; armor stained with blood.

2. To color, as wood, glass, paper, cloth, or the like, by processess
affecting, chemically or otherwise, the material itself; to tinge
with a color or colors combining with, or penetrating, the substance;
to dye; as, to stain wood with acids, colored washes, paint rubbed
in, etc.; to stain glass.

3. To spot with guilt or infamy; to bring reproach on; to blot; to
soil; to tarnish.
Of honor void, Of innocence, of faith, of purity, Our wonted
ornaments now soiled and stained. Milton.

4. To cause to seem inferior or soiled by comparison.
She stains the ripest virgins of her age. Beau. & Fl.
That did all other beasts in beauty stain. Spenser.
Stained glass, glass colored or stained by certain metallic pigments
fused into its substance, -- often used for making ornament windows.

Syn.
 -- To paint; dye; blot; soil; sully; discolor; disgrace; taint.
 -- Paint, Stain, Dye. These denote three different processes; the
first mechanical, the other two, chiefly chemical. To paint a thing
is so spread a coat of coloring matter over it; to stain or dye a
thing is to impart color to its substance. To stain is said chiefly
of solids, as wood, glass, paper; to dye, of fibrous substances,
textile fabrics, etc.; the one, commonly, a simple process, as
applying a wash; the other more complex, as fixing colors by
mordants.

STAIN
Stain, v. i.

Defn: To give or receive a stain; to grow dim.

STAIN
Stain, n.

1. A discoloration by foreign matter; a spot; as, a stain on a
garment or cloth. Shak.

2. A natural spot of a color different from the gound.
Swift trouts, diversified with crimson stains. Pope.

3. Taint of guilt; tarnish; disgrace; reproach.
Nor death itself can wholly wash their stains. Dryden.
Our opinion . . . is, I trust, without any blemish or stain of
heresy. Hooker.

4. Cause of reproach; shame. Sir P. Sidney.

5. A tincture; a tinge. [R.]
You have some stain of soldier in you. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Blot; spot; taint; pollution; blemish; tarnish; color; disgrace;
infamy; shame.

STAINER
Stain"er, n.

1. One who stains or tarnishes.

2. A workman who stains; as, a stainer of wood.

STAINLESS
Stain"less, a.

Defn: Free from stain; immaculate. Shak.
The veery care he took to keep his name Stainless, with some was
evidence of shame. Crabbe.

Syn.
 -- Blameless; spotless; faultless. See Blameless.

STAINLESSLY
Stain"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stainless manner.

STAIR
Stair, n. Etym: [OE. steir, steyer, AS. st, from to ascend, rise. sq.
root164. See Sty to ascend.]

1. One step of a series for ascending or descending to a different
level; -- commonly applied to those within a building.

2. A series of steps, as for passing from one story of a house to
another; -- commonly used in the plural; but originally used in the
singular only. "I a winding stair found." Chaucer's Dream. Below
stairs, in the basement or lower part of a house, where the servants
are.
 -- Flight of stairs, the stairs which make the whole ascent of a
story.
 -- Pair of stairs, a set or flight of stairs.
 -- pair, in this phrase, having its old meaning of a set. See Pair,
n., 1.
 -- Run of stars (Arch.), a single set of stairs, or section of a
stairway, from one platform to the next.
 -- Stair rod, a rod, usually of metal, for holding a stair carpet to
its place.
 -- Up stairs. See Upstairs in the Vocabulary.

STAIRCASE
Stair"case`, n.

Defn: A flight of stairs with their supporting framework, casing,
balusters, etc.
To make a complete staircase is a curious piece of architecture. Sir
H. Wotton.
Staircase shell. (Zool.) (a) Any scalaria, or wentletrap. (b) Any
species of Solarium, or perspective shell.

STAIRHEAD
Stair"head`, n.

Defn: The head or top of a staircase.

STAIRWAY
Stair"way`, n.

Defn: A flight of stairs or steps; a staircase. "A rude and narrow
stairway." Moore.

STAITH
Staith, n. Etym: [AS. st? a bank, shore, from the root of E. stead.]

Defn: A landing place; an elevated staging upon a wharf for
discharging coal, etc., as from railway cars, into vessels.

STAITHMAN
Staith"man, n.

Defn: A man employed in weighing and shipping at a staith. [Eng.]

STAKE
Stake, n. Etym: [AS. staca, from the root of E. stick; akin to
OFries. & LG. stake, D. staak, Sw. stake, Dan. stage. See Stick, v.
t., and cf. Estacade, Stockade.]

1. A piece of wood, usually long and slender, pointed at one end so
as to be easily driven into the ground as a support or stay; as, a
stake to support vines, fences, hedges, etc.
A sharpened stake strong Dryas found. Dryden.

2. A stick inserted upright in a lop, eye, or mortise, at the side or
end of a cart, a flat car, or the like, to prevent goods from falling
off.

3. The piece of timber to which a martyr was affixed to be burned;
hence, martyrdom by fire.

4. A small anvil usually furnished with a tang to enter a hole in a
bench top, -- used by tinsmiths, blacksmiths, etc., for light work,
punching upon, etc.

5. That which is laid down as a wager; that which is staked or
hazarded; a pledge. At stake, in danger; hazarded; pledged. "I see my
reputation is at stake." Shak.

STAKE
Stake, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Staked; p. pr. & vb. n. Staking.]

1. To fasten, support, or defend with stakes; as, to stake vines or
plants.

2. To mark the limits of by stakes; -- with out; as, to stake out
land; to stake out a new road.

3. To put at hazard upon the issue of competition, or upon a future
contingency; to wager; to pledge.
I'll stake yon lamb, that near the fountain plays. Pope.

4. To pierce or wound with a stake. Spectator.

STAKE-DRIVER
Stake"-driv`er, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The common American bittern (Botaurus lentiginosus); -- so
called because one of its notes resembles the sound made in driving a
stake into the mud. Called also meadow hen, and Indian hen.

STAKEHEAD
Stake"head`, n. (Rope making)

Defn: A horizontal bar on a stake, used for supporting the yarns
which are kept apart by pins in the bar.

STAKEHOLDER
Stake"hold`er, n.

Defn: The holder of a stake; one with whom the bets are deposited
when a wager is laid.

STAKTOMETER
Stak*tom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: A drop measurer; a glass tube tapering to a small orifice at
the point, and having a bulb in the middle, used for finding the
number of drops in equal quantities of different liquids. See
Pipette. Sir D. Brewster.

STAL
Stal, obs. imp. of Steal.

Defn: Stole.

STALACTIC; STALACTICAL
Sta*lac"tic, Sta*lac"tic*al, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Stalactic.

STALACTIFORM
Sta*lac"ti*form, a.

Defn: Like a stalactite; resembling a stalactite.

STALACTITE
Sta*lac"tite, n.; pl. Stalactites. Etym: [Gr. stalactite.] (Geol.)
(a) A pendent cone or cylinder of calcium carbonate resembling an
icicle in form and mode of attachment. Stalactites are found
depending from the roof or sides of caverns, and are produced by
deposition from waters which have percolated through, and partially
dissolved, the overlying limestone rocks.
(b) In an extended sense, any mineral or rock of similar form and
origin; as, a stalactite of lava.

STALACTITES
Stal`ac*ti"tes, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A stalactite. [Obs.] Woodward.

STALACTITIC; STALACTITICAL
Stal`ac*tit"ic, Stal`ac*tit"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stalactitique.]
(Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a stalactite; having the form or characters
of a stalactite; stalactic.

STALACTITIFORM
Stal`ac*tit"i*form, a.

Defn: Having the form of a stalactite; stalactiform.

STALAGMITE
Sta*lag"mite, n. Etym: [Gr. stalagmite.] (Geol.)

Defn: A deposit more or less resembling an inverted stalactite,
formed by calcareous water dropping on the floors of caverns; hence,
a similar deposit of other material.

STALAGMITIC; STALAGMITICAL
Stal`ag*mit"ic, Stal`ag*mit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having the form or structure of stalagmites.
 -- Stal`ag*mit"ic*al*ly, adv.

STALDER
Stal"der, n. Etym: [From the root of stall.]

Defn: A wooden frame to set casks on. [Prov. Eng.]

STALE
Stale, n. Etym: [OE. stale, stele, AS. st?l, stel; akin to LG. & D.
steel, G. stiel; cf. L. stilus stake, stalk, stem, Gr. stall, stalk,
n.]

Defn: The stock or handle of anything; as, the stale of a rake.
[Written also steal, stele, etc.]
But seeling the arrow's stale without, and that the head did go No
further than it might be seen. Chapman.

STALE
Stale, a. Etym: [Akin to stale urine, and to stall, n.; probably from
Low German or Scandinavian. Cf. Stale, v. i.]

1. Vapid or tasteless from age; having lost its life, spirit, and
flavor, from being long kept; as, stale beer.

2. Not new; not freshly made; as, stele bread.

3. Having lost the life or graces of youth; worn out; decayed. "A
stale virgin." Spectator.

4. Worn out by use or familiarity; having lost its novelty and power
of pleasing; trite; common. Swift.
Wit itself, if stale is less pleasing. Grew.
How weary, stale flat, and unprofitable Seem to me all the uses of
this world! Shak.
Stale affidavit (Law), an affidavit held above a year. Craig.
 -- Stale demand (Law), a claim or demand which has not been pressed
or demanded for a long time.

STALE
Stale, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Staled; p. pr. & vb. n. Staling.]

Defn: To make vapid or tasteless; to destroy the life, beauty, or use
of; to wear out.
Age can not wither her, nor custom stale Her infinite variety. Shak.

STALE
Stale, v. i. Etym: [Akin to D. & G. stallen, Dan. stalle, Sw. stalla,
and E. stall a stable. Stall, n., and cf. Stale, a.]

Defn: To make water; to discharge urine; -- said especially of horses
and cattle. Hudibras.

STALE
Stale, n. Etym: [See Stale, a. & v. i.]

1. That which is stale or worn out by long keeping, or by use. [Obs.]

2. A prostitute. [Obs.] Shak.

3. Urine, esp. that of beasts. "Stale of horses." Shak.

STALE
Stale, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. estal place, position, abode, market, F.
etal a butcher's stall, OHG. stal station, place, stable, G. stall
(see Stall, n.); or from OE. stale theft, AS. stalu (see Steal, v.
t.)]

1. Something set, or offered to view, as an allurement to draw others
to any place or purpose; a decoy; a stool pigeon. [Obs.]
Still, as he went, he crafty stales did lay. Spenser.

2. A stalking-horse. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

3. (Chess)

Defn: A stalemate. [Obs.] Bacon.

4. A laughingstock; a dupe. [Obs.] Shak.

STALELY
Stale"ly, adv.

1. In a state stale manner.

2. Of old; long since. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

STALEMATE
Stale"mate`, n. (Chess)

Defn: The position of the king when he can not move without being
placed on check and there is no other piece which can be moved.

STALEMATE
Stale"mate`, v. t. (Chess)

Defn: To subject to a stalemate; hence, to bring to a stand.

STALENESS
Stale"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stale.

STALK
Stalk, n. Etym: [OE. stalke, fr. AS. st?l, stel, a stalk. See Stale a
handle, Stall.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) The stem or main axis of a plant; as, a stalk of wheat, rye, or
oats; the stalks of maize or hemp.
(b) The petiole, pedicel, or peduncle, of a plant.

2. That which resembes the stalk of a plant, as the stem of a quill.
Grew.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament in the Corinthian capital resembling the stalk of a
plant, from which the volutes and helices spring.

4. One of the two upright pieces of a ladder. [Obs.]
To climd by the rungs and the stalks. Chaucer.

5. (Zool.)
(a) A stem or peduncle, as of certain barnacles and crinoids.
(b) The narrow basal portion of the abdomen of a hymenopterous
insect.
(c) The peduncle of the eyes of decapod crustaceans.

6. (Founding)

Defn: An iron bar with projections inserted in a core to strengthen
it; a core arbor. Stalk borer (Zool.), the larva of a noctuid moth
(Gortyna nitela), which bores in the stalks of the raspberry,
strawberry, tomato, asters, and many other garden plants, often doing
much injury.

STALK
Stalk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stalked; p. pr. & vb. n. Stalking.] Etym:
[AS. st?lcan, stealcian to go slowly; cf. stels high, elevated, Dan.
stalke to stalk; probably akin to 1st stalk.]

1. To walk slowly and cautiously; to walk in a stealthy, noiseless
manner; -- sometimes used with a reflexive pronoun. Shak.
Into the chamber he stalked him full still. Chaucer.
[Bertran] stalks close behind her, like a witch's fiend, Pressing to
be employed. Dryden.

2. To walk behind something as a screen, for the purpose of
approaching game; to proceed under clover.
The king . . . crept under the shoulder of his led horse; . . . "I
must stalk," said he. Bacon.
One underneath his horse, to get a shoot doth stalk. Drayton.

3. To walk with high and proud steps; usually implying the
affectation of dignity, and indicating dislike. The word is used,
however, especially by the poets, to express dignity of step.
With manly mien he stalked along the ground. Dryden.
Then stalking through the deep, He fords the ocean. Addison.
I forbear myself from entering the lists in which he has long stalked
alone and unchallenged. Mericale.

STALK
Stalk, v. t.

Defn: To approach under cover of a screen, or by stealth, for the
purpose of killing, as game.
As for shooting a man from behind a wall, it is cruelly like to
stalking a deer. Sir W. Scott.

STALK
Stalk, n.

Defn: A high, proud, stately step or walk.
Thus twice before, . . . With martial stalk hath he gone by our
watch. Shak.
The which with monstrous stalk behind him stepped. Spenser.

STALKED
Stalked, a.

Defn: Having a stalk or stem; borne upon a stem. Stalked barnacle
(Zool.), a goose barnacle, or anatifer; -- called also stalk
barnacle.
 -- Stalked crinoid (Zool.), any crinoid having a jointed stem.

STALKER
Stalk"er, n.

1. One who stalks.

2. A kind of fishing net.

STALK-EYED
Stalk"-eyed`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the eyes raised on a stalk, or peduncle; -- opposed to
sessile-eyed. Said especially of podophthalmous crustaceans. Stalked-
eyed crustaceans. (Zool.) See Podophthalmia.

STALKING-HORSE
Stalk"ing-horse, n.

1. A horse, or a figure resembling a horse, behind which a hunter
conceals himself from the game he is aiming to kill.

2. Fig.: Something used to cover up a secret project; a mask; a
pretense.
Hypocrisy is the devil's stalking-horse under an affectation of
simplicity and religion. L'Estrange.
How much more abominable is it to make of him [Christ] and religion a
stalking-horse, to get and enjoy the world! Bunyan.

STALKLESS
Stalk"less, a.

Defn: Having no stalk.

STALKY
Stalk"y, a.

Defn: Hard as a stalk; resembling a stalk.
At the top [it] bears a great stalky head. Mortimer.

STALL
Stall, n. Etym: [OE. stal, AS. steall, stall, a place, seat, or
station, a stable; akin to D. & OHG. stal, G. & Sw. stall, stallr,
Dan. stald, originally, a standing place; akin to G. selle a place,
stellen to place, Gr. stand. Stand, and cf. Apostle, Epistle,
Forestall, Install, Stale, a. & v. i., 1st Stalk, Stallion, Still.]

1. A stand; a station; a fixed spot; hence, the stand or place where
a horse or an ox kept and fed; the division of a stable, or the
compartment, for one horse, ox, or other animal. "In an oxes stall."
Chaucer.

2. A stable; a place for cattle.
At last he found a stall where oxen stood. Dryden.

3. A small apartment or shed in which merchandise is exposed for
sale; as, a butcher's stall; a bookstall.

4. A bench or table on which small articles of merchandise are
exposed for sale.
How peddlers' stalls with glittering toys are laid. Gay.

5. A seat in the choir of a church, for one of the officiating
clergy. It is inclosed, either wholly or partially, at the back and
sides. The stalls are frequently very rich, with canopies and
elaborate carving.
The dignifird clergy, out of humanility, have called their thrones by
the names of stalls. Bp. Warburton.
Loud the monks in their stalls. Longfellow.

6. In the theater, a seat with arms or otherwise partly inclosed, as
distinguished from the benches, sofas, etc.

7. (Mining)

Defn: The space left by excavation between pillars. See Post and
stall, under Post. Stall reader, one who reads books at a stall where
they are exposed for sale.
Cries the stall reader, "Bless us! what a word on
A titlepage is this!" Milton.

STALL
Stall, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stalled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stalling.] Etym:
[Cf. Sw. stalla, Dan. stalde.]

1. To put into a stall or stable; to keep in a stall or stalls; as,
to stall an ox.
Where King Latinus then his oxen stalled.
Dryden.

2. To fatten; as, to stall cattle. [Prov. Eng.]

3. To place in an office with the customary formalities; to install.
Shak.

4. To plunge into mire or snow so as not to be able to get on; to
set; to fix; as, to stall a cart. Burton.
His horses had been stalled in the snow. E. E. Hale.

5. To forestall; to anticipitate. Having
This not to be stall'd by my report. Massinger.

6. To keep close; to keep secret. [Obs.]
Stall this in your bosom. Shak.

STALL
Stall, v. i. Etym: [AS. steallian to have room. See Stall, n.]

1. To live in, or as in, a stall; to dwell. [Obs.]
We could not stall together In the whole world. Shak.

2. To kennel, as dogs. Johnson.

3. To be set, as in mire or snow; to stick fast.

4. To be tired of eating, as cattle. [Prov. Eng.]

STALLAGE
Stall"age, n. Etym: [Cf. OF.estallange, of German origin. See Stall,
n. ]

1. (Eng. Law)

Defn: The right of erecting a stalls in fairs; rent paid for a stall.

2. Dung of cattle or horses, mixed with straw. [Obs.]

STALLATION
Stal*la"tion, n.

Defn: Installation. [Obs.]

STALLED
Stalled, a.

Defn: Put or kept in a stall; hence, fatted. "A stalled ox." Prov.
xv. 17.

STALLER
Stall"er, n.

Defn: A standard bearer. obtaining Fuller.

STALL-FEED
Stall"-feed, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stall-fed (; p. pr. & vb. n. Stall-
feeding.]

Defn: To feed and fatten in a stall or on dry fodder; as, to stall-
feed an ox.

STALLING
Stall"ing, n.

Defn: Stabling. Tennyson.

STALLION
Stal"lion, n. Etym: [OE. stalon, OF. estalon, F. etalon, fr. OHG.
stal a stable. See Stall, n.]

Defn: A male horse not castrated; a male horse kept for breeding.

STALLMAN
Stall"man, n.; pl. Stallmen (.

Defn: One who keeps a stall for the sale of merchandise, especially
books. Sterne.

STALLON
Stal"lon, n.

Defn: A slip from a plant; a scion; a cutting. [R.] Holished.

STALWART; STALWORTH
Stal"wart, Stal"worth, a. Etym: [OE. stalworth, AS. st?lwyrth
serviceable, probably originally, good at stealing, or worth stealing
or taking, and afterwards extended to other causes of estimation. See
Steal, v. t., Worth, a.]

Defn: Brave; bold; strong; redoubted; daring; vehement; violent. "A
stalwart tiller of the soil." Prof. Wilson.
Fair man be was and wise, stalworth and bold. R. of Brunne.

Note: Stalworth is now disused, or bur little used, stalwart having
taken its place.

STALWARTLY
Stal"wart*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stalwart manner.

STALWARTNESS
Stal"wart*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being stalwart.

STALWORTHHOOD; STALWORTHNESS
Stal"worth*hood, Stal"worth*ness (, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stalworth; stalwartness;
boldness; daring. [Obs.]

STAMEN
Sta"men, n.; pl. E. Stamens (used only in the second sense); L.
Stamina (in the first sense). Etym: [L. stamen the warp, a thread,
fiber, akin to Gr. stand. See Stand, and cf. Stamin, Stamina.]

1. A thread; especially, a warp thread.

2. (pl. Stamens, rarely Stamina.) (Bot.)

Defn: The male organ of flowers for secreting and furnishing the
pollen or fecundating dust. It consists of the anther and filament.

STAMENED
Sta"mened, a.

Defn: Furnished with stamens.

STAMIN
Sta"min, n. Etym: [OF. estamine, F. etamine, LL. staminea, stamineum,
fr. L. stamineus consisting of threads, fr. stamen a thread. See
Stamen, and cf. Stamineous, 2d Stammel, Tamine.]

Defn: A kind of woolen cloth. [Written also stamine.] [Obs.]

STAMINA
Stam"i*na, n. pl.

Defn: See Stamen.

STAMINA
Stam"i*na, n. pl.

1. The fixed, firm part of a body, which supports it or gives it
strength and solidity; as, the bones are the stamina of animal
bodies; the ligneous parts of trees are the stamina which constitute
their strength.

2. Whatever constitutes the principal strength or support of
anything; power of endurance; backbone; vigor; as, the stamina of a
constitution or of life; the stamina of a State.
He succeeded to great captains who had sapped the whole stamina and
resistance of the contest. De Quincey.

STAMINAL
Stam"i*nal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. staminal.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to stamens or stamina; consisting in stamens.

STAMINATE
Stam"i*nate, a. Etym: [L. staminatus consisting of threads, fr.
stamen thread: cf. F. stamine.] (Bot.)
(a) Furnished with stamens; producing stamens.
(b) Having stamens, but lacking pistils.

STAMINATE
Stam"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To indue with stamina. [R.]

STAMINEAL; STAMINEOUS
Sta*min"e*al, Sta*min"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. stamineus, from stamen
thread.]

1. Consisting of stamens or threads.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the stamens; possessing stamens; also,
attached to the stamens; as, a stamineous nectary.

STAMINIFEROUS
Stam`i*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Stamen + -ferous.]

Defn: Bearing or having stamens.

STAMINODE
Stam"i*node, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A staminodium.

STAMINODIUM
Stam`i*no"di*um, n.; pl. Staminodia. Etym: [NL. See Stamen, and -
oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: An abortive stamen, or any organ modified from an abortive
stamen.

STAMMEL
Stam"mel, n.

Defn: A large, clumsy horse. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

STAMMEL
Stam"mel, n. Etym: [OF. estamel; cf. OF. estamet a coarse woolen
cloth, LL. stameta a kind of cloth, the same as staminea, and OF.
estame a woolen stuff. See Stamin.]

1. A kind of woolen cloth formerly in use. It seems to have been
often of a red color. [Obs.]

2. A red dye, used in England in the 15th and 16th centuries. B.
Jonson.

STAMMEL
Stam"mel, a.

Defn: Of the color of stammel; having a red color, thought inferior
to scarlet.

STAMMER
Stam"mer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stammered; p. pr. & vb. n. Stammering.]
Etym: [OE. stameren, fr. AS. stamur, stamer, stammering; akin to D. &
LG. stameren to stammer, G. stammeln, OHG. stammal, stamm, Dan.
stamme, Sw. stamma, Icel. stama, stamma, OHG. & Dan. stam stammering,
Icel. stamr, Goth. stamms, and to G. stemmen to bear against, stumm
dumb, D. stom. Cf. Stem to resist, Stumble.]

Defn: To make involuntary stops in uttering syllables or words; to
hesitate or falter in speaking; to speak with stops and diffivulty;
to stutter.
I would thou couldst stammer, that thou mightest pour this conclead
man out of thy mouth, as wine comes out of a narrow-mouthed bottle,
either too much at once, or none at all. Shak.

STAMMER
Stam"mer, v. t.

Defn: To utter or pronounce with hesitation or imperfectly; --
sometimes with out.

STAMMER
Stam"mer, n.

Defn: Defective utterance, or involuntary interruption of utterance;
a stutter.

STAMMERER
Stam"mer*er, n.

Defn: One who stammers.

STAMMERING
Stam"mer*ing, a.

Defn: Apt to stammer; hesitating in speech; stuttering.
 -- Stam"mer*ing*ly, adv.

STAMMERING
Stam"mer*ing, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: A disturbance in the formation of sounds. It is due essentially
to long-continued spasmodic contraction of the diaphragm, by which
expiration is preented, and hence it may be considered as a spasmodic
inspiration.

STAMP
Stamp v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stamped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stamping.] Etym:
[OE. stampen; akin to LG. & D. stampen, G. stampfen, OHG. stanpf,
Dan. stampe, Sw. stampa, Icel. stappa, G. stampf a pestle and E.
step. See Step, v. i., and cf. Stampede.]

1. To strike beat, or press forcibly with the bottom of the foot, or
by thrusting the foot downward. Shak.
He frets, he fumes, he stares, he stamps the ground. Dryden.

2. To bring down (the foot) forcibly on the ground or floor; as, he
stamped his foot with rage.

3. To crush; to pulverize; specifically (Metal.), to crush by the
blow of a heavy stamp, as ore in a mill.
I took your sin, the calf which ye had made, and burnt it with fire,
and stamped it, and ground it very small. Deut. ix. 21.

4. To impress with some mark or figure; as, to stamp a plate with
arms or initials.

5. Fig.: To impress; to imprint; to fix deeply; as, to stamp virtuous
principles on the heart.
God . . . has stamped no original characters on our minds wherein we
may read his being. Locke.

6. To cut out, bend, or indent, as paper, sheet metal, etc., into
various forms, by a blow or suddenly applied pressure with a stamp or
die, etc.; to mint; to coin.

7. To put a stamp on, as for postage; as, to stamp a letter; to stamp
a legal document. To stamp out, to put an end to by sudden and
energetic action; to extinguish; as, to stamp out a rebellion.

STAMP
Stamp, v. i.

1. To strike; to beat; to crush.
These cooks how they stamp and strain and grind. Chaucer.

2. To strike the foot forcibly downward.
But starts, exclaims, and stamps, and raves, and dies. dennis.

STAMP
Stamp, n.

1. The act of stamping, as with the foot.

2. The which stamps; any instrument for making impressions on other
bodies, as a die.
'T is gold so pure It can not bear the stamp without alloy. Dryden.

3. The mark made by stamping; a mark imprinted; an impression.
That sacred name gives ornament and grace, And, like his stamp, makes
basest metals pass. Dryden.

4. that which is marked; a thing stamped.
hanging a golden stamp about their necks. Shak.

5. Etym: [F. estampe, of german origin. See Stamp, v. t.]

Defn: A picture cut in wood or metal, or made by impression; a cut; a
plate. [Obs.]
At Venice they put out very curious stamps of the several edifices
which are most famous for their beauty and magnificence. Addison.

6. An offical mark set upon things chargeable with a duty or tax to
government, as evidence that the duty or tax is paid; as, the stamp
on a bill of exchange.

7. Hence, a stamped or printed device, issued by the government at a
fixed price, and required by law to be affixed to, or stamped on,
certain papers, as evidence that the government dues are paid; as, a
postage stamp; a receipt stamp, etc.

8. An instrument for cutting out, or shaping, materials, as paper,
leather, etc., by a downward pressure.

9. A character or reputation, good or bad, fixed on anything as if by
an imprinted mark; current value; authority; as, these persons have
the stamp of dishonesty; the Scriptures bear the stamp of a divine
origin.
Of the same stamp is that which is obtruded on us, that an adamant
suspends the attraction of the loadstone. Sir T. Browne.

10. Make; cast; form; character; as, a man of the same stamp, or of a
different stamp.
A soldier of this season's stamp. Shak.

11. A kind of heavy hammer, or pestle, raised by water or steam
power, for beating ores to powder; anything like a pestle, used for
pounding or bathing.

12. A half-penny. [Obs.] au. & Fl.

13. pl.

Defn: Money, esp. paper money. [Slang, U.S.] Stamp act, an act of the
British Parliament [1765] imposing a duty on all paper, vellum, and
parchment used in the American colonies, and declaring all writings
on unstamped materials to be null an void.
 -- Stamp collector, an officer who receives or collects stamp
duties; one who collects postage or other stamps.
 -- Stamp duty, a duty, or tax, imposed on paper and parchment used
for certain writings, as deeds, conveyances, etc., the evidence of
the payment of the duty or tax being a stamp. [Eng.] -- Stamp hammer,
a hammer, worked by power, which rises and falls vertically, like a
stamp in a stamp mill.
 -- Stamp head, a heavy mass of metal, forming the head or lower end
of a bar, which is lifted and let fall, in a stamp mill.
 -- Stamp mill (Mining), a mill in which ore is crushed with stamps;
also, a machine for stamping ore.
 -- Stamp note, a stamped certificate from a customhouse officer,
which allows goods to be received by the captain of a ship as
freight. [Eng.] -- Stamp office, an office for the issue of stamps
and the reception of stamp duties.

STAMPEDE
Stam*pede", n. Etym: [Sp. estampida (in America) a stampede,
estampido a crackling, akin to estampar to stamp, of German origin.
See Stamp, v. t.]

Defn: A wild, headlong scamper, or running away, of a number of
animals; usually caused by fright; hence, any sudden flight or
dispersion, as of a crowd or an army in consequence of a panic.
She and her husband would join in the general stampede. W. Black.

STAMPEDE
Stam*pede", v. i.

Defn: To run away in a panic; -- said droves of cattle, horses, etc.,
also of armies.

STAMPEDE
Stam*pede", v. t.

Defn: To disperse by causing sudden fright, as a herd or drove of
animals.

STAMPER
Stamp"er, n.

1. One who stamps.

2. An instrument for pounding or stamping.

STAMPING
Stamp"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Stamp, v. Stamping ground, a place frequented, and much
trodden, by animals, wild or domesticated; hence (Colloq.), the scene
of one's labors or exploits; also, one's favorite resort. [U.S.] --
Stamping machine, a machine for forming metallic articles or
impressions by stamping.
 -- Stamping mill (Mining), a stamp mill.

STANCE
Stance, n. Etym: [OF. estance. See Stanza.]

1. A stanza. [Obs.] Chapman.

2. A station; a position; a site. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

STANCH
Stanch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stanched; p. pr. & vb. n. Stanching.]
Etym: [OF. estanchier, F. etancher to stpo a liquid from flowing;
akin to Pr., Sp., & Pg. estancar, It. stancare to weary, LL.
stancare, stagnare, to stanch, fr. L. stagnare to be or make
stagnant. See Stagnate.]

1. To stop the flowing of, as blood; to check; also, to stop the
flowing of blood from; as, to stanch a wound. [Written also staunch.]
Iron or a stone laid to the neck doth stanch the bleeding of the
nose. Bacon.

2. To extinguish; to quench, as fire or thirst. [Obs.]

STANCH
Stanch, v. i.

Defn: To cease, as the flowing of blood.
Immediately her issue of blood stanched. Luke viii. 44.

STANCH
Stanch, n.

1. That which stanches or checks. [Obs.]

2. A flood gate by which water is accumulated, for floating a boat
over a shallow part of a stream by its release. Knight.

STANCH
Stanch, a. [Compar. Stancher; superl. Stanchest.] Etym: [From Stanch,
v. t., and hence literally signifying, stopped or stayed; cf. Sp.
estanco stopped, tight, not leaky, as a ship. See Stanch, v. t.]
[Written also staunch.]

1. Strong and tight; sound; firm; as, a stanch ship.
One of the closets is parqueted with plain deal, set in diamond,
exceeding stanch and pretty. Evelyn.

2. Firm in principle; constant and zealous; loyal; hearty; steady;
steadfast; as, a stanch churchman; a stanch friend or adherent. V.
Knox.
In politics I hear you 're stanch. Prior.

3. Close; secret; private. [Obs.]
This to be kept stanch. Locke.

STANCH
Stanch, v. t.

Defn: To prop; to make stanch, or strong.
His gathered sticks to stanch the wall Of the snow tower when snow
should fall. Emerson.

STANCHEL
Stan"chel, n.

Defn: A stanchion.

STANCHER
Stanch"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stanches, or stops, the flowing, as of
blood.

STANCHION
Stan"chion, n. Etym: [OF. estanson, estancon, F. etancon, from OF.
estance a stay, a prop, from L. stans, stantis, standing, p.pr. of
stare to stand. See Stand, and cf. Stanza.] [Written also stanchel.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A prop or support; a piece of timber in the form of a stake or
post, used for a support or stay.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Any upright post or beam used as a support, as for the deck,
the quarter rails, awnings, etc.

3. A vertical bar for confining cattle in a stall.

STANCHLESS
Stanch"less, a.

1. Incapable of being stanched, or stopped.

2. Unquenchable; insatiable. [Obs.] Shak.

STANCHLY
Stanch"ly, adv.

Defn: In a stanch manner.

STANCHNESS
Stanch"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stanch.

STAND
Stand, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stood; p. pr. & vb. n. Standing.] Etym:
[OE. standen; AS. standan; akin to OFries. stonda, stan, D. staan,
OS. standan, stan, G. stehen, Icel. standa, Dan. staae, Sw. sta,
Goth. standan, Russ. stoiate, L. stare, Gr. stha. *163. Cf. Assist,
Constant, Contrast, Desist, Destine, Ecstasy, Exist, Interstice,
Obstacle, Obstinate, Prest, n., Rest remainder, Soltice, Stable, a. &
n., State, n., Statute, Stead, Steed, Stool, Stud of horses,
Substance, System.]

1. To be at rest in an erect position; to be fixed in an upright or
firm position; as:
(a) To be supported on the feet, in an erect or nearly erect
position; -- opposed to lie, sit, kneel, etc. "I pray you all, stand
up!" Shak.
(b) To continue upright in a certain locality, as a tree fixed by the
roots, or a building resting on its foundation.
It stands as it were to the ground yglued. Chaucer.
The ruined wall Stands when its wind worn battlements are gone.
Byron.

2. To occupy or hold a place; to have a situation; to be situated or
located; as, Paris stands on the Seine.
Wite ye not where there stands a little town Chaucer.

3. To cease from progress; not to proceed; to stop; to pause; to
halt; to remain stationary.
I charge thee, stand, And tell thy name. Dryden.
The star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came
and stood over where the young child was. Matt. ii. 9.

4. To remain without ruin or injury; to hold good against tendencies
to impair or injure; to be permanent; to endure; to last; hence, to
find endurance, strength, or resources.
My mind on its own center stands unmoved. Dryden.

5. To maintain one's ground; to be acquitted; not to fail or yield;
to be safe.
Readers by whose judgment I would stand or fall. Spectator.

6. To maintain an invincible or permanent attitude; to be fixed,
steady, or firm; to take a position in resistance or opposition. "The
standing pattern of their imitation." South.
The king granted the Jews . . . to gather themselves together, and to
stand for their life. Esther viii. 11.

7. To adhere to fixed principles; to maintain moral rectitude; to
keep from falling into error or vice.
We must labor so as to stand with godliness, according to his
appointment. Latimer.

8. To have or maintain a position, order, or rank; to be in a
particular relation; as, Christian charity, or love, stands first in
the rank of gifts.

9. To be in some particular state; to have essence or being; to be;
to consist. "Sacrifices . . . which stood only in meats and drinks."
Heb. ix. 10.
Accomplish what your signs foreshow; I stand resigned, and am
prepared to go. Dryden.
Thou seest how it stands with me, and that I may not tarry. Sir W.
Scott.

10. To be consistent; to agree; to accord.
Doubt me not; by heaven, I will do nothing But what may stand with
honor. Massinger.

11. (Naut.)

Defn: To hold a course at sea; as, to stand from the shore; to stand
for the harbor.
From the same parts of heaven his navy stands. Dryden.

12. To offer one's self, or to be offered, as a candidate.
He stood to be elected one of the proctors of the university. Walton.

13. To stagnate; not to flow; to be motionless.
Or the black water of Pomptina stands. Dryden.

14. To measure when erect on the feet.
Six feet two, as I think, he stands. Tennyson.

15. (Law)
(a) To be or remain as it is; to continue in force; to have efficacy
or validity; to abide. Bouvier.
(b) To appear in court. Burrill. Stand by (Naut.), a preparatory
order, equivalent to Be ready.
 -- To stand against, to opposite; to resist.
 -- To stand by. (a) To be near; to be a spectator; to be present.
(b) To be aside; to be aside with disregard. "In the interim [we] let
the commands stand by neglected." Dr. H. More. (c) To maintain; to
defend; to support; not to desert; as, to stand by one's principles
or party. (d) To rest on for support; to be supported by. Whitgift.
 -- To stand corrected, to be set right, as after an error in a
statement of fact. Wycherley.
 -- To stand fast, to be fixed; to be unshaken or immovable.
 -- To stand firmly on, to be satisfied or convinced of. "Though Page
be a secure fool, and stands so firmly on his wife's frailty." Shak.
 -- To stand for. (a) To side with; to espouse the cause of; to
support; to maintain, or to profess or attempt to maintain; to
defend. "I stand wholly for you." Shak. (b) To be in the place of; to
be the substitute or to represent; as, a cipher at the left hand of a
figure stands for nothing. "I will not trouble myself, whether these
names stand for the same thing, or really include one another."
Locke.
 -- To stand in, to cost. "The same standeth them in much less cost."
Robynson (More's Utopia).
The Punic wars could not have stood the human race in less than three
millions of the species. Burke.
-- To stand in hand, to conduce to one's interest; to be serviceable
or advantageous.
 -- To stand off. (a) To keep at a distance. (b) Not to comply. (c)
To keep at a distance in friendship, social intercourse, or
acquaintance. (d) To appear prominent; to have relief. "Picture is
best when it standeth off, as if it were carved." Sir H. Wotton.
 -- To stand off and on (Naut.), to remain near a coast by sailing
toward land and then from it.
 -- To stand on (Naut.), to continue on the same tack or course.
 -- To stand out. (a) To project; to be prominent. "Their eyes stand
out with fatness." Psalm lxxiii. 7. (b) To persist in opposition or
resistance; not to yield or comply; not to give way or recede.
His spirit is come in, That so stood out against the holy church.
Shak.
-- To stand to. (a) To ply; to urge; to persevere in using. "Stand to
your tackles, mates, and stretch your oars." Dryden. (b) To remain
fixed in a purpose or opinion. "I will stand to it, that this is his
sense." Bp. Stillingfleet. (c) To abide by; to adhere to; as to a
contrast, assertion, promise, etc.; as, to stand to an award; to
stand to one's word. (d) Not to yield; not to fly; to maintain, as
one's ground. "Their lives and fortunes were put in safety, whether
they stood to it or ran away." Bacon. (e) To be consistent with; to
agree with; as, it stands to reason that he could not have done so.
(f) To support; to uphold. "Stand to me in this cause." Shak.
 -- To stand together, to be consistent; to agree.
 -- To stand to sea (Naut.), to direct the course from land.
 -- To stand under, to undergo; to withstand. Shak.
 -- To stand up. (a) To rise from sitting; to be on the feet. (b) To
arise in order to speak or act. "Against whom, when the accusers
stood up, they brought none accusation of such things as I supposed."
Acts xxv. 18. (c) To rise and stand on end, as the hair. (d) To put
one's self in opposition; to contend. "Once we stood up about the
corn." Shak.
 -- To stand up for, to defend; to justify; to support, or attempt to
support; as, to stand up for the administration.
 -- To stand upon. (a) To concern; to interest. (b) To value; to
esteem. "We highly esteem and stand much upon our birth." Ray. (c) To
insist on; to attach much importance to; as, to stand upon security;
to stand upon ceremony. (d) To attack; to assault. [A Hebraism] "So I
stood upon him, and slew him." 2 Sam. i. 10.
 -- To stand with, to be consistent with. "It stands with reason that
they should be rewarded liberally." Sir J. Davies.

STAND
Stand, v. t.

1. To endure; to sustain; to bear; as, I can not stand the cold or
the heat.

2. To resist, without yielding or receding; to withstand. "Love stood
the siege." Dryden.
He stood the furious foe. Pope.

3. To abide by; to submit to; to suffer.
Bid him disband his legions, . . . And stand the judgment of a Roman
senate. Addison.

4. To set upright; to cause to stand; as, to stand a book on the
shelf; to stand a man on his feet.

5. To be at the expense of; to pay for; as, to stand a treat.
[Colloq.] Tackeray. To stand fire, to receive the fire of arms from
an enemy without giving way.
 -- To stand one's ground, to keep the ground or station one has
taken; to maintain one's position. "Pleasants and burghers, however
brave, are unable to stand their ground against veteran soldiers."
Macaulay.
 -- To stand trial, to sustain the trial or examination of a cause;
not to give up without trial.

STAND
Stand, n. Etym: [As. stand. See Stand, v. i.]

1. The act of standing.
I took my stand upon an eminence . . . to look into thier several
ladings. Spectator.

2. A halt or stop for the purpose of defense, resistance, or
opposition; as, to come to, or to make, a stand.
Vice is at stand, and at the highest flow. Dryden.

3. A place or post where one stands; a place where one may stand
while observing or waiting for something.
I have found you out a stand most fit, Where you may have such
vantage on the duke, He shall not pass you. Shak.

4. A station in a city or town where carriages or wagons stand for
hire; as, a cab stand. Dickens.

5. A raised platform or station where a race or other outdoor
spectacle may be viewed; as, the judge's or the grand stand at a race
course.

6. A small table; also, something on or in which anything may be
laid, hung, or placed upright; as, a hat stand; an umbrella stand; a
music stand.

7. A place where a witness stands to testify in court.

8. The situation of a shop, store, hotel, etc.; as, a good, bad, or
convenient stand for business. [U. S.]

9. Rank; post; station; standing.
Father, since your fortune did attain So high a stand, I mean not to
descend. Daniel.

10. A state of perplexity or embarrassment; as, to be at a stand what
to do. L'Estrange.

11. A young tree, usually reserved when other trees are cut; also, a
tree growing or standing upon its own root, in distinction from one
produced from a scion set in a stock, either of the same or another
kind of tree.

12. (Com.)

Defn: A weight of from two hundred and fifty to three hundred pounds,
-- used in weighing pitch. Microscope stand, the instrument,
excepting the eyepiece, objective, and other removable optical parts.
 -- Stand of ammunition, the projectile, cartridge, and sabot
connected together.
 -- Stand of arms. (Mil.) See under Arms.
 -- Stand of colors (Mil.), a single color, or flag. Wilhelm (Mil.
Dict.) -- To be at a stand, to be stationary or motionless; to be at
a standstill; hence, to be perplexed; to be embarrassed.
 -- To make a stand, to halt for the purpose of offering resistance
to a pursuing enemy.

Syn.
 -- Stop; halt; rest; interruption; obstruction; perplexity;
difficulty; embarrassment; hesitation.

STANDAGE
Stand"age, n. (Mining)

Defn: A reservior in which water accumulates at the bottom of a mine.

STANDARD
Stand"ard, n. Etym: [OF. estendart, F. etendard, probably fr. L.
extendere to spread out, extend, but influenced by E. stand. See
Extend.]

1. A flag; colors; a banner; especially, a national or other ensign.
His armies, in the following day, On those fair plains their
standards proud display. Fairfax.

2. That which is established by authority as a rule for the measure
of quantity, extent, value, or quality; esp., the original specimen
weight or measure sanctioned by government, as the standard pound,
gallon, or yard.

3. That which is established as a rule or model by authority, custom,
or general consent; criterion; test.
The court, which used to be the standard of property and correctness
of speech. Swift.
A disposition to preserve, and an ability to improve, taken together,
would be my standard of a statesman. Burke.

4. (Coinage)

Defn: The proportion of weights of fine metal and alloy established
by authority.
By the present standard of the coinage, sixty-two shillings is coined
out of one pound weight of silver. Arbuthnot.

5. (Hort.)

Defn: A tree of natural size supported by its own stem, and not
dwarfed by grafting on the stock of a smaller species nor trained
upon a wall or trellis.
In France part of their gardens is laid out for flowers, others for
fruits; some standards, some against walls. Sir W. Temple.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: The upper petal or banner of a papilionaceous corolla.

7. (Mech. & Carp.)

Defn: An upright support, as one of the poles of a scaffold; any
upright in framing.

8. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: An inverted knee timber placed upon the deck instead of beneath
it, with its vertical branch turned upward from that which lies
horizontally.

9. The sheth of a plow.

10. A large drinking cup. Greene. Standard bearer, an officer of an
army, company, or troop, who bears a standard; -- commonly called
color sergeantor color bearer; hence, the leader of any organization;
as, the standard bearer of a political party.

STANDARD
Stand"ard, a.

1. Being, affording, or according with, a standard for comparison and
judgment; as, standard time; standard weights and measures; a
standard authority as to nautical terms; standard gold or silver.

2. Hence: Having a recognized and permanent value; as, standard works
in history; standard authors.

3. (Hort.)
(a) Not supported by, or fastened to, a wall; as, standard fruit
trees.
(b) Not of the dwarf kind; as, a standard pear tree. Standard candle,
Standard gauge. See under Candle, and Gauge.
 -- Standard solution. (Chem.) See Standardized solution, under
Solution.

STANDARD-BRED
Stand"ard-bred`, a.

Defn: Bred in conformity to a standard. Specif., applied to a
registered trotting horse which comes up to the standard adopted by
the National Association of Trotting-horse Breeders. [U. S.]

STANDARDIZE
Stand"ard*ize, v. t. (Chem.)

Defn: To reduce to a normal standard; to calculate or adjust the
strength of, by means of, and for uses in, analysis.

STANDARD-WING
Stand"ard-wing`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A curious paradise bird (Semioptera Wallacii) which has two
long special feathers standing erect on each wing.

STAND-BY
Stand"-by`, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stands by one in need; something upon
which one relies for constant use or in an emergency.

STANDEL
Stand"el, n.

Defn: A young tree, especially one reserved when others are cut.
[Obs.] Fuller.

STANDER
Stand"er, n.

1. One who stands.

2. Same as Standel. [Obs.] Ascham.

STANDERATH; STANDERAT
Stan"de*rath`, or Stan"de*rat`, n. [G.] (Switzerland)

Defn: See Legislature, above.

STANDER-BY
Stand"er-by`, n.

Defn: One who stands near; one who is present; a bystander.

STANDERGRASS
Stand"er*grass`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Orchis mascula); -- called also standerwort, and long
purple. See Long purple, under Long.

STANDGALE
Stand"gale`, n.

Defn: See Stannel. [Prov. Eng.]

STANDING
Stand"ing, a.

1. Remaining erect; not cut down; as, standing corn.

2. Not flowing; stagnant; as, standing water.

3. Not transitory; not liable to fade or vanish; lasting; as, a
standing color.

4. Established by law, custom, or the like; settled; continually
existing; permanent; not temporary; as, a standing army; legislative
bodies have standing rules of proceeding and standing committees.

5. Not movable; fixed; as, a standing bed (distinguished from a
trundle-bed). Standing army. See Standing army, under Army.
 -- Standing bolt. See Stud bolt, under Stud, a stem.
 -- Standing committee, in legislative bodies, etc., a committee
appointed for the consideration of all subjects of a particular class
which shall arise during the session or a stated period.
 -- Standing cup, a tall goblet, with a foot and a cover.
 -- Standing finish (Arch.), that part of the interior fittings, esp.
of a dwelling house, which is permanent and fixed in its place, as
distinguished from doors, sashes, etc.
 -- Standing order (Eccl.), the denomination (Congregiational)
established by law; -- a term formerly used in Connecticut. See also
under Order.
 -- Standing part. (Naut.) (a) That part of a tackle which is made
fast to a block, point, or other object. (b) That part of a rope
around which turns are taken with the running part in making a knot
of the like.
 -- Standing rigging (Naut.), the cordage or rope which sustain the
masts and remain fixed in their position, as the shrouds and stays, -
- distinguished from running rigging.

STANDING
Stand"ing, n.

1. The act of stopping, or coming to a stand; the state of being
erect upon the feet; stand.

2. Maintenance of position; duration; duration or existence in the
same place or condition; continuance; as, a custom of long standing;
an officer of long standing.
An ancient thing of long standing. Bunyan.

3. Place to stand in; station; stand.
I will provide you a good standing to see his entry. Bacon.
I think in deep mire, where there is no standing. Ps. lxix. 2.

4. Condition in society; relative position; reputation; rank; as, a
man of good standing, or of high standing. Standing off (Naut.),
sailing from the land.
 -- Standing on (Naut.), sailing toward land.

STANDISH
Stand"ish, n. Etym: [Stand + dish.]

Defn: A stand, or case, for pen and ink.
I bequeath to Dean Swift, Esq., my large silver standish. Swift.

STANDPIPE
Stand"pipe`, n.

1. (Engin.)

Defn: A vertical pipe, open at the top, between a hydrant and a
reservoir, to equalize the flow of water; also, a large vertical
pipe, near a pumping engine, into which water is forced up, so as to
give it sufficient head to rise to the required level at a distance.

2. (Steam Boiler)

Defn: A supply pipe of sufficient elevation to enable the water to
flow into the boiler, notwithstanding the pressure of the steam.
Knight.

STANDPOINT
Stand"point`, n. Etym: [Cf. G. standpunkt.]

Defn: A fixed point or station; a basis or fundamental principle; a
position from which objects or principles are viewed, and according
to which they are compared and judged.

STANDSTILL
Stand"still`, n.

Defn: A standing without moving forward or backward; a stop; a state
or rest.

STANE
Stane, n.

Defn: A stone. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

STANG
Stang,

Defn: imp. of Sting. [Archaic]

STANG
Stang, n. Etym: [OE. stange, of Scand. or Dutch origin; cf. Icel.
stong, akin to Dan. stang, Sw. stang, D. stang, G. stange, OHG.
stanga, AS. steng; from the root of E. sting.]

1. A long bar; a pole; a shaft; a stake.

2. In land measure, a pole, rod, or perch. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
Swift. Stang ball, a projectile consisting of two half balls united
by a bar; a bar shot. See Illust. of Bar shot, under Bar.
 -- To ride the stang, to be carried on a pole on men's shoulders.
This method of punishing wife beaters, etc., was once in vogue in
some parts of England.

STANG
Stang, v. i. Etym: [Akin to sting; cf. Icel. stanga to prick, to
goad.]

Defn: To shoot with pain. [Prov. Eng.]

STANHOPE
Stan"hope, n.

Defn: A light two-wheeled, or sometimes four-wheeled, carriage,
without a top; -- so called from Lord Stanhope, for whom it was
contrived.

STANIEL
Stan"iel, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Stannel.

STANIELRY
Stan"iel*ry, n.

Defn: Hawking with staniels, -- a base kind of falconry. [Obs.]

STANK
Stank, a. Etym: [OF. estanc, or It. stanco. See Stanch, a.]

Defn: Weak; worn out. [Obs.] Spenser.

STANK
Stank, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Sw. stanka to pant. *165.]

Defn: To sigh. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

STANK
Stank, imp. of Stink.

Defn: Stunk.

STANK
Stank, n. Etym: [OF. estang, F. etang, from L. stagnum a pool. Cf.
Stagnate, Tank a cistern.]

1. Water retained by an embankment; a pool water. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.] Robert of Brunne.

2. A dam or mound to stop water. [Prov. Eng.] Stank hen (Zool.), the
moor hen; -- called also stankie. [Prov. Eng.]

STANNARY
Stan"na*ry, a. Etym: [L. stannum tin, an alloy of silver and lead.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to tin mines, or tin works.
The stannary courts of Devonshire and Cornwall, for the
administration of justice among the tinners therein, are also courts
of record. Blackstone.

STANNARY
Stan"na*ry, n.; pl. Stannaries. Etym: [LL. stannaria.]

Defn: A tin mine; tin works. Bp. Hall.

STANNATE
Stan"nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stannate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of stannic acid.

STANNEL
Stan"nel, n. Etym: [AS. stangella, stangilla; properly, stone yeller,
i.e., a bird that yells from the rocks. See Stone, and Yell, and cf.
Stonegall.] (Zool.)

Defn: The kestrel; -- called also standgale, standgall, stanchel,
stand hawk, stannel hawk, steingale, stonegall. [Written also
staniel, stannyel, and stanyel.]
With what wing the staniel checks at it. Shak.

STANNIC
Stan"nic, a. Etym: [L. stannum tin: cf. F. stannique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tin; derived from or containing tin;
specifically, designating those compounds in which the element has a
higher valence as contrasted with stannous compounds. Stannic acid.
(a) A hypothetical substance, Sn(OH)4, analogous to silic acid, and
called also normal stannic acid. (b) Metastannic acid.
 -- Stannic chloride, a thin, colorless, fuming liquid, SnCl4, used
as a mordant in calico printing and dyeing; -- formerly called spirit
of tin, or fuming liquor of Libavius.
 -- Stannic oxide, tin oxide, SnO2, produced artificially as a white
amorphous powder, and occurring naturally in the mineral cassiterite.
It is used in the manufacture of white enamels, and, under the name
of putty powder, for polishing glass, etc.

STANNIFEROUS
Stan*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. stannum tin + -ferous.]

Defn: Containing or affording tin.

STANNINE; STANNITE
Stan"nine, Stan"nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a steel

STANNO-
Stan"no-. Etym: [L. stannum tin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting relation to,
or connection with, tin, or including tin as an ingredient.

STANNOFLUORIDE
Stan`no*flu"or*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of double fluorides of tin (stannum) and
some other element.

STANNOSO-
Stan*no"so-, a. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting relation to,
or connection with, certain stannnous compounds.

STANNOTYPE
Stan"no*type, n. Etym: [Stanno- + -type.] (Photog.)

Defn: A photograph taken upon a tin plate; a tintype.

STANNOUS
Stan"nous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, tin; specifically, designating
those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as
contrasted with stannic compounds. Stannous chloride (Chem.), a white
crystalline substance, SnCl2.(H2O)2, obtained by dissolving tin in
hydrochloric acid. It is used as a mordant in dyeing.

STANNUM
Stan"num, n. Etym: [L., alloy of silver and lead; later, tin.]
(Chem.)

Defn: The technical name of tin. See Tin.

STANNYEL; STANYEL
Stann"yel, Stan"yel, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Stannel.

STANT; STONT
Stant, Stont, obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Stand, for standeth.

Defn: Stands. Chaucer.

STANZA
Stan"za, n.; pl. Stanzas. Etym: [It. stanza a room, habitation, a
stanza, i. e., a stop, fr. L. stans, p.pr. of stare to stand. See
Stand, and cf. Estancia, Stance, Stanchion.]

1. A number of lines or verses forming a division of a song or poem,
and agreeing in meter, rhyme, number of lines, etc., with other
divisions; a part of a poem, ordinarily containing every variation of
measure in that poem; a combination or arrangement of lines usually
recurring; whether like or unlike, in measure.
Horace confines himself strictly to one sort of verse, or stanza, in
every ode. Dryden.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An apartment or division in a building; a room or chamber.

STANZAIC
Stan*za"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or consisting of, stanzas; as, a couplet in
stanzaic form.

STAPEDIAL
Sta*pe"di*al, a. Etym: [LL. stapes stirrup.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to stapes.

STAPELIA
Sta*pe"li*a, n. Etym: [NL. So named after John Bod?us a Stapel, a
physician of Amsterdam.] (Bot.)

Defn: An extensive and curious genus of African plants of the natural
order Asclepiadace? (Milkweed family). They are succulent plants
without leaves, frequently covered with dark tubercles giving them a
very grotesque appearance. The odor of the blossoms is like that of
carrion.

STAPES
Sta"pes, n. Etym: [LL., a stirrup.] (Anat.)

Defn: The innermost of the ossicles of the ear; the stirrup, or
stirrup bone; -- so called from its form. See Illust. of Ear.

STAPHYLINE
Staph"y*line, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the uvula or the palate.

STAPHYLINID
Staph`y*li"nid, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any rove beetle.

STAPHYLOMA
Staph`y*lo"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A protrusion of any part of the globe of the eye; as, a
staphyloma of the cornea.

STAPHYLOMATOUS
Staph`y*lo"ma*tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to staphyloma; affected with staphyloma.

STAPHYLOPLASTY
Staph"y*lo*plas`ty, n. Etym: [Gr. -plasty.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation for restoring or replacing the soft palate when
it has been lost. Dunglison.
 -- Staph`y*lo*plas"tic, a.

STAPHYLORAPHY; STAPHYLORRHAPHY
Staph`y*lor"a*phy, Staph`y*lor"rha*phy, n. Etym: [Gr.
staphylorraphie.]

Defn: The operation of uniting a cleft palate, consisting in paring
and bringing together the edges of the cleft.
 -- Staph`y*lo*raph"ic, Staph`y*lor*rhaph"ic, a.

STAPHYLOTOMY
Staph`y*lot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of removing a staphyloma by cutting.

STAPLE
Sta"ple, n. Etym: [AS. stapul, stapol, stapel, a step, a prop, post,
table, fr. stapan to step, go, raise; akin to D. stapel a pile,
stocks, emporium, G. stapela heap, mart, stake, staffel step of a
ladder, Sw. stapel, Dan. stabel, and E. step cf. OF. estaple a mart,
F. etape. See Step.]

1. A settled mart; an emporium; a city or town to which merchants
brought commodities for sale or exportation in bulk; a place for
wholesale traffic.
The customs of Alexandria were very great, it having been the staple
of the Indian trade. Arbuthnot.
For the increase of trade and the encouragement of the worthy
burgesses of Woodstock, her majesty was minded to erect the town into
a staple for wool. Sir W. Scott.

Note: In England, formerly, the king's staple was established in
certain ports or towns, and certain goods could not be exported
without being first brought to these places to be rated and charged
with the duty payable of the king or the public. The principal
commodities on which customs were lived were wool, skins, and
leather; and these were originally the staple commodities.

2. Hence: Place of supply; source; fountain head.
Whitehall naturally became the chief staple of news. Whenever there
was a rumor that any thing important had happened or was about to
happen, people hastened thither to obtain intelligence from the
fountain head. Macaulay.

3. The principal commodity of traffic in a market; a principal
commodity or production of a country or district; as, wheat, maize,
and cotton are great staples of the United States.
We should now say, Cotton is the great staple, that is, the
established merchandize, of Manchester. Trench.

4. The principal constituent in anything; chief item.

5. Unmanufactured material; raw material.

6. The fiber of wool, cotton, flax, or the like; as, a coarse staple;
a fine staple; a long or short staple.

7. A loop of iron, or a bar or wire, bent and formed with two points
to be driven into wood, to hold a hook, pin, or the like.

8. (Mining)
(a) A shaft, smaller and shorter than the principal one, joining
different levels.
(b) A small pit.

9. A district granted to an abbey. [Obs.] Camden.

STAPLE
Sta"ple, a.

1. Pertaining to, or being market of staple for, commodities; as, a
staple town. [R.]

2. Established in commerce; occupying the markets; settled; as, a
staple trade. Dryden.

3. Fit to be sold; marketable. [R.] Swift.

4. Regularly produced or manufactured in large quantities; belonging
to wholesale traffic; principal; chief.
Wool, the great staple commodity of England. H

STAPLE
Sta"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. stapled; p. pr. & vb. n. stapling.]

Defn: To sort according to its staple; as, to staple cotton.

STAPLER
Sta"pler, n.

1. A dealer in staple goods.

2. One employed to assort wool according to its staple.

STAR
Star, n. Etym: [OE. sterre, AS. steorra; akin to OFries. stera, OS.
sterro, D. ster, OHG. sterno, sterro, G. stern, Icel. stjarna, Sw.
stjerna, Dan. stierne, Goth. stairno, Armor. & Corn. stern, L.
stella, Gr. star; perhaps from a root meaning, to seater, Skr. st, L.
sternere (cf. Stratum), and originally applied to the stars as
beingstrewn over the sky, or as beingscatterers or spreaders of
light. *296. Cf. Aster, Asteroid, Constellation, Disaster, Stellar.]

1. One of the innumerable luminous bodies seen in the heavens; any
heavenly body other than the sun, moon, comets, and nebul?.
His eyen twinkled in his head aright, As do the stars in the frosty
night. Chaucer.

Note: The stars are distinguished as planets, and fixed stars. See
Planet, Fixed stars under Fixed, and Magnitude of a star under
Magnitude.

2. The polestar; the north star. Shak.

3. (Astrol.)

Defn: A planet supposed to influence one's destiny; (usually pl.) a
configuration of the planets, supposed to influence fortune.
O malignant and ill-brooding stars. Shak.
Blesses his stars, and thinks it luxury. Addison.

4. That which resembles the figure of a star, as an ornament worn on
the breast to indicate rank or honor.
On whom . . . Lavish Honor showered all her stars. Tennyson.

5. Specifically, a radiated mark in writing or printing; an asterisk
[thus, *]; -- used as a reference to a note, or to fill a blank where
something is omitted, etc.

6. (Pyrotechny)

Defn: A composition of combustible matter used in the heading of
rockets, in mines, etc., which, exploding of a air, presents a
starlike appearance.

7. A person of brilliant and attractive qualities, especially on
public occasions, as a distinguished orator, a leading theatrical
performer, etc.

Note: Star is used in the formation of compound words generally or
obvious signification: as, star-aspiring, star-bespangled, star-
bestudded, star-blasting, star-bright, star-crowned, star-directed,
star-eyed, star-headed, star-paved, star-roofed; star-sprinkled,
star-wreathed.

Blazing star, Double star, Multiple star, Shooting star, etc. See
under Blazing, Double, etc.
 -- Nebulous star (Astron.), a small well-defined circular nebula,
having a bright nucleus at its center like a star.
 -- Star anise (Bot.), any plant of the genus Illicium; -- so called
from its star-shaped capsules.
 -- Star apple (Bot.), a tropical American tree (Chrysophyllum
Cainito), having a milky juice and oblong leaves with a silky-golden
pubescence beneath. It bears an applelike fruit, the carpels of which
present a starlike figure when cut across. The name is extended to
the whole genus of about sixty species, and the natural order
(Sapotace?) to which it belongs is called the Star-apple family.
 -- Star conner, one who cons, or studies, the stars; an astronomer
or an astrologer. Gascoigne.
 -- Star coral (Zool.), any one of numerous species of stony corals
belonging to Astr?a, Orbicella, and allied genera, in which the
calicles are round or polygonal and contain conspicuous radiating
septa.
 -- Star cucumber. (Bot.) See under Cucumber.
 -- Star flower. (Bot.) (a) A plant of the genus Ornithogalum; star-
of-Bethlehem. (b) See Starwort (b). (c) An American plant of the
genus Trientalis (Trientalis Americana). Gray.
 -- Star fort (Fort.), a fort surrounded on the exterior with
projecting angles; -- whence the name.
 -- Star gauge (Ordnance), a long rod, with adjustable points
projecting radially at its end, for measuring the size of different
parts of the bore of a gun.
 -- Star grass. (Bot.) (a) A small grasslike plant (Hypoxis erecta)
having star-shaped yellow flowers. (b) The colicroot. See Colicroot.
 -- Star hyacinth (Bot.), a bulbous plant of the genus Scilla (S.
autumnalis); -- called also star-headed hyacinth.
 -- Star jelly (Bot.), any one of several gelatinous plants (Nostoc
commune, N. edule, etc.). See Nostoc.
 -- Star lizard. (Zool.) Same as Stellion.
 -- Star-of-Bethlehem (Bot.), a bulbous liliaceous plant
(Ornithogalum umbellatum) having a small white starlike flower.
 -- Star-of-the-earth (Bot.), a plant of the genus Plantago (P.
coronopus), growing upon the seashore.
 -- Star polygon (Geom.), a polygon whose sides cut each other so as
to form a star-shaped figure.
 -- Stars and Stripes, a popular name for the flag of the United
States, which consists of thirteen horizontal stripes, alternately
red and white, and a union having, in a blue field, white stars to
represent the several States, one for each.
With the old flag, the true American flag, the Eagle, and the Stars
and Stripes, waving over the chamber in which we sit. D. Webster.
-- Star showers. See Shooting star, under Shooting.
 -- Star thistle (Bot.), an annual composite plant (Centaurea
solstitialis) having the involucre armed with radiating spines.
 -- Star wheel (Mach.), a star-shaped disk, used as a kind of ratchet
wheel, in repeating watches and the feed motions of some machines.
 -- Star worm (Zool.), a gephyrean.
 -- Temporary star (Astron.), a star which appears suddenly, shines
for a period, and then nearly or quite disappears. These stars are
supposed by some astronometers to be variable stars of long and
undetermined periods.
 -- Variable star (Astron.), a star whose brilliancy varies
periodically, generally with regularity, but sometimes irregularly; -
- called periodical star when its changes occur at fixed periods.
 -- Water star grass (Bot.), an aquatic plant (Schollera graminea)
with small yellow starlike blossoms.

STAR
Star, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Starred; p. pr. & vb. n. Starring.]

Defn: To set or adorn with stars, or bright, radiating bodies; to
bespangle; as, a robe starred with gems. "A sable curtain starred
with gold." Young.

STAR
Star, v. i.

Defn: To be bright, or attract attention, as a star; to shine like a
star; to be brilliant or prominent; to play a part as a theatrical
star. W. Irving.

STAR-BLIND
Star"-blind`, a.

Defn: Half blind.

STARBOARD
Star"board`, n. Etym: [OE. sterbord, AS. steorbord, i.e., steer
board. See Steer, v. t., Board of a vessel, and cf. Larboard.]
(Naut.)

Defn: That side of a vessel which is one of the right hand of a
person who stands on board facing the bow; -- opposed to Ant:
larboard, or Ant: port.

STARBOARD
Star"board`, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Pertaining to the right-hand side of a ship; being or lying on
the right side; as, the starboard quarter; starboard tack.

STARBOARD
Star"board`, v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: To put to the right, or starboard, side of a vessel; as, to
starboard the helm.

STAR-BOWLINES
Star-"bow`lines, n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: The men in the starboard watch. [Obs.] R. H. Dana, Jr.

STARCH
Starch, a. Etym: [AS. stearc stark, strong, rough. See Stark.]

Defn: Stiff; precise; rigid. [R.] Killingbeck.

STARCH
Starch, n. Etym: [From starch stiff, cf. G. starke, fr. stark
strong.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A widely diffused vegetable substance found especially in
seeds, bulbs, and tubers, and extracted (as from potatoes, corn,
rice, etc.) as a white, glistening, granular or powdery substance,
without taste or smell, and giving a very peculiar creaking sound
when rubbed between the fingers. It is used as a food, in the
production of commercial grape sugar, for stiffening linen in
laundries, in making paste, etc.

Note: Starch is a carbohydrate, being the typical amylose, C6H10O5,
and is detected by the fine blue color given to it by free iodine. It
is not fermentable as such, but is changed by diastase into dextrin
and maltose, and by heating with dilute acids into dextrose. Cf.
Sugar, Inulin, and Lichenin.

2. Fig.: A stiff, formal manner; formality. Addison. Starch hyacinth
(Bot.), the grape hyacinth; -- so called because the flowers have the
smell of boiled starch. See under Grape.

STARCH
Starch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Starched; p. pr. & vb. n. Starching.]

Defn: To stiffen with starch.

STAR-CHAMBER
Star"-cham`ber, n. Etym: [So called (as conjectured by Blackstone)
from being held in a room at the Exchequer where the chests
containing certain Jewish comtracts and obligations called starrs
(from the Heb. shetar, pron. shtar) were kept; or from the stars with
which the ceiling is supposed to have been decorated.] (Eng. Hist.)

Defn: An ancient high court exercising jurisdiction in certain cases,
mainly criminal, which sat without the intervention of a jury. It
consisted of the king's council, or of the privy council only with
the addition of certain judges. It could proceed on mere rumor or
examine witnesses; it could apply torture. It was abolished by the
Long Parliament in 1641. Encyc. Brit.

STARCHED
Starched, a.

1. Stiffened with starch.

2. Stiff; precise; formal. Swift.

STARCHEDNESS
Starch"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being starched; stiffness in manners;
formality.

STARCHER
Starch"er, n.

Defn: One who starches.

STARCHLY
Starch"ly, adv.

Defn: In a starched or starch manner.

STARCHNESS
Starch"ness, n.

Defn: Of or pertaining to starched or starch; stiffness of manner;
preciseness.

STARCHWORT
Starch"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The cuckoopint, the tubers of which yield a fine quality of
starch.

STARCHY
Starch"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of starch; resembling starch; stiff; precise.

STARCRAFT
Star"craft, n.

Defn: Astrology. [R.] Tennyson.

STAR-CROSSED
Star"-crossed`, a.

Defn: Not favored by the stars; ill-fated. [Poetic] Shak.
Such in my star-crossed destiny. Massinger.

STAR DRIFT
Star drift. (Astron.)

Defn: Similar and probably related motion of the stars of an
asterism, as distinguished from apparent change of place due to solar
motion.-- ## = star streaming --

STARE
Stare, n. Etym: [AS. st?r. See Starling.] (Zool.)

Defn: The starling. [Obs.]

STARE
Stare, v. i. [imp. & p. p. stared; p. pr. & vb. n. staring.] Etym:
[AS. starian; akin to LG. & D. staren, OHG. staren, G. starren, Icel.
stara; cf. Icel. stira, Dan. stirre, Sw. stirra, and G. starr stiff,
rigid, fixed, Gr. stereo-), Skr. sthira firm, strong. *166. Cf.
Sterile.]

1. To look with fixed eyes wide open, as through fear, wonder,
surprise, impudence, etc.; to fasten an earnest and prolonged gaze on
some object.
For ever upon the ground I see thee stare. Chaucer.
Look not big, nor stamp, nor stare, nor fret. Shak.

2. To be very conspicuous on account of size, prominence, color, or
brilliancy; as, staring windows or colors.

3. To stand out; to project; to bristle. [Obs.]
Makest my blood cold, and my hair to stare. Shak.
Take off all the staring straws and jags in the hive. Mortimer.

Syn.
 -- To gaze; to look earnestly. See Gaze.

STARE
Stare, v. t.

Defn: To look earnestly at; to gaze at.
I will stare him out of his wits. Shak.
To stare in the face, to be before the eyes, or to be undeniably
evident. "The law . . . stares them in the face whilst they are
breaking it." Locke.

STARE
Stare, n.

Defn: The act of staring; a fixed look with eyes wide open. "A dull
and stupid stare." Churchill.

STARER
Star"er, n.

Defn: One who stares, or gazes.

STARF
Starf, obs. imp. of Starve.

Defn: Starved. Chaucer.

STARFINCH
Star"finch`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The European redstart.

STARFISH
Star"fish, n.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of echinoderms belonging to the
class Asterioidea, in which the body is star-shaped and usually has
five rays, though the number of rays varies from five to forty or
more. The rays are often long, but are sometimes so short as to
appear only as angles to the disklike body. Called also sea star,
five-finger, and stellerid.

Note: The ophiuroids are also sometimes called starfishes. See
Brittle star, and Ophiuroidea.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The dollar fish, or butterfish.

STARGASER
Star"gas`er, n.

1. One who gazes at the stars; an astrologer; sometimes, in derision
or contempt, an astronomer.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of spiny-rayed marine fishes
belonging to Uranoscopus, Astroscopus, and allied genera, of the
family Uranoscopid?. The common species of the Eastern United States
are Astroscopus anoplus, and A. guttatus. So called from the position
of the eyes, which look directly upward.

STARGASING
Star"gas`ing, n.

1. The act or practice of observing the stars with attention;
contemplation of the stars as connected with astrology or astronomy.
Swift.

2. Hence, absent-mindedness; abstraction.

STARINGLY
Star"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With a staring look.

STARK
Stark, a. [Compar. Starker; superl. Starkest.] Etym: [OE. stark
stiff, strong, AS. stearc; akin to OS. starc strong, D. sterk, OHG.
starc, starah, G. & Sw. stark, Dan. st?rk, Icel. sterkr, Goth.
gastaurknan to become dried up, Lith. stregti to stiffen, to freeze.
Cf. Starch, a. & n.]

1. Stiff; rigid. Chaucer.
Whose senses all were straight benumbed and stark. Spenser.
His heart gan wax as stark as marble stone. Spenser.
Many a nobleman lies stark and stiff Under the hoofs of vaunting
enemies. Shak.
The north is not so stark and cold. B. Jonson.

2. Complete; absolute; full; perfect; entire. [Obs.]
Consider the stark security The common wealth is in now. B. Jonson.

3. Strong; vigorous; powerful.
A stark, moss-trooping Scot. Sir W. Scott.
Stark beer, boy, stout and strong beer. Beau. & Fl.

4. Severe; violent; fierce. [Obs.] "In starke stours." [i. e., in
fierce combats]. Chaucer.

5. Mere; sheer; gross; entire; downright.
He pronounces the citation stark nonsense. Collier.
Rhetoric is very good or stark naught; there's no medium in rhetoric.
Selden.

STARK
Stark, adv.

Defn: Wholly; entirely; absolutely; quite; as, stark mind. Shak.
Held him strangled in his arms till he was stark dead. Fuller.
Stark naked, wholly naked; quite bare.
Strip your sword stark naked. Shak.

Note: According to Professor Skeat, "stark-naked" is derived from
steort-naked, or start-naked, literally tail-naked, and hence wholly
naked. If this etymology be true the preferable form is stark-naked.

STARK
Stark, v. t.

Defn: To stiffen. [R.]
If horror have not starked your limbs. H. Taylor.

STARKLY
Stark"ly, adv.

Defn: In a stark manner; stiffly; strongly.
Its onward force too starky pent In figure, bone, and lineament.
Emerson.

STARKNESS
Stark"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stark.

STARLESS
Star"less, a.

Defn: Being without stars; having no stars visible; as, a starless
night. Milton.

STARLIGHT
Star"light`, n.

Defn: The light given by the stars.
Nor walk by moon, Or glittering starlight, without thee is sweet.
Milton.

STARLIGHT
Star"light`, a.

Defn: Lighted by the stars, or by the stars only; as, a starlight
night.
A starlight evening and a morning fair. Dryden.

STARLIKE
Star"like`, a.

1. Resembling a star; stellated; radiated like a star; as, starlike
flowers.

2. Shining; bright; illustrious. Dryden.
The having turned many to righteousness shall confer a starlike and
immortal brightness. Boyle.

STARLING
Star"ling, n. Etym: [OE. sterlyng, a dim. of OE. stare, AS. st?r;
akin to AS. stearn, G. star, staar, OHG. stara, Icel. starri, stari,
Sw. stare, Dan. st?r, L. sturnus. Cf. Stare a starling.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any passerine bird belonging to Sturnus and allied genera. The
European starling (Sturnus vulgaris) is dark brown or greenish black,
with a metallic gloss, and spotted with yellowish white. It is a
sociable bird, and builds about houses, old towers, etc. Called also
stare, and starred. The pied starling of India is Sternopastor
contra.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A California fish; the rock trout.

3. A structure of piles driven round the piers of a bridge for
protection and support; -- called also sterling. Rose-colored
starling. (Zool.) See Pastor.

STARLIT
Star"lit`, a.

Defn: Lighted by the stars; starlight.

STARMONGER
Star"mon`ger, n.

Defn: A fortune teller; an astrologer; -- used in contempt. B.
Jonson.

STARN
Starn, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The European starling. [Prov. Eng.]

STARNOSE
Star"nose`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A curious American mole (Condylura cristata) having the nose
expanded at the end into a stellate disk; -- called also star-nosed
mole.

STAROST
Star"ost, n. Etym: [Pol. starosta, from stary old.]

Defn: A nobleman who possessed a starosty. [Poland]

STAROSTY
Star"os*ty, n.

Defn: A castle and domain conferred on a nobleman for life. [Poland]
Brande & C.

STARPROOF
Star"proof`, a.

Defn: Impervious to the light of the stars; as, a starproof elm.
[Poetic] Milton.

STAR-READ
Star"-read`, n.

Defn: Doctrine or knowledge of the stars; star lore; astrology;
astronomy. [Obs.]
Which in star-read were wont have best insight. Spenser.

STARRED
Starred, a. Etym: [From Star.]

1. Adorned or studded with stars; bespangled.

2. Influenced in fortune by the stars. [Obs.]
My third comfort, Starred most unluckily. Shak.

STARRINESS
Star"ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being starry; as, the starriness of the
heavens.

STARRY
Star"ry, a.

1. Abounding with stars; adorned with stars. "Above the starry sky."
Pope.

2. Consisting of, or proceeding from, the stars; stellar; stellary;
as, starry light; starry flame.
Do not Christians and Heathens, Jews and Gentiles, poets and
philosophers, unite in allowing the starry influence Sir W. Scott.

3. Shining like stars; sparkling; as, starry eyes.

4. Arranged in rays like those of a star; stellate. Starry ray
(Zool.), a European skate (Raita radiata); -- so called from the
stellate bases of the dorsal spines.

STARSHINE
Star"shine`, n.

Defn: The light of the stars. [R.]
The starshine lights upon our heads. R. L. Stevenson.

STARSHOOT
Star"shoot`, n.

Defn: See Nostoc.

STAR-SPANGLED
Star"-span`gled, a.

Defn: Spangled or studded with stars. Star-spangled banner, the
popular name for the national ensign of the United States. F. S. Key.

STAR STEREOGRAM
Star stereogram.

Defn: A view of the universe of brighter stars as it would appear to
an observer transported into space outside or beyond our universe of
stars.

STARSTONE
Star"stone`, n. (Min.)

Defn: Asteriated sapphire.

START
Start, v. i. [imp. & p. p. started; p. pr. & vb. n. starting.] Etym:
[OE. sterten; akin to D. storten 8hurl, rush, fall, G. sturzen, OHG.
sturzen to turn over, to fall, Sw. stora to cast down, to fall, Dan.
styrte, and probably also to E. start a tail; the original sense
being, perhaps, to show the tail, to tumble over suddenly. *166. Cf.
Start a tail.]

1. To leap; to jump. [Obs.]

2. To move suddenly, as with a spring or leap, from surprise, pain,
or other sudden feeling or emotion, or by a voluntary act.
And maketh him out of his sleep to start. Chaucer.
I start as from some dreadful dream. Dryden.
Keep your soul to the work when ready to start aside. I. Watts.
But if he start, It is the flesh of a corrupted heart. Shak.

3. To set out; to commence a course, as a race or journey; to begin;
as, to start business.
At once they start, advancing in a line. Dryden.
At intervals some bird from out the brakes Starts into voice a
moment, then is still. Byron.

4. To become somewhat displaced or loosened; as, a rivet or a seam
may start under strain or pressure. To start after, to set out after;
to follow; to pursue.
 -- To start against, to act as a rival candidate against.
 -- To start for, to be a candidate for, as an office.
 -- To start up, to rise suddenly, as from a seat or couch; to come
suddenly into notice or importance.

START
Start, v. t.

1. To cause to move suddenly; to disturb suddenly; to startle; to
alarm; to rouse; to cause to flee or fly; as, the hounds started a
fox.
Upon malicious bravery dost thou come To start my quiet Shak.
Brutus will start a spirit as soon as C?sar. Shak.

2. To bring onto being or into view; to originate; to invent.
Sensual men agree in the pursuit of every pleasure they can start.
Sir W. Temple.

3. To cause to move or act; to set going, running, or flowing; as, to
start a railway train; to start a mill; to start a stream of water;
to start a rumor; to start a business.
I was engaged in conversation upon a subject which the people love to
start in discourse. Addison.

4. To move suddenly from its place or position; to displace or
loosen; to dislocate; as, to start a bone; the storm started the
bolts in the vessel.
One, by a fall in wrestling, started the end of the clavicle from the
sternum. Wiseman.

5. Etym: [Perh. from D. storten, which has this meaning also.]
(Naut.)

Defn: To pour out; to empty; to tap and begin drawing from; as, to
start a water cask.

START
Start, n.

1. The act of starting; a sudden spring, leap, or motion, caused by
surprise, fear, pain, or the like; any sudden motion, or beginning of
motion.
The fright awakened Arcite with a start. Dryden.

2. A convulsive motion, twitch, or spasm; a spasmodic effort.
For she did speak in starts distractedly. Shak.
Nature does nothing by starts and leaps, or in a hurry. L'Estrange.

3. A sudden, unexpected movement; a sudden and capricious impulse; a
sally; as, starts of fancy.
To check the starts and sallies of the soul. Addison.

4. The beginning, as of a journey or a course of action; first motion
from a place; act of setting out; the outset; -- opposed to finish.
The start of first performance is all. Bacon.
I see you stand like greyhounds in the slips, Straining upon the
start. Shak.
At a start, at once; in an instant. [Obs.]
At a start he was betwixt them two. Chaucer.
To get, or have, the start, to before another; to gain or have the
advantage in a similar undertaking; -- usually with of. "Get the
start of the majestic world." Shak. "She might have forsaken him if
he had not got the start of her." Dryden.

START
Start, n. Etym: [OE. stert a tail, AS. steort; akin to LG. stert,
steert, D. staart, G. sterz, Icel. stertr, Dan. stiert, Sw. stjert.
*166. Cf. Stark naked, under Stark, Start, v. i.]

1. A tail, or anything projecting like a tail.

2. The handle, or tail, of a plow; also, any long handle. [Prov.
Eng.]

3. The curved or inclined front and bottom of a water-wheel bucket.

4. (Mining)

Defn: The arm, or level, of a gin, drawn around by a horse.

STARTER
Start"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, starts; as, a starter on a journey; the
starter of a race.

2. A dog that rouses game.

STARTFUL
Start"ful, a.

Defn: Apt to start; skittish. [R.]

STARTFULNESS
Start"ful*ness, n.

Defn: Aptness to start. [R.]

STARTHROAT
Star"throat`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any humming bird of the genus Heliomaster. The feathers of the
throat have a brilliant metallic luster.

STARTING
Start"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Start, v. Starting bar (Steam Eng.), a hand lever for
working the values in starting an engine.
 -- Starting hole, a loophole; evasion. [Obs.] -- Starting point, the
point from which motion begins, or from which anything starts.
 -- Starting post, a post, stake, barrier, or place from which
competitors in a race start, or begin the race.

STARTINGLY
Start"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By sudden fits or starts; spasmodically. Shak.

STARTISH
Start"ish, a.

Defn: Apt to start; skittish; shy; -- said especially of a horse.
[Colloq.]

STARTLE
Star"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Startled; p. pr. & vb. n. Startling.]
Etym: [Freq. of start.]

Defn: To move suddenly, or be excited, on feeling alarm; to start.
Why shrinks the soul Back on herself, and startles at destruction
Addison.

STARTLE
Star"tle, v. t.

1. To excite by sudden alarm, surprise, or apprehension; to frighten
suddenly and not seriously; to alarm; to surprise.
The supposition, at least, that angels do sometimes assume bodies
need not startle us. Locke.

2. To deter; to cause to deviate. [R.] Clarendon.

Syn.
 -- To start; shock; fright; frighten; alarm.

STARTLE
Star"tle, n.

Defn: A sudden motion or shock caused by an unexpected alarm,
surprise, or apprehension of danger.
After having recovered from my first startle, I was very well pleased
with the accident. Spectator.

STARTLINGLY
Star"tling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a startling manner.

STARTLISH
Star"tlish, a.

Defn: Easily startled; apt to start; startish; skittish; -- said
especially of a hourse. [Colloq.]

START-UP
Start"-up`, n.

1. One who comes suddenly into notice; an upstart. [Obs.] Shak.

2. A kind of high rustic shoe. [Obs.] Drayton.
A startuppe, or clownish shoe. Spenser.

START-UP
Start"-up`, a.

Defn: Upstart. [R.] Walpole.

STARVATION
Star*va"tion, n.

Defn: The act of starving, or the state of being starved.

Note: This word was first used, according to Horace Walpole, by Henry
Dundas, the first Lord Melville, in a speech on American affairs in
1775, which obtained for him the nickname of Starvation Dundas.
"Starvation, we are also told, belongs to the class of 'vile
compounds' from being a mongrel; as if English were not full of
mongrels, and if it would not be in distressing straits without
them." Fitzed. Hall.

STARVE
Starve, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Starved; p. pr. & vb. n. Starving.] Etym:
[OE. sterven to die, AS. steorfan; akin to D. sterven, G. sterben,
OHG. sterban, Icel. starf labor, toil.]

1. To die; to perish. [Obs., except in the sense of perishing with
cold or hunger.] Lydgate.
In hot coals he hath himself raked . . . Thus starved this worthy
mighty Hercules. Chaucer.

2. To perish with hunger; to suffer extreme hunger or want; to be
very indigent.
Sometimes virtue starves, while vice is fed. Pope.

3. To perish or die with cold. Spenser.
Have I seen the naked starve for cold Sandys.
Starving with cold as well as hunger. W. Irving.

Note: In this sense, still common in England, but rarely used of the
United States.

STARVE
Starve, v. t.

1. To destroy with cold. [Eng.]
From beds of raging fire, to starve in ice Their soft ethereal
warmth. Milton.

2. To kill with hunger; as, maliciously to starve a man is, in law,
murder.

3. To distress or subdue by famine; as, to starvea garrison into a
surrender.
Attalus endeavored to starve Italy by stopping their convoy of
provisions from Africa. Arbuthnot.

4. To destroy by want of any kind; as, to starve plans by depriving
them of proper light and air.

5. To deprive of force or vigor; to disable.
The pens of historians, writing thereof, seemed starved for matter in
an age so fruitful of memorable actions. Fuller.
The powers of their minds are starved by disuse. Locke.

STARVEDLY
Starv"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: In the condition of one starved or starving; parsimoniously.
Some boasting housekeeper which keepth open doors for one day, . . .
and lives starvedly all the year after. Bp. Hall.

STARVELING
Starve"ling, n. Etym: [Starve + -ling.]

Defn: One who, or that which, pines from lack or food, or nutriment.
Old Sir John hangs with me, and thou knowest he is no starveling.
Shak.

STARVELING
Starve"ling, a.

Defn: Hungry; lean; pining with want.

STARWORT
Star"wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) Any plant of the genus Aster. See Aster.
(b) A small plant of the genus Stellaria, having star-shaped flowers;
star flower; chickweed. Gray. Water starwort, an aquatic plant
(Callitriche verna) having some resemblance to chickweed.
 -- Yellow starwort, a plant of the genus Inula; elecampane.

STASIMON
Stas"i*mon, n.; pl. Stasmia. Etym: [NL., from Gr. sta`simon, neut. of
sta`simos stationary, steadfast.]

Defn: In the Greek tragedy, a song of the chorus, continued without
the interruption of dialogue or anap?stics. Liddell & Scott.

STASIS
Sta"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A slackening or arrest of the blood current in the vessels, due
not to a lessening of the heart's beat, but presumably to some
abnormal resistance of the capillary walls. It is one of the
phenomena observed in the capillaries in inflammation.

STATABLE
Stat"a*ble, a.

Defn: That can be stated; as, a statablegrievance; the question at
issue is statable.

STATAL
Sta"tal, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or existing with reference to, a State of
the American Union, as distinguished from the general government.
[R.]
I have no knowledge of any other kind of political citizenship,
higher or lower, statal or national. Edward Bates.

STATANT
Sta"tant, a. Etym: [L. stare to stand.] (Her.)

Defn: In a standing position; as, a lion statant.

STATARIAN
Sta*ta"ri*an, a.

Defn: Fixed; settled; steady; statary. [Obs.]

STATARIANLY
Sta*ta"ri*an*ly, adv.

Defn: Fixedly; steadly. [Obs.]

STATARY
Sta"ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. statarius standing fast, fr. stare to stand.]

Defn: Fixed; settled. [Obs.] "The set and statary times of paring of
nails and cutting hair." Sir T. Browne.

STATE
State, n. Etym: [OE. stat, OF. estat, F. etat, fr. L. status a
standing, position, fr. stare, statum, to stand. See Stand, and cf.
Estate, Status.]

1. The circumstances or condition of a being or thing at any given
time.
State is a term nearly synonymous with "mode," but of a meaning more
extensive, and is not exclusively limited to the mutable and
contingent. Sir W. Hamilton.
Declare the past and present state of things. Dryden.
Keep the state of the question in your eye. Boyle.

2. Rank; condition; quality; as, the state of honor.
Thy honor, state, and seat is due to me. Shak.

3. Condition of prosperity or grandeur; wealthy or prosperous
circumstances; social importance.
She instructed him how he should keep state, and yet with a modest
sense of his misfortunes. Bacon.
Can this imperious lord forget to reign, Quit all his state, descend,
and serve again Pope.

4. Appearance of grandeur or dignity; pomp.
Where least og state there most of love is shown. Dryden.

5. A chair with a canopy above it, often standing on a dais; a seat
of dignity; also, the canopy itself. [Obs.]
His high throne, . . . under state Of richest texture spread. Milton.
When he went to court, he used to kick away the state, and sit down
by his prince cheek by jowl. Swift.

6. Estate, possession. [Obs.] Daniel.
Your state, my lord, again in yours. Massinger.

7. A person of high rank. [Obs.] Latimer.

8. Any body of men united by profession, or constituting a community
of a particular character; as, the civil and ecclesiastical states,
or the lords spiritual and temporal and the commons, in Great
Britain. Cf. Estate, n., 6.

9. The principal persons in a government.
The bold design Pleased highly those infernal states. Milton.

10. The bodies that constitute the legislature of a country; as, the
States-general of Holland.

11. A form of government which is not monarchial, as a republic.
[Obs.]
Well monarchies may own religion's name, But states are atheists in
their very fame. Dryden.

12. A political body, or body politic; the whole body of people who
are united one government, whatever may be the form of the
government; a nation.
Municipal law is a rule of conduct prescribed by the supreme power in
a state. Blackstone.
The Puritans in the reign of Mary, driven from their homes, sought an
asylum in Geneva, where they found a state without a king, and a
church without a bishop. R. Choate.

13. In the United States, one of the commonwealth, or bodies politic,
the people of which make up the body of the nation, and which, under
the national constitution, stands in certain specified relations with
the national government, and are invested, as commonwealth, with full
power in their several spheres over all matters not expressly
inhibited.

Note: The term State, in its technical sense, is used in distinction
from the federal system, i. e., the government of the United States.

14. Highest and stationary condition, as that of maturity between
growth and decline, or as that of crisis between the increase and the
abating of a disease; height; acme. [Obs.]

Note: When state is joined with another word, or used adjectively, it
denotes public, or what belongs to the community or body politic, or
to the government; also, what belongs to the States severally in the
American Union; as, state affairs; state policy; State laws of Iowa.
Nascent state. (Chem.) See under Nascent.
 -- Secretary of state. See Secretary, n., 3.
 -- State bargea royal barge, or a barge belonging to a government.
 -- State bed, an elaborately carved or decorated bed.
 -- State carriage, a highly decorated carriage for officials going
in state, or taking part in public processions.
 -- State paper, an official paper relating to the interests or
government of a state. Jay.
 -- State prison, a public prison or penitentiary; -- called also
State's prison.
 -- State prisoner, one is confinement, or under arrest, for a
political offense.
 -- State rights, or States' rights, the rights of the several
independent States, as distinguished from the rights of the Federal
government. It has been a question as to what rights have been vested
in the general government. [U.S.] -- State's evidence. See Probator,
2, and under Evidence.
 -- State sword, a sword used on state occasions, being borne before
a sovereign by an attendant of high rank.
 -- State trial, a trial of a person for a political offense.
 -- States of the Church. See under Ecclesiastical.

Syn.
 -- State, Situation, Condition. State is the generic term, and
denotes in general the mode in which a thing stands or exists. The
situation of a thing is its state in reference to external objects
and influences; its condition is its internal state, or what it is in
itself considered. Our situation is good or bad as outward things
bear favorably or unfavorably upon us; our condition is good or bad
according to the state we are actually in as respects our persons,
families, property, and other things which comprise our sources of
enjoyment.
I do not, brother, Infer as if I thought my sister's state Secure
without all doubt or controversy. Milton.
We hoped to enjoy with ease what, in our situation, might be called
the luxuries of life. Cock.
And, O, what man's condition can be worse Than his whom plenty
starves and blessings curse Cowley.

STATE
State, a.

1. Stately. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. Belonging to the state, or body politic; public.

STATE
State, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stated; p. pr. & vb. n. Stating.]

1. To set; to settle; to establish. [R.]
I myself, though meanest stated, And in court now almost hated.
Wither.
Who calls the council, states the certain day. Pope.

2. To express the particulars of; to set down in detail or in gross;
to represent fully in words; to narrate; to recite; as, to state the
facts of a case, one's opinion, etc. To state it. To assume state or
dignity. [Obs.] "Rarely dressed up, and taught to state it." Beau. &
Fl.

STATE
State, n.

Defn: A statement; also, a document containing a statement. [R.] Sir
W. Scott.

STATECRAFT
State"craft`, n.

Defn: The art of conducting state affairs; state management;
statesmanship.

STATED
Stat"ed, a.

1. Settled; established; fixed.
He is capable of corruption who receives more than what is the stated
and unquestionable fee of his office. Addison.

2. Recurring at regular time; not occasional; as, stated preaching;
stated business hours.

STATEDLY
Stat"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: At stated times; regularly.

STATEFUL
State"ful, a.

Defn: Full of state; stately. [Obs.] "A stateful silence." Marston.

STATEHOOD
State"hood, n.

Defn: The condition of being a State; as, a territory seeking
Statehood.

STATEHOUSE
State"house`, n.

Defn: The building in which a State legislature holds its sessions; a
State capitol. [U. S.]

STATELESS
State"less, a.

Defn: Without state or pomp.

STATELILY
State"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stately manner.

STATELINESS
State"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stately.
For stateliness and majesty, what is comparable to a horse Dr. H.
More.

STATELY
State"ly, a. [Compar. Statelier; superl. Stateliest.]

Defn: Evincing state or dignity; lofty; majestic; grand; as,
statelymanners; a stately gait. "The stately homes of England!" Mrs.
Hemans. "Filled with stately temples." Prescott.
Here is a stately style indeed! Shak.

Syn.
 -- Lofty; dignified; majestic; grand; august; magnificent.

STATELY
State"ly, adv.

Defn: Majestically; loftily. Milton.

STATEMENT
State"ment, n.

1. The act of stating, reciting, or presenting, orally or in paper;
as, to interrupt a speaker in the statement of his case.

2. That which is stated; a formal embodiment in language of facts or
opinions; a narrative; a recital. "Admirable perspicuity of
statement!" Brougham.

STATEMONGER
State"mon`ger, n.

Defn: One versed in politics, or one who dabbles in state affairs.

STATEPRISON
State`pris"on.

Defn: See under State, n.

STATER
Stat"er, n.

Defn: One who states.

STATER
Sta"ter, n. Etym: [L. stater, Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: The principal gold coin of ancient Grece. It varied much in
value, the stater best known at Athens being worth about ?1 2s., or
about $5.35. The Attic silver tetradrachm was in later times called
stater.

STATEROOM
State"room`, n.

1. A magnificent room in a place or great house.

2. A small apartment for lodging or sleeping in the cabin, or on the
deck, of a vessel; also, a somewhat similar apartment in a railway
sleeping car.

STATES-GENERAL
States"-gen"er*al, n.

1. In France, before the Revolution, the assembly of the three orders
of the kingdom, namely, the clergy, the nobility, and the third
estate, or commonalty.

2. In the Netherlands, the legislative body, composed of two
chambers.

STATESMAN
States"man, n.; pl. Statesmen (.

1. A man versed in public affairs and in the principles and art of
government; especially, one eminent for political abilities.
The minds of some of our statesmen, like the pupil of the human eye,
contract themselves the more, the stronger light there is shed upon
them. More.

2. One occupied with the affairs of government, and influental in
shaping its policy.

3. A small landholder. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STATESMANLIKE
States"man*like`, a.

Defn: Having the manner or wisdom of statesmen; becoming a statesman.

STATESMANLY
States"man*ly, a.

Defn: Becoming a statesman.

STATESMANSHIP
States"man*ship, n.

Defn: The qualifications, duties, or employments of a statesman.

STATE SOCIALISM
State socialism.

Defn: A form of socialism, esp. advocated in Germany, which, while
retaining the right of private property and the institution of the
family and other features of the present form of the state, would
intervene by various measures intended to give or maintain equality
of opportunity, as compulsory state insurance, old-age pensions,
etc., answering closely to socialism of the chair.

STATESWOMAN
States"wom`an, n.; pl. Stateswomen (.

Defn: A woman concerned in public affairs.
A rare stateswoman; I admire her bearing. B. Jonson.

STATHMOGRAPH
Stath"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.]

Defn: A contrivance for recording the speed of a railway train.
Knight.

STATIC; STATICAL
Stat"ic, Stat"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. statique. See Stand, and cf.
Stage.]

1. Resting; acting by mere weight without motion; as, statical
pressure; static objects.

2. Pertaining to bodies at rest or in equilibrium. Statical
electricity. See Note under Electricity, 1.
 -- Statical moment. See under Moment.

STATICALLY
Stat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a statical manner.

STATICS
Stat"ics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. statique, Gr. Static.]

Defn: That branch of mechanics which treats of the equilibrium of
forces, or relates to bodies as held at rest by the forces acting on
them; -- distinguished from dynamics. Social statics, the study of
the conditions which concern the existence and permanence of the
social state.

STATING
Stat"ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who states anything; statement; as, the
statingof one's opinions.

STATION
Sta"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. statio, from stare, statum, to stand.
See Stand.]

1. The act of standing; also, attitude or pose in standing; posture.
[R.]
A station like the herald, Mercury. Shak.
Their manner was to stand at prayer, whereupon their meetings unto
that purpose . . . had the names of stations given them. Hooker.

2. A state of standing or rest; equilibrium. [Obs.]
All progression is performed by drawing on or impelling forward some
part which was before in station, or at quiet. Sir T. Browne.

3. The spot or place where anything stands, especially where a person
or thing habitually stands, or is appointed to remain for a time; as,
the station of a sentinel. Specifically:
(a) A regular stopping place in a stage road or route; a place where
railroad trains regularly come to a stand, for the convenience of
passengers, taking in fuel, moving freight, etc.
(b) The headquarters of the police force of any precinct.
(c) The place at which an instrument is planted, or observations are
made, as in surveying. (d) (Biol.)

Defn: The particular place, or kind of situation, in which a species
naturally occurs; a habitat. (e) (Naut.)

Defn: A place to which ships may resort, and where they may anchor
safely.
(f) A place or region to which a government ship or fleet is assigned
for duty.
(g) (Mil.) A place calculated for the rendezvous of troops, or for
the distribution of them; also, a spot well adapted for offensive
measures. Wilhelm (Mil. Dict.).
(h) (Mining) An enlargement in a shaft or galley, used as a landing,
or passing place, or for the accomodation of a pump, tank, etc.

4. Post assigned; office; the part or department of public duty which
a person is appointed to perform; sphere of duty or occupation;
employment.
By spending this day [Sunday] in religious exercises, we acquire new
strength and resolution to perform God's will in our several stations
the week following. R. Nelson.

5. Situation; position; location.
The fig and date -- why love they to remain In middle station, and an
even plain Prior.

6. State; rank; condition of life; social status.
The greater part have kept, I see, Their station. Milton.
They in France of the best rank and station. Shak.

7. (Eccl.)
(a) The fast of the fourth and sixth days of the week, Wednesday and
Friday, in memory of the council which condemned Christ, and of his
passion.
(b) (R. C. Ch.) A church in which the procession of the clergy halts
on stated days to say stated prayers. Addis & Arnold.
(c) One of the places at which ecclesiastical processions pause for
the performance of an act of devotion; formerly, the tomb of a
martyr, or some similarly consecrated spot; now, especially, one of
those representations of the successive stages of our Lord's passion
which are often placed round the naves of large churches and by the
side of the way leading to sacred edifices or shrines, and which are
visited in rotation, stated services being performed at each; --
called also Station of the cross. Fairholt. Station bill. (Naut.)
Same as Quarter bill, under Quarter.
 -- Station house. (a) The house serving for the headquarters of the
police assigned to a certain district, and as a place of temporary
confinement. (b) The house used as a shelter at a railway station.
 -- Station master, one who has charge of a station, esp. of a
railway station.
 -- Station pointer (Surv.), an instrument for locating on a chart
the position of a place from which the angles subtended by three
distant objects, whose positions are known, have been observed.
 -- Station staff (Surv.), an instrument for taking angles in
surveying. Craig.

Syn.
 -- Station, Depot. In the United States, a stopping place on a
railway for passengers and freight is commonly called a depot: but to
a considerable extent in official use, and in common speech, the more
appropriate name, station, has been adopted.

STATION
Sta"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stationed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stationing.]

Defn: To place; to set; to appoint or assign to the occupation of a
post, place, or office; as, to station troops on the right of an
army; to station a sentinel on a rampart; to station ships on the
coasts of Africa.
He gained the brow of the hill, where the English phalanx was
stationed. Lyttelton.

STATIONAL
Sta"tion*al, a. Etym: [L. stationalis: cf. F. stationnale (eglise).]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a station. [R.]

STATIONARINESS
Sta"tion*a*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stationary; fixity.

STATIONARY
Sta"tion*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. stationarius: cf. F. stationnaire. Cf.
Stationer.]

1. Not moving; not appearing to move; stable; fixed.
Charles Wesley, who is a more stationary man, does not believe the
story. Southey.

2. Not improving or getting worse; not growing wiser, greater,
better, more excellent, or the contrary.

3. Appearing to be at rest, because moving in the line of vision; not
progressive or retrograde, as a planet. Stationary air (Physiol.),
the air which under ordinary circumstances does not leave the lungs
in respiration.
 -- Stationary engine. (a) A steam engine thet is permanently placed,
in distinction from a portable engine, locomotive, marine engine,
etc. Specifically: (b) A factory engine, in distinction from a
blowing, pumping, or other kind of engine which is also permanently
placed.

STATIONARY
Sta"tion*a*ry, n.; pl. -ries (.

Defn: One who, or that which, is stationary, as a planet when
apparently it has neither progressive nor retrograde motion. Holland.

STATIONER
Sta"tion*er, n. Etym: [Cf. Stationary, a.]

1. A bookseller or publisher; -- formerly so called from his
occupying a stand, or station, in the market place or elsewhere.
[Obs.] Dryden.

2. One who sells paper, pens, quills, inkstands, pencils, blank
books, and other articles used in writing.

STATIONERY
Sta"tion*er*y, n.

Defn: The articles usually sold by stationers, as paper, pens, ink,
quills, blank books, etc.

STATIONERY
Sta"tion*er*y, a.

Defn: Belonging to, or sold by, a stationer.

STATISM
Sta"tism, n. Etym: [From State.]

Defn: The art of governing a state; statecraft; policy. [Obs.]
The enemies of God . . . call our religion statism. South.

STATIST
Sta"tist, n. Etym: [From State.]

1. A statesman; a politician; one skilled in government. [Obs.]
Statists indeed, And lovers of their country. Milton.

2. A statistician. Fawcett.

STATISTIC; STATISTICAL
Sta*tis"tic, Sta*tis"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. statistique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to statistics; as, statistical knowledge,
statistical tabulation.

STATISTICALLY
Sta*tis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the way of statistics.

STATISTICIAN
Stat`is*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. statisticien.]

Defn: One versed in statistics; one who collects and classifies facts
for statistics.

STATISTICS
Sta*tis"tics, n. Etym: [Cf. F. statistique, G. statistik. See State,
n.]

1. The science which has to do with the collection and classification
of certain facts respecting the condition of the people in a state.

Note: [In this sense gramatically singular.]

2. pl.

Defn: Classified facts respecting the condition of the people in a
state, their health, their longevity, domestic economy, arts,
property, and political strength, their resources, the state of the
country, etc., or respecting any particular class or interest;
especially, those facts which can be stated in numbers, or in tables
of numbers, or in any tabular and classified arrangement.

Defn: The branch of mathematics which studies methods for the
calculation of probabilities.

STATISTOLOGY
Stat`is*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Statistics + -logy.]

Defn: See Statistics, 2.

STATIVE
Sta"tive, a. Etym: [L. stativus, fr. stare, statum, to stand.] (Mil.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a fixed camp, or military posts or
quarters. [Obs. or R.]

STATOBLAST
Stat"o*blast, n. Etym: [Gr. i.e., remaining) + -blast.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of a peculiar kind of internal buds, or germs, produced in
the interior of certain Bryozoa and sponges, especially in the fresh-
water species; -- also called winter buds.

Note: They are protected by a firm covering, and are usually destined
to perpetuate the species during the winter season. They burst open
and develop in the spring. In some fresh-water sponges they serve to
preserve the species during the dry season. See Illust. under
Phylactol?mata.

STATOCRACY
Sta*toc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [State + -cracy, as in democracy.]

Defn: Government by the state, or by political power, in distinction
from government by ecclesiastical power. [R.] O. A. Brownson.

STATOR
Sta"tor, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A stationary part in or about which another part (the rotor)
revolves, esp. when both are large; as,
 (a) (Elec.) The stationary member of an electrical machine, as of an
induction motor.
 (b) (Steam Turbine) The case inclosing a turbine wheel; the body of
stationary blades or nozzles.

STATUA
Stat"u*a, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A statue. [Obs.]
They spake not a word; But, like dumb statuas or breathing stones,
Gazed each on other. Shak.

STATUARY
Stat"u*a*ry, n.; pl. Statuaries. Etym: [L. statuarius, n., fr.
statuarius, a., of or belonging to statues, fr. statua statue: cf. F.
statuaire. See Statue.]

1. One who practices the art of making statues.
On other occasions the statuaries took their subjects from the poets.
Addison.

2. Etym: [L. statuaria (sc. ars): cf. F. statuaire.]

Defn: The art of carving statues or images as representatives of real
persons or things; a branch of sculpture. Sir W. Temple.

3. A collection of statues; statues, collectively.

STATUE
Stat"ue, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. statua (akin to stativus standing
still), fr. stare, statum, to stand. See Stand.]

1. The likeness of a living being sculptured or modeled in some solid
substance, as marble, bronze, or wax; an image; as, a statue of
Hercules, or of a lion.
I will raise her statue in pure gold. Shak.

2. A portrait. [Obs.] Massinger.

STATUE
Stat"ue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Statued; p. pr. & vb. n. Statuing.]

Defn: To place, as a statue; to form a statue of; to make into a
statue. "The whole man becomes as if statued into stone and earth."
Feltham.

STATUED
Stat"ued, a.

Defn: Adorned with statues. "The statued hall." Longfellow. "Statued
niches." G. Eliot.

STATUELESS
Stat"ue*less, a.

Defn: Without a statue.

STATUELIKE
Stat"ue*like`, a.

Defn: Like a statue; motionless.

STATUESQUE
Stat`u*esque", a.

Defn: Partaking of, or exemplifying, the characteristics of a statue;
having the symmetry, or other excellence, of a statue artistically
made; as, statuesquelimbs; a statuesque attitude.
Their characters are mostly statuesque even in this respect, that
they have no background. Hare.

STATUESQUELY
Stat`u*esque"ly, adv.

Defn: In a statuesque manner; in a way suggestive of a statue; like a
statue.
A character statuesquely simple in its details. Lowell.

STATUETTE
Stat`u*ette", n. Etym: [F., cf. It. statuetta.]

Defn: A small statue; -- usually applied to a figure much less than
life size, especially when of marble or bronze, or of plaster or clay
as a preparation for the marble or bronze, as distinguished from a
figure in terra cotta or the like. Cf. Figurine.

STATUMINATE
Sta*tu"mi*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. statuminatus, p.p. of statuminare to
prop, fr. statumen a prop, fr. statuere to place.]

Defn: To prop or support. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

STATURE
Stat"ure, n. Etym: [F. stature, OF. estature, from L. statura,
originally, an upright posture, hence, height or size of the body,
from stare, statum, to stand. See Stand.]

Defn: The natural height of an animal body; -- generally used of the
human body.
Foreign men of mighty stature came. Dryden.

STATURED
Stat"ured, a.

Defn: Arrived at full stature. [R.]

STATUS
Sta"tus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: State; condition; position of affairs.

STATUS IN QUO; STATUS QUO
Sta"tus in` quo", Sta"tus quo". Etym: [L., state in which.]

Defn: The state in which anything is already. The phrase is also used
retrospectively, as when, on a treaty of place, matters return to the
status quo ante bellum, or are left in statu quo ante bellum, i.e.,
the state (or, in the state) before the war.

STATUTABLE
Stat"u*ta*ble, a.

1. Made or introduced by statute; proceeding from an act of the
legistature; as, a statutable provision or remedy.

2. Made or being in conformity to statute; standard; as, statutable
measures.

STATUTABLY
Stat"u*ta*bly, adv.

Defn: Conformably to statute.

STATUTE
Stat"ute, n. Etym: [F. statut, LL. statutum, from L. statutus, p.p.
of statuere to set, station, ordain, fr. status position, station,
fr. stare, statum, to stand. See Stand, and cf. Constitute,
Destitute.]

1. An act of the legislature of a state or country, declaring,
commanding, or prohibiting something; a positive law; the written
will of the legislature expressed with all the requisite forms of
legislation; -- used in distinction fraom common law. See Common law,
under Common, a. Bouvier.

Note: Statute is commonly applied to the acts of a legislative body
consisting of representatives. In monarchies, legislature laws of the
sovereign are called edicts, decrees, ordinances, rescripts, etc. In
works on international law and in the Roman law, the term is used as
embracing all laws imposed by competent authority. Statutes in this
sense are divided into statutes real, statutes personal, and statutes
mixed; statutes real applying to immovables; statutes personal to
movables; and statutes mixed to both classes of property.

2. An act of a corporation or of its founder, intended as a permanent
rule or law; as, the statutes of a university.

3. An assemblage of farming servants (held possibly by statute) for
the purpose of being hired; -- called also statute fair. [Eng.] Cf.
3d Mop, 2. Halliwell. Statute book, a record of laws or legislative
acts. Blackstone.
 -- Statute cap, a kind of woolen cap; -- so called because enjoined
to be worn by a statute, dated in 1571, in behalf of the trade of
cappers. [Obs.] Halliwell.
 -- Statute fair. See Statute, n., 3, above.
 -- Statute labor, a definite amount of labor required for the public
service in making roads, bridges, etc., as in certain English
colonies.
 -- Statute merchant (Eng. Law), a bond of record pursuant to the
stat. 13 Edw. I., acknowledged in form prescribed, on which, if not
paid at the day, an execution might be awarded against the body,
lands, and goods of the debtor, and the obligee might hold the lands
until out of the rents and profits of them the debt was satisfied; --
called also a pocket judgment. It is now fallen into disuse. Tomlins.
Bouvier.
 -- Statute mile. See under Mile.
 -- Statute of limitations (Law), a statute assigned a certain time,
after which rights can not be enforced by action.
 -- Statute staple, a bond of record acknowledged before the mayor of
the staple, by virtue of which the creditor may, on nonpayment,
forthwith have execution against the body, lands, and goods of the
debtor, as in the statute merchant. It is now disused. Blackstone.

Syn.
 -- Act; regulation; edict; decree. See Law.

STATUTORY
Stat"u*to*ry, a.

Defn: Enacted by statute; depending on statute for its authority; as,
a statutory provision.

STAUNCH; STAUNCHLY; STAUNCHNESS
Staunch, Staunch"ly, Staunch"ness, etc.

Defn: See Stanch, Stanchly, etc.

STAUROLITE
Stau"ro*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a brown to black color occurring in prismatic
crystals, often twinned so as to form groups resembling a cross. It
is a silicate of aluminia and iron, and is generally found imbedded
in mica schist. Called also granatite, and grenatite.

STAUROLITIC
Stau`ro*lit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to staurolite; resembling or containing
staurolite.

STAUROSCOPE
Stau"ro*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: An optical instrument used in determining the position of the
planes of light-vibration in sections of crystals.

STAUROTIDE
Stau"ro*tide, n. Etym: [F. staurotide, from Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Staurolite.

STAVE
Stave, n. Etym: [From Staff, and corresponding to the pl. staves. See
Staff.]

1. One of a number of narrow strips of wood, or narrow iron plates,
placed edge to edge to form the sides, covering, or lining of a
vessel or structure; esp., one of the strips which form the sides of
a cask, a pail, etc.

2. One of the cylindrical bars of a lantern wheel; one of the bars or
rounds of a rack, a ladder, etc.

3. A metrical portion; a stanza; a staff.
Let us chant a passing stave In honor of that hero brave. Wordsworth.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: The five horizontal and parallel lines on and between which
musical notes are written or pointed; the staff. [Obs.] Stave
jointer, a machine for dressing the edges of staves.

STAVE
Stave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Staved or Stove (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Staving.] Etym: [From Stave, n., or Staff, n.]

1. To break in a stave or the staves of; to break a hole in; to
burst; -- often with in; as, to stave a cask; to stave in a boat.

2. To push, as with a staff; -- with off.
The condition of a servant staves him off to a distance. South.

3. To delay by force or craft; to drive away; -- usually with off;
as, to stave off the execution of a project.
And answered with such craft as women use, Guilty or guilties, to
stave off a chance That breaks upon them perilously. Tennyson.

4. To suffer, or cause, to be lost by breaking the cask.
All the wine in the city has been staved. Sandys.

5. To furnish with staves or rundles. Knolles.

6. To render impervious or solid by driving with a calking iron; as,
to stave lead, or the joints of pipes into which lead has been run.
To stave and tail, in bear baiting, (to stave) to interpose with the
staff, doubtless to stop the bear; (to tail) to hold back the dog by
the tail. Nares.

STAVE
Stave, v. i.

Defn: To burst in pieces by striking against something; to dash into
fragments.
Like a vessel of glass she stove and sank. Longfellow.

STAVES
Staves, n.;

Defn: pl. of Staff. "Banners, scarves and staves." R. Browning. Also
(stavz),

Defn: pl. of Stave.

STAVESACRE
Staves"a`cre, n. Etym: [Corrupted from NL. staphis agria, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of larkspur (Delphinium Staphysagria), and its seeds,
which are violently purgative and emetic. They are used as a
parasiticide, and in the East for poisoning fish.

STAVEWOOD
Stave`wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tall tree (Simaruba amara) growing in tropical America. It is
one of the trees which yields quassia.

STAVING
Stav"ing, n.

Defn: A cassing or lining of staves; especially, one encircling a
water wheel.

STAW
Staw, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Dan. staae to stand, Sw. sta. *163.]

Defn: To be fixed or set; to stay. [Prov. Eng.]

STAY
Stay, n. Etym: [AS. st?g, akin to D., G., Icel., Sw., & Dan. stag;
cf. OF. estai, F. etai, of Teutonic origin.] (Naut.)

Defn: A large, strong rope, employed to support a mast, by being
extended from the head of one mast down to some other, or to some
part of the vessel. Those which lead forward are called fore-and-aft
stays; those which lead to the vessel's side are called backstays.
See Illust. of Ship. In stays, or Hove in stays (Naut.), in the act
or situation of staying, or going about from one tack to another. R.
H. Dana, Jr.
 -- Stay holes (Naut.), openings in the edge of a staysail through
which the hanks pass which join it to the stay.
 -- Stay tackle (Naut.), a tackle attached to a stay and used for
hoisting or lowering heavy articles over the side.
 -- To miss stays (Naut.), to fail in the attempt to go about.
Totten.
 -- Triatic stay (Naut.), a rope secured at the ends to the heads of
the foremast and mainmast with thimbles spliced to its bight into
which the stay tackles hook.

STAY
Stay, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stayed or Staid (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Staying.] Etym: [OF. estayer, F. etayer to prop, fr. OF. estai, F.
etai, a prop, probably fr. OD. stade, staeye, a prop, akin to E.
stead; or cf. stay a rope to support a mast. Cf. Staid, a., Stay, v.
i.]

1. To stop from motion or falling; to prop; to fix firmly; to hold
up; to support.
Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the
other on the other side. Ex. xvii. 12.
Sallows and reeds . . . for vineyards useful found To stay thy vines.
Dryden.

2. To support from sinking; to sustain with strength; to satisfy in
part or for the time.
He has devoured a whole loaf of bread and butter, and it has not
staid his stomach for a minute. Sir W. Scott.

3. To bear up under; to endure; to support; to resist successfully.
She will not stay the siege of loving terms, Nor bide the encounter
of assailing eyes. Shak.

4. To hold from proceeding; to withhold; to restrain; to stop; to
hold.
Him backward overthrew and down him stayed With their rude hands
grisly grapplement. Spenser.
All that may stay their minds from thinking that true which they
heartly wish were false. Hooker.

5. To hinde
Your ships are stayed at Venice. Shak.
This business staid me in London almost a week. Evelyn.
I was willing to stay my reader on an argument that appeared to me
new. Locke.

6. To remain for the purpose of; to wait for. "I stay dinner there."
Shak.

7. To cause to cease; to put an end to.
Stay your strife. Shak.
For flattering planets seemed to say This child should ills of ages
stay. Emerson.

8. (Engin.)

Defn: To fasten or secure with stays; as, to stay a flat sheet in a
steam boiler.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: To tack, as a vessel, so that the other side of the vessel
shall be presented to the wind. To stay a mast (Naut.), to incline it
forward or aft, or to one side, by the stays and backstays.

STAY
Stay, v. i. Etym: [*163. See Stay to hold up, prop.]

1. To remain; to continue in a place; to abide fixed for a space of
time; to stop; to stand still.
She would command the hasty sun to stay. Spenser.
Stay, I command you; stay and hear me first. Dryden.
I stay a little longer, as one stays To cover up the embers that
still burn. Longfellow.

2. To continue in a state.
The flames augment, and stay At their full height, then languish to
decay. Dryden.

3. To wait; to attend; to forbear to act.
I'll tell thee all my whole device When I am in my coach, which stays
for us. Shak.
The father can not stay any longer for the fortune. Locke.

4. To dwell; to tarry; to linger.
I must stay a little on one action. Dryden.

5. To rest; to depend; to rely; to stand; to insist.
I stay here on my bond. Shak.
Ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and
stay thereon. Isa. xxx. 12.

6. To come to an end; to cease; as, that day the storm stayed.
[Archaic]
Here my commission stays. Shak.

7. To hold out in a race or other contest; as, a horse stays well.
[Colloq.]

8. (Naut.)

Defn: To change tack; as a ship.

STAY
Stay, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. estai, F. etai support, and E. stay a rope to
support a mast.]

1. That which serves as a prop; a support. "My only strength and
stay." Milton.
Trees serve as so many stays for their vines. Addison.
Lord Liverpool is the single stay of this ministry. Coleridge.

2. pl.

Defn: A corset stiffened with whalebone or other material, worn by
women, and rarely by men.
How the strait stays the slender waist constrain. Gay.

3. Continuance in a place; abode for a space of time; sojourn; as,
you make a short stay in this city.
Make haste, and leave thy business and thy care; No mortal interest
can be worth thy stay. Dryden.
Embrace the hero and his stay implore. Waller.

4. Cessation of motion or progression; stand; stop.
Made of sphere metal, never to decay Until his revolution was at
stay. Milton.
Affairs of state seemed rather to stand at a stay. Hayward.

5. Hindrance; let; check. [Obs.]
They were able to read good authors without any stay, if the book
were not false. Robynson (more's Utopia).

6. Restraint of passion; moderation; caution; steadiness; sobriety.
[Obs.] "Not grudging that thy lust hath bounds and stays." Herbert.
The wisdom, stay, and moderation of the king. Bacon.
With prudent stay he long deferred The rough contention. Philips.

7. (Engin.)

Defn: Strictly, a part in tension to hold the parts together, or
stiffen them. Stay bolt (Mech.), a bolt or short rod, connecting
opposite plates, so as to prevent them from being bulged out when
acted upon by a pressure which tends to force them apart, as in the
leg of a steam boiler.
 -- Stay busk, a stiff piece of wood, steel, or whalebone, for the
front support of a woman's stays. Cf. Busk.
 -- Stay rod, a rod which acts as a stay, particularly in a steam
boiler.

STAYED
Stayed, a.

Defn: Staid; fixed; settled; sober; -- now written staid. See Staid.
Bacon. Pope.

STAYEDLY
Stayed"ly, adv.

Defn: Staidly. See Staidly. [R.]

STAYEDNESS
Stayed"ness, n.

1. Staidness. [Archaic] W. Whately.

2. Solidity; weight. [R.] Camden.

STAYER
Stay"er, n.

Defn: One who upholds or supports that which props; one who, or that
which, stays, stops, or restrains; also, colloquially, a horse, man,
etc., that has endurance, an a race.

STAYLACE
Stay"lace`, n.

Defn: A lace for fastening stays.

STAYLESS
Stay"less, a.

Defn: Without stop or delay. Mir. for Mag.

STAYMAKER
Stay"mak`er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make stays.

STAYNIL
Stay"nil, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The European starling. [Prov. Eng.]

STAYSAIL
Stay"sail`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: Any sail extended on a stay.

STAYSHIP
Stay"ship`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A remora, -- fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to them.

STEAD
Stead, n. Etym: [OE. stede place, AS. stede; akin to LG. & D. stede,
OS. stad, stedi, OHG. stat, G. statt, statte, Icel. staedhr, Dan.
sted, Sw. stad, Goth. sta, and E. stand. *163. See Stand, and cf.
Staith, Stithy.]

1. Place, or spot, in general. [Obs., except in composition.]
Chaucer.
Fly, therefore, fly this fearful stead anon. Spenser.

2. Place or room which another had, has, or might have. "Stewards of
your steads." Piers Plowman.
In stead of bounds, he a pillar set. Chaucer.

3. A frame on which a bed is laid; a bedstead. [R.]
The genial bed, Sallow the feet, the borders, and the stead. Dryden.

4. A farmhouse and offices. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

Note: The word is now commonly used as the last part of a compound;
as, farmstead, homestead, readstead, etc. In stead of, in place of.
See Instead.
 -- To stand in stead, or To do stead, to be of use or great
advantage.
The smallest act . . . shall stand us in great stead. Atterbury.
Here thy sword can do thee little stead. Milton.

STEAD
Stead, v. t.

1. To help; to support; to benefit; to assist.
Perhaps my succour or advisement meet, Mote stead you much your
purpose to subdue. Spenser.
It nothing steads us To chide him from our eaves. Shak.

2. To fill place of. [Obs.] Shak.

STEADFAST
Stead"fast, a. Etym: [Stead + fast, that is, fast in place.] Etym:
[Written also stedfast.]

1. Firmly fixed or established; fast fixed; firm. "This steadfast
globe of earth." Spenser.

2. Not fickle or wavering; constant; firm; resolute; unswerving;
steady. "Steadfast eye." Shak.
Abide steadfast unto him [thy neighbor] in the time of his trouble.
Ecclus. xxii. 23.
Whom resist steadfast in the faith. 1 Pet. v. 9.

STEADFASTLY
Stead"fast*ly, adv.

Defn: In a steadfast manner; firmly.
Steadfast believe that whatever God has revealed is infallibly true.
Wake.

STEADFASTNESS
Stead"fast*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being steadfast; firmness; fixedness;
constancy. "The steadfastness of your faith." Col. ii. 5.
To prove her wifehood and her steadfastness. Chaucer.

STEADILY
Stead"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a steady manner.

STEADINESS
Stead"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being steady.
Steadiness is a point of prudence as well as of courage. L'Estrange.

Syn.
 -- Constancy; resolution; unchangeableness.

STEADING
Stead"ing, n.

Defn: The brans, stables, cattle-yards, etc., of a farm; -- called
also onstead, farmstead, farm offices, or farmery. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.]

STEADY
Stead"y, a. [Compar. Steadier; superl. Steadiest.] Etym: [Cf. AS.
stedig sterile, barren, st?, steady (in gest?), D. stedig, stadig,
steeg, G. statig, stetig. See Stead, n.]

1. Firm in standing or position; not tottering or shaking; fixed;
firm. "The softest, steadiest plume." Keble.
Their feet steady, their hands diligent, their eyes watchful, and
their hearts resolute. Sir P. Sidney.

2. Constant in feeling, purpose, or pursuit; not fickle, changeable,
or wavering; not easily moved or persuaded to alter a purpose;
resolute; as, a man steady in his principles, in his purpose, or in
the pursuit of an object.

3. Regular; constant; undeviating; uniform; as, the steady course of
the sun; a steady breeze of wind.

Syn.
 -- Fixed; regular; uniform; undeviating; invariable; unremitted;
stable. Steady rest (Mach), a rest in a turning lathe, to keep a long
piece of work from trembling.

STEADY
Stead"y, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Steadied; p. pr. & vb. n. Steadying.]

Defn: To make steady; to hold or keep from shaking, reeling, or
falling; to make or keep firm; to support; to make constant, regular,
or resolute.

STEADY
Stead"y, v. i.

Defn: To become steady; to regain a steady position or state; to move
steadily.
Without a breeze, without a tide, She steadies with upright keel.
Coleridge.

STEAK
Steak, n. Etym: [OE. steike, Icel. steik, akin to Icel. steikja to
roast, stikna to be roasted or scorched, and E. stick, the steak
being broiled on a spit. See Stick, v. t.]

Defn: A slice of beef, broiled, or cut for broiling; -- also extended
to the meat of other large animals; as, venison steak; bear steak;
pork steak; turtle steak.

STEAL
Steal, n. Etym: [See Stale a handle.]

Defn: A handle; a stale, or stele. [Archaic or Prov. Eng.]
And in his hand a huge poleax did bear. Whose steale was iron-studded
but not long. Spenser.

STEAL
Steal, v. t. [imp. Stole; p. p. Stolen; p. pr. & vb. n. Stealing.]
Etym: [OE. stelen, AS. stelan; akin to OFries. stela, D. stelen, OHG.
stelan, G. stehlen, Icel. stela, SW. stjala, Dan. sti?le, Goth.
stilan.]

1. To take and carry away, feloniously; to take without right or
leave, and with intent to keep wrongfully; as, to steal the personal
goods of another.
Maugre thy heed, thou must for indigence Or steal, or borrow, thy
dispense. Chaucer.
The man who stole a goose and gave away the giblets in G. Eliot.

2. To withdraw or convey clandestinely (reflexive); hence, to creep
furtively, or to insinuate.
They could insinuate and steal themselves under the same by their
humble carriage and submission. Spenser.
He will steal himself into a man's favor. Shak.

3. To gain by insinuating arts or covert means.
So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. 2 Sam. xv. 6.

4. To get into one's power gradually and by imperceptible degrees; to
take possession of by a gradual and imperceptible appropriation; --
with away.
Variety of objects has a tendency to steal away the mind from its
steady pursuit of any subject. I. Watts.

5. To accomplish in a concealed or unobserved manner; to try to carry
out secretly; as, to steal a look.
Always, when thou changest thine opinion or course, profess it
plainly, . . . and do not think to steal it. Bacon.
To steal a march, to march in a covert way; to gain an advantage
unobserved; -- formerly followed by of, but now by on or upon, and
sometimes by over; as, to steal a march upon one's political rivals.
She yesterday wanted to steal a march of poor Liddy. Smollett.
Fifty thousand men can not easily steal a march over the sea.
Walpole.

Syn.
 -- To filch; pilfer; purloin; thieve.

STEAL
Steal, v. i.

1. To practice, or be guilty of, theft; to commit larceny or theft.
Thou shalt not steal. Ex. xx. 15.

2. To withdraw, or pass privily; to slip in, along, or away,
unperceived; to go or come furtively. Chaucer.
Fixed of mind to avoid further entreaty, and to fly all company, one
night she stole away. Sir P. Sidney.
From whom you now must steal, and take no leave. Shak.
A soft and solemn breathing sound Rose like a steam of rich,
distilled perfumes, And stole upon the air. Milton.

STEALER
Steal"er, n.

1. One who steals; a thief.

2. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: The endmost plank of a strake which stops short of the stem or
stern.

STEALING
Steal"ing, n.

1. The act of taking feloniously the personal property of another
without his consent and knowledge; theft; larceny.

2. That which is stolen; stolen property; -- chiefly used in the
plural.

STEALINGLY
Steal"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By stealing, or as by stealing, furtively, or by an invisible
motion. Sir P. Sidney.

STEALTH
Stealth, n. Etym: [OE. staple. See Steal, v. t.]

1. The act of stealing; theft. [Obs.]
The owner proveth the stealth to have been committed upon him by such
an outlaw. Spenser.

2. The thing stolen; stolen property. [Obs.] "Sluttish dens . . .
serving to cover stealths." Sir W. Raleigh.

3. The bringing to pass anything in a secret or concealed manner; a
secret procedure; a clandestine practice or action; -- in either a
good or a bad sense.
Do good by stealth, and blush to find it fame. Pope.
The monarch, blinded with desire of wealth, With steel invades the
brother's life by stealth. Dryden.
I told him of your stealth unto this wood. Shak.

STEALTHFUL
Stealth"ful, a.

Defn: Given to stealth; stealthy. [Obs.] -- Stealth"ful*ly, adv.
[Obs.] -- Stealth"ful*ness, n. [Obs.]

STEALTHILY
Stealth"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stealthy manner.

STEALTHINESS
Stealth"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state, quality, or character of being stealthy; stealth.

STEALTHLIKE
Stealth"like`, a.

Defn: Stealthy; sly. Wordsworth.

STEALTHY
Stealth"y, a. [Compar. Stealthier; superl. Stealthiest.]

Defn: Done by stealth; accomplished clandestinely; unperceived;
secret; furtive; sly.
[Withered murder] with his stealthy pace, . . . Moves like a ghost.
Shak.

STEAM
Steam, n. Etym: [OE. stem, steem, vapor, flame, AS. steam vapor,
smoke, odor; akin to D. stoom steam, perhaps originally, a pillar, or
something rising like a pillar; cf. Gr. stand.]

1. The elastic, aeriform fluid into which water is converted when
heated to the boiling points; water in the state of vapor.

2. The mist formed by condensed vapor; visible vapor; -- so called in
popular usage.

3. Any exhalation. "A steam og rich, distilled perfumes." Milton. Dry
steam, steam which does not contain water held in suspension
mechanically; -- sometimes applied to superheated steam.
 -- Exhaust steam. See under Exhaust.
 -- High steam, or High-pressure steam, steam of which the pressure
greatly exceeds that of the atmosphere.
 -- Low steam, or Low-pressure steam, steam of which the pressure is
less than, equal to, or not greatly above, that of the atmosphere.
 -- Saturated steam, steam at the temperature of the boiling point
which corresponds to its pressure; -- sometimes also applied to wet
steam.
 -- Superheated steam, steam heated to a temperature higher than the
boiling point corresponding to its pressure. It can not exist in
contact with water, nor contain water, and resembles a perfect gas; -
- called also surcharged steam, anhydrous steam, and steam gas.
 -- Wet steam, steam which contains water held in suspension
mechanically; -- called also misty steam.

Note: Steam is often used adjectively, and in combination, to denote,
produced by heat, or operated by power, derived from steam, in
distinction from other sources of power; as in steam boiler or steam-
boiler, steam dredger or steam-dredger, steam engine or steam-engine,
steam heat, steam plow or steam-plow, etc. Steam blower. (a) A blower
for producing a draught consisting of a jet or jets of steam in a
chimney or under a fire. (b) A fan blower driven directly by a steam
engine.
 -- Steam boiler, a boiler for producing steam. See Boiler, 3, and
Note. In the illustration, the shell a of the boiler is partly in
section, showing the tubes, or flues, which the hot gases, from the
fire beneath the boiler, enter, after traversing the outside of the
shell, and through which the gases are led to the smoke pipe d, which
delivers them to the chimney; b is the manhole; c the dome; e the
steam pipe; f the feed and blow-off pipe; g the safety value; hthe
water gauge.
 -- Steam car, a car driven by steam power, or drawn by a locomotive.
 -- Steam carriage, a carriage upon wheels moved on common roads by
steam.
 -- Steam casing. See Steam jacket, under Jacket.
 -- Steam chest, the box or chamber from which steam is distributed
to the cylinder of a steam engine, steam pump, etc., and which
usually contains one or more values; -- called also valve chest, and
valve box. See Illust. of Slide valve, under Slide.
 -- Steam chimney, an annular chamber around the chimney of a boiler
furnace, for drying steam.
 -- Steam coil, a coil of pipe, or collection of connected pipes, for
containing steam; -- used for heating, drying, etc.
 -- Steam colors (Calico Printing), colors in which the chemical
reaction fixed the coloring matter in the fiber is produced by steam.
 -- Steam cylinder, the cylinder of a steam engine, which contains
the piston. See Illust. of Slide valve, under Slide.
 -- Steam dome (Steam Boilers), a chamber upon the top of the boiler,
from which steam is conduced to the engine. See Illust. of Steam
boiler, above.
 -- Steam fire engine, a fire engine consisting of a steam boiler and
engine, and pump which is driven by the engine, combined and mounted
on wheels. It is usually drawn by horses, but is sometimes made self-
propelling.
 -- Steam fitter, a fitter of steam pipes.
 -- Steam fitting, the act or the occupation of a steam fitter; also,
a pipe fitting for steam pipes.
 -- Steam gas. See Superheated steam, above.
 -- Steam gauge, an instrument for indicating the pressure of the
steam in a boiler. The mercurial steam gauge is a bent tube partially
filled with mercury, one end of which is connected with the boiler
while the other is open to the air, so that the steam by its pressure
raises the mercury in the long limb of the tume to a height
proportioned to that pressure. A more common form, especially for
high pressures, consists of a spring pressed upon by the steam, and
connected with the pointer of a dial. The spring may be a flattened,
bent tube, closed at one end, which the entering steam tends to
straighten, or it may be a diaphragm of elastic metal, or a mass of
confined air, etc.
 -- Steam gun, a machine or contrivance from which projectiles may be
thrown by the elastic force of steam.
 -- Steam hammer, a hammer for forging, which is worked directly by
steam; especially, a hammer which is guided vertically and operated
by a vertical steam cylinder located directly over an anvil. In the
variety known as Nasmyth's, the cylinder is fixed, and the hammer is
attached to the piston rod. In that known as Condie's, the piston is
fixed, and the hammer attached to the lower end of the cylinder.
 -- Steam heater. (a) A radiator heated by steam. (b) An apparatus
consisting of a steam boiler, radiator, piping, and fixures for
warming a house by steam.
 -- Steam jacket. See under Jacket.
 -- Steam packet, a packet or vessel propelled by steam, and running
periodically between certain ports.
 -- Steam pipe, any pipe for conveying steam; specifically, a pipe
through which steam is supplied to an engine.
 -- Steam plow or plough, a plow, or gang of plows, moved by a steam
engine.
 -- Steam port, an opening for steam to pass through, as from the
steam chest into the cylinder.
 -- Steam power, the force or energy of steam applied to produce
results; power derived from a steam engine.
 -- Steam propeller. See Propeller.
 -- Steam pump, a small pumping engine operated by steam. It is
usually direct-acting.
 -- Steam room (Steam Boilers), the space in the boiler above the
water level, and in the dome, which contains steam.
 -- Steam table, a table on which are dishes heated by steam for
keeping food warm in the carving room of a hotel, restaurant, etc.
 -- Steam trap, a self-acting device by means of which water that
accumulates in a pipe or vessel containing steam will be discharged
without permitting steam to escape.
 -- Steam tug, a steam vessel used in towing or propelling ships.
 -- Steam vessel, a vessel propelled by steam; a steamboat or
steamship; -- a steamer.
 -- Steam whistle, an apparatus attached to a steam boiler, as of a
locomotive, through which steam is rapidly discharged, producing a
loud whistle which serves as a warning signal. The steam issues from
a narrow annular orifice around the upper edge of the lower cup or
hemisphere, striking the thin edge of the bell above it, and
producing sound in the manner of an organ pipe or a common whistle.

STEAM
Steam, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Steamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Steaming.]

1. To emit steam or vapor.
My brother's ghost hangs hovering there, O'er his warm blood, that
steams into the air. Dryden.
Let the crude humors dance In heated brass, steaming with fire
intence. J. Philips.

2. To rise in vapor; to issue, or pass off, as vapor.
The dissolved amber . . . steamed away into the air. Boyle.

3. To move or travel by the agency of steam.
The vessel steamed out of port. N. P. Willis.

4. To generate steam; as, the boiler steams well.

STEAM
Steam, v. t.

1. To exhale. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To expose to the action of steam; to apply steam to for softening,
dressing, or preparing; as, to steam wood; to steamcloth; to steam
food, etc.

STEAMBOAT
Steam"boat`, n.

Defn: A boat or vessel propelled by steam power; -- generally used of
river or coasting craft, as distinguished from ocean steamers.

STEAMBOATING
Steam"boat`ing, n.

1. The occupation or business of running a steamboat, or of
transporting merchandise, passengers, etc., by steamboats.

2. (Bookbinding)

Defn: The shearing of a pile of books which are as yet uncovered, or
out of boards. Knight.

STEAM ENGINE
Steam" en"gine.

Defn: An engine moved by steam.

Note: In its most common forms its essential parts are a piston, a
cylinder, and a valve gear. The piston works in the cylinder, to
which steam is admitted by the action of the valve gear, and
communicates motion to the machinery to be actuated. Steam engines
are thus classified: 1. According to the wat the steam is used or
applied, as condencing, noncondencing, compound, double-acting,
single-acting, triple-expansion, etc. 2. According to the motion of
the piston, as reciprocating, rotary, etc. 3. According to the motion
imparted by the engine, as rotative and nonrotative. 4. According to
the arrangement of the engine, as stationary, portable, and
semiportable engines, beam engine, oscillating engine, direct-acting
and back-acting engines, etc. 5. According to their uses, as
portable, marine, locomotive, pumping, blowing, winding, and
stationary engines. Locomotive and portable engines are usually high-
pressure, noncondencing, rotative, and direct-acting. Marine engines
are high or low pressure, rotative, and generally condencing, double-
acting, and compound. Paddle engines are generally beam, sideScrew
engines are generally direct-acting, back-acting, or oscillating.
Stationary engines belong to various classes, but are generally
rotative. A horizontal or inclined stationary steam engine is called
a left-hand or a right-hand engine when the crank shaft and driving
pulley are on the left-hand side, or the right-hand side,
respectively, or the engine, to a person looking at them from the
cylinder, and is said to run forward or backward when the crank
traverses the upward half, or lower half, respectively, of its path,
while the piston rod makes its stroke outward from the cylinder. A
marine engine, or the engine of a locomotive, is said to run forward
when its motion is such as would propel the vessel or the locomotive
forward. Steam engines are further classified as double-cylinder,
disk, semicylinder, trunk engines, etc. Machines, such as cranes,
hammers, etc., of which the steam engine forms a part, are called
steam cranes, steam hammers, etc. See Illustration in Appendix. Back-
acting, or Back-action, steam engine, a steam engine in which the
motion is transmitted backward from the crosshead to a crank which is
between the crosshead and the cylinder, or beyond the cylinder.
 -- Portable steam engine, a steam engine combined with, and attached
to, a boiler which is mounted on wheels so as to admit of easy
transportation; -- used for driving machinery in the field, as
trashing machines, draining pumps, etc.
 -- Semiportable steam engine, a steam engine combined with, and
attached to, a steam boiler, but not mounted on wheels.

STEAMER
Steam"er, n.

1. A vessel propelled by steam; a steamship or steamboat.

2. A steam fire engine. See under Steam.

3. A road locomotive for use on common roads, as in agricultural
operations.

4. A vessel in which articles are subjected to the action of steam,
as in washing, in cookery, and in various processes of manufacture.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: The steamer duck. Steamer duck (Zool.), a sea duck (Tachyeres
cinereus), native of Patagonia and Terra del Fuego, which swims and
dives with great agility, but which, when full grown, is incapable of
flight, owing to its very small wings. Called also loggerhead, race
horse, and side wheel duck.

STEAMINESS
Steam"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being steamy; vaporousness;
mistness.

STEAMSHIP
Steam"ship`, n.

Defn: A ship or seagoing vessel propelled by the power of steam; a
steamer.

STEAMY
Steam"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, steam; full of steam; vaporous;
misty. Cowper.

STEAN
Stean, n. & v.

Defn: See Steen. Spenser.

STEANINGP
Stean"ingp, n.

Defn: See Steening.

STEAPSIN
Ste*ap"sin, n. (Physiol Chem.)

Defn: An unorganized ferment or enzyme present in pancreatic juice.
It decomposes neutral fats into glycerin and fatty acids.

STEARATE
Ste"a*rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of stearic acid; as, ordinary soap consists largely of
sodium or potassium stearates.

STEARIC
Ste*ar"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stearique.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, stearin or tallow; resembling
tallow. Stearic acid (Chem.), a monobasic fatty acid, obtained in the
form of white crystalline scales, soluble in alcohol and ether. It
melts to an oily liquid at 69C.C18H36O2, CH3.(CH2)16.COOH; sodium
stearate, with sodium palmitate, is the main component of ordinary
bar soaps (Such as Ivory soap).

STEARIN
Ste"a*rin, n. Etym: [Gr. stearine.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: One of the constituents of animal fats and also of some
vegetable fats, as the butter of cacao. It is especially
characterized by its solidity, so that when present in considerable
quantity it materially increases the hardness, or raises the melting
point, of the fat, as in mutton tallow. Chemically, it is a compound
of glyceryl with three molecules of stearic acid, and hence is
technically called tristearin, or glyceryl tristearate.

STEAROLIC
Ste`a*rol"ic, a. Etym: [Stearic + oleic + -ic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid of the acetylene
series, isologous with stearis acid, and obtained, as a white
crystalline substance, from oleic acid.

STEARONE
Ste"a*rone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The ketone of stearic acid, obtained as a white crystalline
substance, (C17H35)2.CO, by the distillation of calcium stearate.

STEAROPTENE
Ste`a*rop"tene, n. Etym: [Stearic + -optene as in el?optene.] (Chem.)

Defn: The more solid ingredient of certain volatile oils; --
contrasted with el?optene.

STEARRHEA
Ste`ar*rhe"a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: seborrhea.

STEARYL
Ste"a*ryl, n. Etym: [Stearic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical radical characteristic of stearic acid.

STEATITE
Ste"a*tite, n. Etym: [Gr. steatite.] (Min.)

Defn: A massive variety of talc, of a grayish green or brown color.
It forms extensive beds, and is quarried for fireplaces and for
coarse utensils. Called also potstone, lard stone, and soapstone.

STEATITIC
Ste`a*tit"ic, n. (Min.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, steatite; containing or
resembling steatite.

STEATOMA
Ste`a*to"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A cyst containing matter like suet.

STEATOMATOUS
Ste`a*tom"a*tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of the nature of steatoma.

STEATOPYGA
Ste`a*top"y*ga, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A remarkable accretion of fat upon the buttocks of Africans of
certain tribes, especially of Hottentot women.

STEATOPYGOUS
Ste`a*top"y*gous, a.

Defn: Having fat buttocks.
Specimens of the steatopygous Abyssinian breed. Burton.

STED; STEDFAST; STEDFASTLY
Sted, n., Sted"fast, a., Sted"fast*ly, adv., etc.

Defn: See Stead, Steadfast, etc.

STEE
Stee, n. Etym: [Cf. G. stiege. *164. See Stair.]

Defn: A ladder. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] [Written also stey.]

STEED
Steed, n. Etym: [OE. stede, AS. steda a stud-horse, war horse, fr.
stod a stud of breeding steeds; akin to G. stute a mare, Icel.
stedda, sto, a stud. *163. See Stud of horses.]

Defn: A horse, especially a spirited horse for state of war; -- used
chiefly in poetry or stately prose. "A knight upon a steed." Chaucer.
Mounted upon a hot and fiery steed. Shak.

STEEDLESS
Steed"less, a.

Defn: Having no steed; without a horse.

STEEK; STEIK
Steek, Steik, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Stick, v. t.]

Defn: To pierce with a sharp instrument; hence, to stitch; to sew;
also, to fix; to fasten. [Scot.]

STEEL
Steel, n. Etym: [AS. stel, styl, style; akin to D. staal, G. stahl,
OHG. stahal, Icel. stal, Dan. staal, Sw. stal, Old Prussian stakla.]

1. (Metal)

Defn: A variety of iron intermediate in composition and properties
between wrought iron and cast iron (containing between one half of
one per cent and one and a half per cent of carbon), and consisting
of an alloy of iron with an iron carbide. Steel, unlike wrought iron,
can be tempered, and retains magnetism. Its malleability decreases,
and fusibility increases, with an increase in carbon.

2. An instrument or implement made of steel; as: --
(a) A weapon, as a sword, dagger, etc. "Brave Macbeth . . . with his
brandished steel." Shak.
While doubting thus he stood, Received the steel bathed in his
brother's blood. Dryden.

(b) An instrument of steel (usually a round rod) for sharpening
knives.
(c) A piece of steel for striking sparks from flint.

3. Fig.: Anything of extreme hardness; that which is characterized by
sternness or rigor. "Heads of steel." Johnson. "Manhood's heart of
steel." Byron.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A chalybeate medicine. Dunglison.

Note: Steel is often used in the formation of compounds, generally of
obvious meaning; as, steel-clad, steel-girt, steel-hearted, steel-
plated, steel-pointed, etc. Bessemer steel (Metal.) See in the
Vocabulary.
 -- Blister steel. (Metal.) See under Blister.
 -- Cast steel (Metal.), a fine variety of steel, originally made by
smelting blister or cementation steel; hence, ordinarily, steel of
any process of production when remelted and cast.
 -- Cromium steel (Metal.), a hard, tenacious variety containing a
little cromium, and somewhat resembling tungsten steel.
 -- Mild steel (Metal.), a kind of steel having a lower proportion of
carbon than ordinary steel, rendering it softer and more malleable.
 -- Puddled steel (Metal.), a variety of steel produced from cast
iron by the puddling process.
 -- Steel duck (Zool.), the goosander, or merganser. [Prov. Eng.] --
Steel mill. (a) (Firearms) See Wheel lock, under Wheel. (b) A mill
which has steel grinding surfaces. (c) A mill where steel is
manufactured.
 -- Steel trap, a trap for catching wild animals. It consists of two
iron jaws, which close by means of a powerful steel spring when the
animal disturbs the catch, or tongue, by which they are kept open.
 -- Steel wine, wine, usually sherry, in which steel filings have
been placed for a considerable time, -- used as a medicine.
 -- Tincture of steel (Med.), an alcoholic solution of the chloride
of iron.
 -- Tungsten steel (Metal.), a variety of steel containing a small
amount of tungsten, and noted for its tenacity and hardness, as well
as for its malleability and tempering qualities. It is also noted for
its magnetic properties.

STEEL
Steel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Steeled; p. pr. & vb. n. Steeling.] Etym:
[AS. stlan: cf. Icel. st?la. See Steel, n.]

1. To overlay, point, or edge with steel; as, to steel a razor; to
steel an ax.

2. To make hard or strong; hence, to make insensible or obdurate.
Lies well steeled with weighty arguments. Shak.
O God of battles! steel my soldier's hearts. Shak.
Why will you fight against so sweet a passion, And steel your heart
to such a world of charms Addison.

3. Fig.: To cause to resemble steel, as in smoothness, polish, or
other qualities.
These waters, steeled By breezeless air to smoothest polish.
Wordsworth.

4. (Elec.)

Defn: To cover, as an electrotype plate, with a thin layer of iron by
electrolysis. The iron thus deposited is very hard, like steel.

STEELBOW GOODS
Steel"bow` goods". (Scots Law)

Defn: Those goods on a farm, such as corn, cattle, implements
husbandry, etc., which may not be carried off by a removing tenant,
as being the property of the landlord.

STEELER
Steel"er, n.

Defn: One who points, edges, or covers with steel.

STEELER
Steel"er, n. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: Same as Stealer.

STEELHEAD
Steel"head`, n.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A North Pacific salmon (Salmo Gairdneri) found from Northern
California to Siberia; -- called also hardhead, and preesil.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The ruddy duck.

STEELINESS
Steel"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being steely.

STEELING
Steel"ing, n.

Defn: The process of pointing, edging, or overlaying with steel;
specifically, acierage. See Steel, v.

STEELY
Steel"y, a.

1. Made of steel; consisting of steel. "The steely point of
Clifford's lance." Shak.
Around his shop the steely sparkles flew. Gay.

2. Resembling steel; hard; firm; having the color of steel. "His hair
was steely gray." The Century.
She would unarm her noble heart of that steely resistance against the
sweet blows of love. Sir P. Sidney.
Steely iron, a compound of iron containing less than one half of one
per cent of carbon.

STEELYARD
Steel"yard, n. Etym: [So named from a place in London called the
Steelyard, which was a yard in which steel was sold.]

Defn: A form of balance in which the body to be weighed is suspended
from the shorter arm of a lever, which turns on a fulcrum, and a
counterpoise is caused to slide upon the longer arm to produce
equilibrium, its place upon this arm (which is notched or graduated)
indicating the weight; a Roman balance; -- very commonly used also in
the plural form, steelyards.

STEEM
Steem, n. & v.

Defn: See Esteem. [Obs.] Spenser.

STEEM
Steem, n. & v.

Defn: See 1st and 2nd Stem. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STEEN
Steen, n. Etym: [AS. st. See Stone.] [Written also stean.]

1. A vessel of clay or stone. "An huge great earth-pot steane."
Spenser.

2. A wall of brick, stone, or cement, used as a lining, as of a well,
cistern, etc.; a steening.

STEEN
Steen, v. t. Etym: [AS. st to adorn with stones or gems. See Stone.]

Defn: To line, as a well, with brick, stone, or other hard material.
[Written also stean, and stein.]

STEENBOK
Steen"bok`, n. Etym: [D. steen stone + bok buck.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Steinbock.

STEENING
Steen"ing, n.

Defn: A lining made of brick, stone, or other hard material, as for a
well. [Written also steaning.]

STEENKIRK; STEINKIRK
Steen"kirk`, Stein"kirk`, n. Etym: [So called from the battle of
Steinkirk, in 1692, on which occasion the French nobles had no time
to arrange their lace neckcloths.]

Defn: A kind of neckcloth worn in a loose and disorderly fashion.

STEEP
Steep (step), a.

Defn: Bright; glittering; fiery. [Obs.]
His eyen steep, and rolling in his head. Chaucer.

STEEP
Steep, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Steeped (stept); p. pr. & vb. n.
Steeping.] Etym: [OE. stepen, probably fr. Icel. steypa to cause to
stoop, cast down, pour out, to cast metals, causative of stupa to
stoop; cf. Sw. stopa to cast, to steep, Dan. stobe, D. & G. stippen
to steep, to dip. Cf. Stoop, v. t.]

Defn: To soak in a liquid; to macerate; to extract the essence of by
soaking; as, to soften seed by steeping it in water. Often used
figuratively.
Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep. Shak.
In refreshing dew to steep The little, trembling flowers. Wordsworth.
The learned of the nation were steeped in Latin. Earle.

STEEP
Steep, v. i.

Defn: To undergo the process of soaking in a liquid; as, the tea is
steeping. [Colloq.]

STEEP
Steep, n.

1. Something steeped, or used in steeping; a fertilizing liquid to
hasten the germination of seeds.

2. A rennet bag. [Prov. Eng.]

STEEP
Steep, a. [Comper. Steeper; superl. Steepest.] Etym: [OE. steep,
step, AS. steap; akin to Icel. steyp steep, and stupa to stoop, Sw.
stupa to fall, to tilt; cf. OFries. stap high. Cf. Stoop, v. i.,
Steep, v. t., Steeple.]

1. Making a large angle with the plane of the horizon; ascending or
descending rapidly with respect to a horizontal line or a level;
precipitous; as, a steep hill or mountain; a steep roof; a steep
ascent; a steep declivity; a steep barometric gradient.

2. Difficult of access; not easy reached; lofty; elevated; high.
[Obs.] Chapman.

3. Excessive; as, a steep price. [Slang]

STEEP
Steep, n.

Defn: A precipitous place, hill, mountain, rock, or ascent; any
elevated object sloping with a large angle to the plane of the
horizon; a precipice. Dryden.
We had on each side naked rocks and mountains broken into a thousand
irregular steeps and precipices. Addison.
Bare steeps, where desolation stalks. Wordsworth.

STEEP-DOWN
Steep"-down`, a.

Defn: Deep and precipitous, having steep descent. [R.]
Wash me in steep-down gulfs of liquid fire. Shak.

STEEPEN
Steep"en, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Steepened; p. pr. & vb. n. Steepening.]

Defn: To become steep or steeper.
As the way steepened . . . I could detect in the hollow of the hill
some traces of the old path. H. Miller.

STEEPER
Steep"er, n.

Defn: A vessel, vat, or cistern, in which things are steeped.

STEEPINESS
Steep"i*ness, n.

Defn: Steepness. Howell.

STEEPISH
Steep"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat steep. Carlyle.

STEEPLE
Stee"ple, n. Etym: [OE. stepel, AS. stepel, st; akin to E. steep, a.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A spire; also, the tower and spire taken together; the whole of
a structure if the roof is of spire form. See Spire. "A weathercock
on a steeple." Shak. Rood steeple. See Rood tower, under Rood.
 -- Steeple bush (Bot.), a low shrub (Spir?a tomentosa) having dense
panicles of minute rose-colored flowers; hardhack.
 -- Steeple chase, a race across country between a number of
horsemen, to see which can first reach some distant object, as a
church steeple; hence, a race over a prescribed course obstructed by
such obstacles as one meets in riding across country, as hedges,
walls, etc.
 -- Steeple chaser, one who rides in a steeple chase; also, a horse
trained to run in a steeple chase.
 -- Steeple engine, a vertical back-acting steam engine having the
cylinder beneath the crosshead.
 -- Steeple house, a church. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

STEEPLECHASING
Stee"ple*chas`ing, n.

Defn: The act of riding steeple chases.

STEEPLE-CROWNED
Stee"ple-crowned`, a.

1. Bearing a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned building.

2. Having a crown shaped like a steeple; as, a steeple-crowned hat;
also, wearing a hat with such a crown.
This grave, beared, sable-cloaked, and steeple-crowned progenitor.
Hawthorne.

STEEPLED
Stee"pled, a.

Defn: Furnished with, or having the form of, a steeple; adorned with
steeples. Fairfax.

STEEPLY
Steep"ly, adv.

Defn: In a steep manner; with steepness; with precipitous declivity.

STEEPNESS
Steep"ness, n.

1. Quality or state of being steep; precipitous declivity; as, the
steepnessof a hill or a roof.

2. Height; loftiness. [Obs.] Chapman.

STEEP-UP
Steep"-up`, a.

Defn: Lofty and precipitous. [R.]
Her stand she takes upon a steep-up hill. Shak.

STEEPY
Steep"y, a.

Defn: Steep; precipitous. [Poetic]
No more, my goats, shall I belong you climb The steepy cliffs, or
crop the flow'ry thyme. Dryden.

STEER
Steer, n. Etym: [OE. steer, AS. steor; akin to D. & G. stier a bull,
OHG. stior, Icel. stjorr, , Sw. tjur, Dan. tyr, Goth. stiur, Russ.
tur', Pol. tur, Ir. & Gael. tarbh, W. tarw, L. taurus, Gr. sth
strong, stout, AS. stor large, Icel. storr, OHG. st, stiuri. *168.
Cf. Stirk, Taurine, a.]

Defn: A young male of the ox kind; especially, a common ox; a
castrated taurine male from two to four years old. See the Note under
Ox.

STEER
Steer, v. t.

Defn: To castrate; -- said of male calves.

STEER
Steer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Steered; p. pr. & vb. n. Steering.] Etym:
[OE. steeren, steren, AS. stieran, st, steoran; akin to OFries.
stiora, stiura, D. sturen, OD. stieren, G. steuren, OHG. stiuren to
direct, support, G. steuer contribution, tax, Icel. st to steer,
govern,Sw. styra, Dan. styre, Goth. stiurjan to establish, AS. steor
a rudder, a helm, and probably to Icel. staurr a pale, stake, Gr.
stand. *168. Cf. Starboard, Stern, n.]

Defn: To direct the course of; to guide; to govern; -- applied
especially to a vessel in the water.
That with a staff his feeble steps did steer. Spenser.

STEER
Steer, v. i.

1. To direct a vessel in its course; to direct one's course. "No
helmsman steers." Tennyson.

2. To be directed and governed; to take a direction, or course; to
obey the helm; as, the boat steers easily.
Where the wind Veers oft, as oft [a ship] so steers, and shifts her
sail. Milton.

3. To conduct one's self; to take or pursue a course of action.

STEER
Steer, n. Etym: [AS. steor, stior; akin to D. stuur, G. steuer, Icel.
st. *186. See Steer, v. t.] [Written also stere.]

Defn: A rudder or helm. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STEER
Steer, n. Etym: [AS. steora. See Steer a rudder.]

Defn: A helmsman, a pilot. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STEERABLE
Steer"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being steered; dirigible.

STEERAGE
Steer"age, n.

1. The act or practice of steering, or directing; as, the steerage of
a ship.
He left the city, and, in a most tempestuous season, forsook the helm
and steerage of the common wealth. Milton.

2. (Naut.)
(a) The effect of the helm on a ship; the manner in which an
individual ship is affected by the helm.
(b) The hinder part of a vessel; the stern. [R.] Swift.
(c) Properly, the space in the after part of a vessel, under the
cabin, but used generally to indicate any part of a vessel having the
poorest accommodations and occupied by passengers paying the lowest
rate of fare.

3. Direction; regulation; management; guidance.
He that hath the steerage of my course. Shak.

4. That by which a course is directed. [R.]
Here he hung on high, The steerage of his wings. Dryden.
Steerage passenger, a passenger who takes passage in the steerage of
a vessel.

STEERAGEWAY
Steer"age*way`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A rate of motion through the water sufficient to render a
vessel governable by the helm.

STEERER
Steer"er, n.

Defn: One who steers; as, a boat steerer.

STEERING
Steer"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Steer, v. Steering wheel (Naut.), the wheel by means of
which the rudder of a vessel is turned and the vessel is steered.

STEERLESS
Steer"less, a.

Defn: Having no rudder. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STEERLING
Steer"ling, n.

Defn: A young small steer.

STEERSMAN
Steers"man, n.; pl. Steersmen. Etym: [Steer a rudder + man: cf. AS.
steorman.]

Defn: One who steers; the helmsman of a vessel. Milton.

STEERSMATE
Steers"mate, n. Etym: [Steer a rudder + mate a companion.]

Defn: One who steers; steersman. [Obs.] Milton.

STEEVE
Steeve, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Steeved; p. pr. & vb. n. Steeving.] Etym:
[Cf. OD. steve staff, E. stem, n.] (Shipbuilding)

Defn: To project upward, or make an angle with the horizon or with
the line of a vessel's keel; -- said of the bowsprit, etc.

STEEVE
Steeve, v. t.

1. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: To elevate or fix at an angle with the horizon; -- said of the
bowsprit, etc.

2. To stow, as bales in a vessel's hold, by means of a steeve. See
Steeve, n. (b).

STEEVE
Steeve, n. (Naut.)
(a) The angle which a bowsprit makes with the horizon, or with the
line of the vessel's keel; -- called also steeving.
(b) A spar, with a block at one end, used in stowing cotton bales,
and similar kinds of cargo which need to be packed tightly.

STEEVING
Steev"ing, n.

1. The act or practice of one who steeves.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: See Steeve, n. (a).

STEG
Steg, n. Etym: [Icel. steggr the male of several animals. Cf. Stag.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A gander. [Written also stag.] [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STEGANOGRAPHIST
Steg`a*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One skilled in steganography; a cryptographer.

STEGANOGRAPHY
Steg`a*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The art of writing in cipher, or in characters which are not
intelligible except to persons who have the key; cryptography.

STEGANOPHTHALMATA
Steg`a*noph*thal"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: The Discophora, or Phanerocarp?. Called also Steganophthalmia.

STEGANOPOD
Ste*gan"o*pod, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Steganopodes.

STEGANOPODES
Steg`a*nop"o*des, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of swimming birds in which all four toes are united
by a broad web. It includes the pelicans, cormorants, gannets, and
others.

STEGANOPODOUS
Steg`a*nop"o*dous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having all four toes webbed together.

STEGNOSIS
Steg*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Stegnotic.] (Med.)

Defn: Constipation; also, constriction of the vessels or ducts.

STEGNOTIC
Steg*no"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Tending to render costive, or to diminish excretions or
discharges generally.
 -- n.

Defn: A stegnotic medicine; an astringent.

STEGOCEPHALA
Steg`o*ceph"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of amphibians found fossil in the Mesozoic
rocks; called also Stegocephali, and Labyrinthodonta.

Note: Their teeth, in transverse sections, usually show a
labyrinthiform arrangement of the cement and dentine. The under side
of the body was covered with bony plates. Some of the Stegocephala
were of very large size, and the form of the body varied from short,
stout forms to others that were as slender as serpents.

STEGOSAURIA
Steg`o*sau"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Stegosaurus.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs, including the genera
Stegosaurus, Omosaurus, and their allies.

STEGOSAURUS
Steg`o*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of large Jurassic dinosaurs remarkable for a powerful
dermal armature of plates and spines.

STEIK
Steik, v. t.

Defn: See Steek. [Scot.]

STEIN
Stein, n. & v.

Defn: See Steen.

STEINBOCK
Stein"bock`, n. Etym: [G. stein stone + bock buck, D. bok. Cf.
Steenbok.] (Zool.)
(a) The European ibex.
(b) A small South African antelope (Nanotragus tragulus) which
frequents dry, rocky districts; -- called also steenbok. [Written
also steinboc, and steinbok; also called stonebock, and stonebuck.]

STEINGALE
Stein"gale, n.

Defn: The stannel. [Prov. Eng.]

STEINING
Stein"ing, n.

Defn: See Steening.

STEINKIRK
Stein"kirk`, n.

Defn: Same as Steenkirk.

STEINKLE
Stein"kle, n.

Defn: The wheater. [Prov. Eng.]

STELA
Ste"la, n.; pl. Stel?. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: A small column or pillar, used as a monument, milestone, etc.

STELE
Ste"le, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Same as Stela.
One of these steles, containing the Greek version of the ordinance,
has recently been discovered. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).

STELE
Stele, n. Etym: [See Stale a handle.]

Defn: A stale, or handle; a stalk. [Obs.] Chaucer. Holland.

STELENE
Ste"lene, a. Etym: [See Stela.]

Defn: Resembling, or used as, a stela; columnar. [R.]

STELL
Stell, v. t. Etym: [AS. stellan. *163.]

Defn: To place or fix firmly or permanently. [Obs.] Shak.

STELL
Stell, n. Etym: [See Stell, v. t.]

1. A prop; a support, as for the feet in standing or cilmbing.
[Scot.]

2. A partial inclosure made by a wall or trees, to serve as a shelter
for sheep or cattle. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STELLAR; STELLARY
Stel"lar, Stel"la*ry, a. Etym: [L. stellaris, fr. stella a star. See
Star.]

1. Of or pertaining to stars; astral; as, a stellar figure; stellary
orbs.
[These soft fires] in part shed down Their stellar virtue. Milton.

2. Full of stars; starry; as, stellar regions.

STELLATE; STELLATED
Stel"late, Stel"la*ted, a. Etym: [L. stellatus, p.p. of stellare to
set or cover with stars, from stella a star. See Stellar.]

1. Resembling a star; pointed or radiated, like the emblem of a star.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Starlike; having similar parts radiating from a common center;
as, stellate flowers.

STELLATION
Stel*la"tion, n.

Defn: Radiation of light. [Obs.]

STELLED
Stelled, a. Etym: [See Stell to place.]

Defn: Firmly placed or fixed. [Obs.] "The stelled fires" [the stars].
Shak.

Note: [In this passage by some defined as "starry," as if from
stellatus.]

STELLER
Stel"ler, n. Etym: [After Geo. W.Steller, a German naturalist.]
(Zool)

Defn: The rytina; -- called also stellerine.

STELLERID
Stel"ler*id, n. Etym: [L. stella a star.] (Zool.)

Defn: A starfish.

STELLERIDA
Stel*ler"i*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: An extensive group of echinoderms, comprising the starfishes
and ophiurans.

STELLERIDAN; STELLERIDEAN
Stel*ler"i*dan, Stel`ler*id"e*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A starfish, or brittle star.

STELLIFEROUS
Stel*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. stellifer; stella star + ferre 8bear.]

Defn: Having, or abounding with, stars.

STELLIFORM
Stel"li*form, a. Etym: [L. stella a star + -form.]

Defn: Like a star; star-shaped; radiated.

STELLIFY
Stel"li*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. stella a star + -fy.]

Defn: To turn into a star; to cause to appear like a star; to place
among the stars, or in heaven. [Obs. or R.] B. Jonson.

STELLION
Stel"lion, n. Etym: [L. stellio a newt having starlike spots on its
back, fr. stella a star.] (Zool.)

Defn: A lizard (Stellio vulgaris), common about the Eastern
Mediterranean among ruins. In color it is olive-green, shaded with
black, with small stellate spots. Called also hardim, and star
lizard.

STELLIONATE
Stel"lion*ate, n. Etym: [L. stellionatus cozenage, trickery, fr.
stellio a newt, a crafty, knavish person.] (Scots & Roman Law)

Defn: Any fraud not distinguished by a more special name; -- chiefly
applied to sales of the same property to two different persons, or
selling that for one's own which belongs to another, etc. Erskine.

STELLULAR
Stel"lu*lar, a. Etym: [L. stellula, dim. of stella a star.]

1. Having the shape or appearance of little stars; radiated.

2. Marked with starlike spots of color.

STELLULATE
Stel"lu*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Minutely stellate.

STELMATOPODA
Stel`ma*top"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Gymnol?mata.

STELOGRAPHY
Ste*log"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. Gr.

Defn: The art of writing or inscribing characters on pillars. [R.]
Stackhouse.

STEM; STEEM
Stem, Steem, v. i.

Defn: To gleam. [Obs.]
His head bald, that shone as any glass, . . . [And] stemed as a
furnace of a leed [caldron]. Chaucer.

STEM; STEEM
Stem, Steem, n.

Defn: A gleam of light; flame. [Obs.]

STEM
Stem, n. Etym: [AS. stemn, stefn, st?fn; akin to OS. stamn the stem
of a ship, D. stam stem, steven stem of a ship, G. stamm stem, steven
stem of a ship, Icel. stafn, stamn, stem of a ship, stofn, stomn,
stem, Sw. stam a tree trunk, Dan. stamme. Cf. Staff, Stand.]

1. The principal body of a tree, shrub, or plant, of any kind; the
main stock; the part which supports the branches or the head or top.
After they are shot up thirty feet in length, they spread a very
large top, having no bough nor twig in the trunk or the stem. Sir W.
Raleigh.
The lowering spring, with lavish rain, Beats down the slender stem
and breaded grain. Dryden.

2. A little branch which connects a fruit, flower, or leaf with a
main branch; a peduncle, pedicel, or petiole; as, the stem of an
apple or a cherry.

3. The stock of a family; a race or generation of progenitors. "All
that are of noble stem." Milton.
While I do pray, learn here thy stem And true descent. Herbert.

4. A branch of a family.
This is a stem Of that victorious stock. Shak.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: A curved piece of timber to which the two sides of a ship are
united at the fore end. The lower end of it is scarfed to the keel,
and the bowsprit rests upon its upper end. Hence, the forward part of
a vessel; the bow.

6. Fig.: An advanced or leading position; the lookout.
Wolsey sat at the stem more than twenty years. Fuller.

7. Anything resembling a stem or stalk; as, the stem of a tobacco
pipe; the stem of a watch case, or that part to which the ring, by
which it is suspended, is attached.

8. (Bot.)

Defn: That part of a plant which bears leaves, or rudiments of
leaves, whether rising above ground or wholly subterranean.

9. (Zool.)
(a) The entire central axis of a feather.
(b) The basal portion of the body of one of the Pennatulacea, or of a
gorgonian.

10. (Mus.)

Defn: The short perpendicular line added to the body of a note; the
tail of a crotchet, quaver, semiquaver, etc.

11. (Gram.)

Defn: The part of an inflected word which remains unchanged (except
by euphonic variations) throughout a given inflection; theme; base.
From stem to stern (Naut.), from one end of the ship to the other, or
through the whole length.
 -- Stem leaf (Bot.), a leaf growing from the stem of a plant, as
contrasted with a basal or radical leaf.

STEM
Stem, v. t.

1. To remove the stem or stems from; as, to stem cherries; to remove
the stem and its appendages (ribs and veins) from; as, to stem
tobacco leaves.

2. To ram, as clay, into a blasting hole.

STEM
Stem, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stemmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stemming.] Etym:
[Either from stem, n., or akin to stammer; cf. G. stemmen to press
against.]

Defn: To oppose or cut with, or as with, the stem of a vessel; to
resist, or make progress against; to stop or check the flow of, as a
current. "An argosy to stem the waves." Shak.
[They] stem the flood with their erected breasts. Denham.
Stemmed the wild torrent of a barbarous age. Pope.

STEM
Stem, v. i.

Defn: To move forward against an obstacle, as a vessel against a
current.
Stemming nightly toward the pole. Milton.

STEM-CLASPING
Stem"-clasp`ing, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Embracing the stem with its base; amplexicaul; as a leaf or
petiole.

STEMLESS
Stem"less, a.

Defn: Having no stem; (Bot.) acaulescent.

STEMLET
Stem"let, n.

Defn: A small or young stem.

STEMMA
Stem"ma, n.; pl. Stemmata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)
(a) One of the ocelli of an insect. See Ocellus.
(b) One of the facets of a compound eye of any arthropod.

STEMMER
Stem"mer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stems (in any of the senses of the
verbs).

STEMMERY
Stem"mer*y, n.

Defn: A large building in which tobacco is stemmed. [U. S.] Bartlett.

STEMMY
Stem"my, a.

Defn: Abounding in stems, or mixed with stems; -- said of tea, dried
currants, etc. [Colloq.]

STEMPLE
Stem"ple, n. Etym: [G. stempel a stamp, a prop, akin to E. stamp.]
(Mining)

Defn: A crossbar of wood in a shaft, serving as a step.

STEMSON
Stem"son, n. Etym: [See Stem, n., and Keelson, and cf. Sternson.]
(Shipbuilding)

Defn: A piece of curved timber bolted to the stem, keelson, and apron
in a ship's frame near the bow.

STEM-WINDER
Stem"-wind`er, n.

Defn: A stem-winding watch. [Colloq.]

STEM-WINDING
Stem"-wind`ing, a.

Defn: Wound by mechanism connected with the stem; as, a stem-winding
watch.

STENCH
Stench, v. t.

Defn: To stanch. [Obs.] Harvey.

STENCH
Stench, n. Etym: [AS. stenc a strong smell, fr. stincan. See Stink,
v. i.]

1. A smell; an odor. [Obs.]
Clouds of savory stench involve the sky. Dryden.

2. An ill smell; an offensive odor; a stink. Cowper. Stench trap, a
contrivance to prevent stench or foul air from rising from the
openings of sewers, drains, etc.

STENCH
Stench, v. t. Etym: [AS. stencan to emit a smell, fr. stincan to
smell. See Stench, n.]

Defn: To cause to emit a disagreeable odor; to cause to stink. [Obs.]
Young.

STENCHY
Stench"y, a.

Defn: Having a stench. [Obs.] Dyer.

STENCIL
Sten"cil, n. Etym: [Probably from OF. estincelle spangle, spark, F.
etincelle spark, L. scintilla. See Scintillate, and cf. Tinsel.]

Defn: A thin plate of metal, leather, or other material, used in
painting, marking, etc. The pattern is cut out of the plate, which is
then laid flat on the surface to be marked, and the color brushed
over it. Called also stencil plate.

STENCIL
Sten"cil, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stenciled or Stencilled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Stenciling or Stencilling.]

Defn: To mark, paint, or color in figures with stencils; to form or
print by means of a stencil.

STENCILER
Sten"cil*er, n.

Defn: One who paints or colors in figures by means of stencil.
[Written also stenciller.]

STENODERM
Sten"o*derm, n. Etym: [Gr. -derm.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of bat belonging to the genus Stenoderma, native of
the West Indies and South America. These bats have a short or
rudimentary tail and a peculiarly shaped nose membrane.

STENODERMINE
Sten`o*der"mine, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Stenoderma, which includes
several West Indian and South American nose-leaf bats.

STENOGRAPH
Sten"o*graph, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stenographed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stenographing.]

Defn: To write or report in stenographic characters.

STENOGRAPH
Sten"o*graph, n.

Defn: A production of stenography; anything written in shorthand.
I saw the reporters' room, in which they redact their hasty
stenographs. Emerson.

STENOGRAPHER
Ste*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who is skilled in stenography; a writer of shorthand.

STENOGRAPHIC; STENOGRAPHICAL
Sten`o*graph"ic, Sten`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
stenographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to stenography.

STENOGRAPHIST
Ste*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A stenographer.

STENOGRAPHY
Ste*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. graphy: cf. F. stenographie, G.
stenographie.]

Defn: The art of writing in shorthand, by using abbreviations or
characters for whole words; shorthand.

STENOPHYLLOUS
Ste*noph"yl*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having narrow leaves.

STENOSIS
Ste*no"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A narrowing of the opening or hollow of any passage, tube, or
orifice; as, stenosis of the pylorus. It differs from stricture in
being applied especially to diffused rather than localized
contractions, and in always indicating an origin organic and not
spasmodic.

STENOSTOME
Sten"o*stome, a. Etym: [Gr. steno`s narrow, little + sto`ma mouth.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Having a small or narrow mouth; -- said of certain small ground
snakes (Opoterodonta), which are unable to dilate their jaws.

STENT
Stent, v. t. [Obs. imp. Stente; obs. p. p. Stent.] Etym: [See Stint.]

Defn: To keep within limits; to restain; to cause to stop, or cease;
to stint.
Then would he weep, he might not be stent. Chaucer.
Yet n'ould she stent Her bitter railing and foul revilement. Spenser.

STENT
Stent, v. i.

Defn: To stint; to stop; to cease.
And of this cry they would never stenten. Chaucer.

STENT
Stent, n.

Defn: An allotted portion; a stint. "Attain'd his journey's stent."
Mir. for Mag.

STENTING
Stent"ing, n.

Defn: An opening in a wall in a coal mine. [Written also stenton.]
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STENTOR
Sten"tor, n. Etym: [L. Stentor, Gr.

1. A herald, in the Iliad, who had a very loud voice; hence, any
person having a powerful voice.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of ciliated Infusoria belonging to the genus
Stentor and allied genera, common in fresh water. The stentors have a
bell-shaped, or cornucopia-like, body with a circle of cilia around
the spiral terminal disk. See Illust. under Heterotricha.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A howling monkey, or howler.

STENTORIAN
Sten*to"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. stentoreus; cf. Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a stentor; extremely loud; powerful; as, a
stentorian voice; stentorian lungs.

STENTORIN
Sten"to*rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A blue coloring matter found in some stentors. See Stentor, 2.

STENTORIOUS
Sten*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Stentorian. [R.]

STENTORONIC
Sten`to*ron"ic, a.

Defn: Stentorian. [Obs.]

STENTOROPHONIC
Sten`to*ro*phon"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Stentor.]

Defn: Speaking or sounding very loud; stentorian. [Obs.]
Of this stentorophonic horn of Alexander there is a preserved in the
Vatican. Derham.

STEP
Step, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stepped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stepping.] Etym:
[AS. st?ppan; akin to OFries. steppa, D. stappen to step, stap a
step, OHG. stepfen to step, G. stapfe a footstep, OHG. stapfo, G.
stufe a step to step on; cf. Gr. Stamp, n. & a.]

1. To move the foot in walking; to advance or recede by raising and
moving one of the feet to another resting place, or by moving both
feet in succession.

2. To walk; to go on foot; esp., to walk a little distance; as, to
step to one of the neighbors.

3. To walk slowly, gravely, or resolutely.
Home the swain retreats, His flock before him stepping to the fold.
Thomson.

4. Fig.: To move mentally; to go in imagination.
They are stepping almost three thousand years back into the remotest
antiquity. Pope.
To step aside, to walk a little distance from the rest; to retire
from company.
 -- To step forth, to move or come forth.
 -- To step in or into. (a) To walk or advance into a place or state,
or to advance suddenly in.
Whosoever then first, after the troubling of the water, stepped in,
was made whole of whatsoever disease he had. John v. 4.
(b) To enter for a short time; as, I just stepped into the house. (c)
To obtain possession without trouble; to enter upon easily or
suddenly; as, to step into an estate.
 -- To step out. (a) (Mil.) To increase the length, but not the
rapidity, of the step, extending it to thirty-tree inches. (b) To go
out for a short distance or a short time.
 -- To step short (Mil.), to diminish the length or rapidity of the
step according to the established rules.

STEP
Step, v. t.

1. To set, as the foot.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To fix the foot of (a mast) in its step; to erect. To step off,
to measure by steps, or paces; hence, to divide, as a space, or to
form a series of marks, by successive measurements, as with dividers.

STEP
Step, n. Etym: [AS. st?pe. See Step, v. i.]

1. An advance or movement made by one removal of the foot; a pace.

2. A rest, or one of a set of rests, for the foot in ascending or
descending, as a stair, or a round of a ladder.
The breadth of every single step or stair should be never less than
one foot. Sir H. Wotton.

3. The space passed over by one movement of the foot in walking or
running; as, one step is generally about three feet, but may be more
or less. Used also figuratively of any kind of progress; as, he
improved step by step, or by steps.
To derive two or three general principles of motion from phenomena,
and afterwards to tell us how the properties and actions of all
corporeal things follow from those manifest principles, would be a
very great step in philosophy. Sir I. Newton.

4. A small space or distance; as, it is but a step.

5. A print of the foot; a footstep; a footprint; track.

6. Gait; manner of walking; as, the approach of a man is often known
by his step.

7. Proceeding; measure; action; an act.
The reputation of a man depends on the first steps he makes in the
world. Pope.
Beware of desperate steps. The darkest day, Live till to-morrow, will
have passed away. Cowper.
I have lately taken steps . . . to relieve the old gentleman's
distresses. G. W. Cable.

8. pl.

Defn: Walk; passage.
Conduct my steps to find the fatal tree. Dryden.

9. pl.

Defn: A portable framework of stairs, much used indoors in reaching
to a high position.

10. (Naut.)

Defn: In general, a framing in wood or iron which is intended to
receive an upright shaft; specif., a block of wood, or a solid
platform upon the keelson, supporting the heel of the mast.

11. (Mach.)
(a) One of a series of offsets, or parts, resembling the steps of
stairs, as one of the series of parts of a cone pulley on which the
belt runs.
(b) A bearing in which the lower extremity of a spindle or a vertical
shaft revolves.

12. (Mus.)

Defn: The intervak between two contiguous degrees of the csale.

Note: The word tone is often used as the name of this interval; but
there is evident incongruity in using tone for indicating the
interval between tones. As the word scale is derived from the Italian
scala, a ladder, the intervals may well be called steps.

13. (Kinematics)

Defn: A change of position effected by a motion of translation. W. K.
Clifford. Back step, Half step, etc. See under Back, Half, etc.
 -- Step grate, a form of grate for holding fuel, in which the bars
rise above one another in the manner of steps.
 -- To take steps, to take action; to move in a matter.

STEP-
Step-. Etym: [AS. steop-; akin to OFries. stiap-, stiep-, D. & G.
stief-, OHG. stiuf-, Icel. stj, Sw. styf-, and to AS. astepan,
asteopan, to deprive, bereave, as children of their parents, OHG.
stiufen.]

Defn: A prefix used before father, mother, brother, sister, son,
daughter, child, etc., to indicate that the person thus spoken of is
not a blood relative, but is a relative by the marriage of a parent;
as, a stepmother to X is the wife of the father of X, married by him
after the death of the mother of X. See Stepchild, Stepdaughter,
Stepson, etc.

STEPBROTHER
Step"broth`er, n.

Defn: A brother by the marriage of one's father with the mother of
another, or of one's mother with the father of another.

STEPCHILD
Step"child`, n. Etym: [AS. steopcild.]

1. A bereaved child; one who has lost father or mother. [Obs.]

2. A son or daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.

STEPDAME
Step"dame`, n.

Defn: A stepmother. Spenser.

STEPDAUGHTER
Step"daugh`ter, n. Etym: [AS. steopdohtor.]

Defn: A daughter of one's wife or husband by a former marriage.

STEP-DOWN
Step"-down`, a. (Elec.)

Defn: Transforming or converting a current of high potential or
pressure into one of low pressure; as, a step-down transformer.

STEPFATHER
Step"fa`ther, n. Etym: [AS. steopf?der.]

Defn: The husband of one's mother by a subsequent marriage.

STEPHANION
Ste*pha"ni*on, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The point on the side of the skull where the temporal line, or
upper edge of the temporal fossa, crosses the coronal suture.

STEPHANITE
Steph"an*ite, n. Etym: [So named after the Archduke Stephan, mining
director of Austria.] (Min.)

Defn: A sulphide of antimony and silver of an iron-black color and
metallic luster; called also black silver, and brittle silver ore.

STEPHANOTIS
Steph`a*no"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of climbing asclepiadaceous shrubs, of Madagascar,
Malaya, etc. They have fleshy or coriaceous opposite leaves, and
large white waxy flowers in cymes.

2. A perfume said to be prepared from the flowers of Stephanotis
floribunda.

STEPLADDER
Step"lad`der, n.

Defn: A portable set of steps.

STEPMOTHER
Step"moth`er, n. Etym: [AS. steopmoder.]

Defn: The wife of one's father by a subsequent marriage.

STEPPARENT
Step"par`ent, n.

Defn: Stepfather or stepmother.

STEPPE
Steppe, n. Etym: [From Russ. stepe, through G. or F. steppe.]

Defn: One of the vast plains in Southeastern Europe and in Asia,
generally elevated, and free from wood, analogous to many of the
prairies in Western North America. See Savanna. Steppe murrain.
(Far.) See Rinderpest.

STEPPED
Stepped, a.

Defn: Provided with a step or steps; having a series of offsets or
parts resembling the steps of stairs; as, a stepped key. Stepped
gear, a cogwheel of which the teeth cross the face in a series of
steps.

STEPPER
Step"per, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, steps; as, a quick stepper.

STEPPING-STONE
Step"ping-stone`, n.

1. A stone to raise the feet above the surface of water or mud in
walking.

2. Fig.: A means of progress or advancement.
These obstacles his genius had turned into stepping-stones. Macaulay.
That men may rise on stepping-stones Of their dead selves to higher
things. Tennyson.

STEPSISTER
Step"sis`ter, n.

Defn: A daughter of one's stepfather or stepmother by a former
marriage.

STEPSON
Step"son`, n. Etym: [AS. steopsunu.]

Defn: A son of one's husband or wife by a former marriage.

STEPSTONE
Step"stone`, n.

Defn: A stone laid before a door as a stair to rise on in entering
the house.

STEP-UP
Step"-up`, a. (Elec.)

Defn: Transforming or converting a low-pressure current into one of
high pressure; as, a step-up transformer.

-STER
-ster. Etym: [OE. & AS. -estre, -istre.]

Defn: A suffix denoting the agent (originally a woman), especially a
person who does something with skill or as an occupation; as in
spinster (originally, a woman who spins), songster, baxter (=
bakester), youngster.

Note: Brewing, baking, and weaving were formerly feminine labors, and
consequently brewster, baxter, and webster meant, originally, the
woman (not the man) who brews, bakes, or weaves. When men began to
perform these duties the feminine appellations were retained.

STERCOBILIN
Ster`co*bi"lin, n. Etym: [L. stercus dung + E. bilin.] (Physiol.
Chem.)

Defn: A coloring matter found in the f?ces, a product of the
alteration of the bile pigments in the intestinal canal, -- identical
with hydrobilirubin.

STERCOLIN
Ster"co*lin, n. Etym: [L. stercus dung + oleum oil.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Serolin (b).

STERCORACEOUS
Ster`co*ra"ceous, a. Etym: [L. stercus, -oris, dung.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to dung; partaking of the nature of, or
containing, dung.

STERCORANISM
Ster"co*ra*nism, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists.

STERCORANIST
Ster"co*ra*nist, n. Etym: [LL. stercoranista, fr. L. stercus, -oris,
dung.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A nickname formerly given to those who held, or were alleged to
hold, that the consecrated elements in the eucharist undergo the
process of digestion in the body of the recipient.

STERCORARIAN
Ster`co*ra"ri*an, n.

Defn: A Stercoranist.

STERCORARY
Ster"co*ra*ry, n. Etym: [LL. stercorarium, from L. stercorarius
belonging to dung.]

Defn: A place, properly secured from the weather, for containing
dung.

STERCORATE
Ster"co*rate, n.

Defn: Excrement; dung. [Obs.]

STERCORATION
Ster`co*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. stercoratio, from stercorare to dung.]

Defn: Manuring with dung. [Obs.] Bacon.

STERCORIANISM
Ster*co"ri*an*ism, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: The doctrine or belief of the Stercoranists.

STERCORIN
Ster"co*rin, n. Etym: [L. stercus, -oris, dung.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Serolin (b).

STERCORY
Ster"co*ry, n.

Defn: Excrement; dung. [Obs.]

STERCULIACEOUS
Ster*cu`li*a"ceous, a. Etym: [NL. Sterculia, the typical genus, fr.
L. Sterculius the deity that presided over manuring, from stercus
dung. So called because one of the original species is fetid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sterculiace?) of
polypetalous exogenous plants, mostly tropical. The cacao (Theobroma
Cacao) is the most useful plant of the order.

STERE
Stere, n. Etym: [F. stere, fr. Gr.

Defn: A unit of cubic measure in the metric system, being a cubic
meter, or kiloliter, and equal to 35.3 cubic feet, or nearly 1

STERE
Stere, v. t. & i.

Defn: To stir. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STERE
Stere, n.

Defn: A rudder. See 5th Steer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STERE
Stere, n.

Defn: Helmsman. See 6th Steer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STERELMINTHA
Ster`el*min"tha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. stereo`s solid + (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Platyelminthes.

STEREO-
Ste"re*o-. Etym: [Gr. stereo`s solid. See Stare to gaze.]

Defn: A combining form meaning solid, hard, firm, as in stereo-
chemistry, stereography.

STEREOBATE
Ste"re*o*bate, n. Etym: [Gr. stereo`s solid + stereobate.] (Arch.)

Defn: The lower part or basement of a building or pedestal; -- used
loosely for several different forms of basement.

STEREO-CHEMIC; STEREO-CHEMICAL
Ste`re*o-chem"ic, Ste`re*o-chem"ic*al, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or illustrating, the hypothetical space
relations of atoms in the molecule; as, a stereo-chemic formula.

STEREO-CHEMISTRY
Ste`re*o-chem"is*try, n. Etym: [Stereo- + chemistry.] (Chem.)

Defn: Chemistry considered with reference to the space relations of
atoms.

STEREOCHROME
Ste"re*o*chrome, n.

Defn: Stereochromic picture.

STEREOCHROMIC
Ste`re*o*chro"mic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the art of stereochromy; produced by
stereochromy.
 -- Ste`re*o*chro"mic*al*ly, adv.

STEREOCHROMY
Ste`re*och"ro*my, n. Etym: [Stereo- + Gr. chrw^ma color.]

Defn: A style of painting on plastered walls or stone, in which the
colors are rendered permanent by sprinklings of water, in which is
mixed a proportion of soluble glass (a silicate of soda).

STEREOELECTRIC
Ste`re*o*e*lec"tric, a. Etym: [Stereo- + electric.] (Physics)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the generation of electricity by means of
solid bodies alone; as, a stereoelectric current is one obtained by
means of solids, without any liquid.

STEREOGRAM
Ste"re*o*gram, n. Etym: [Stereo- + -gram.]

Defn: A diagram or picture which represents objects in such a way as
to give the impression of relief or solidity; also, a stereograph.

STEREOGRAPH
Ste"re*o*graph, n. Etym: [Stereo- + -graph.]

Defn: Any picture, or pair of pictures, prepared for exhibition in
the stereoscope. Stereographs are now commonly made by means of
photography.

STEREOGRAPHIC; STEREOGRAPHICAL
Ste`re*o*graph"ic, Ste`re*o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
stereographique.]

Defn: Made or done according to the rules of stereography; delineated
on a plane; as, a stereographic chart of the earth. Stereographic
projection (Geom.), a method of representing the sphere in which the
center of projection is taken in the surface of the sphere, and the
plane upon which the projection is made is at right andles to the
diameter passing through the center of projection.

STEREOGRAPHICALLY
Ste`re*o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stereographical manner; by delineation on a plane.

STEREOGRAPHY
Ste`re*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Stereo- + graphy: cf. F. stereographie.]

Defn: The art of delineating the forms of solid bodies on a plane; a
branch of solid geometry which shows the construction of all solids
which are regularly defined.

Note: By cutting pieces of cardboard, or other suitable material, in
the forms represented in the cut, folding them along the lines
indicated, and joining their edges, the five regular solids may be
formed.

STEREOMETER
Ste`re*om"e*ter, n. Etym: [Stereo- + meter.] (Physics)

1. An instrument for measuring the solid contents of a body, or the
capacity of a vessel; a volumenometer.

2. An instrument for determining the specific gravity of liquid
bodies, porous bodies, and powders, as well as solids.

STEREOMETRIC; STEREOMETRICAL
Ste`re*o*met"ric, Ste`re*o*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
stereometrique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to stereometry; performed or obtained by
stereometry.
 -- Ste`re*o*met"ric*al*ly, adv.

STEREOMETRY
Ste`re*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Stereo- + -metry: cf. F. stereometrie.]

Defn: The art of measuring and computing the cubical contents of
bodies and figures; -- distinguished from planimetry.

STEREOMONOSCOPE
Ste`re*o*mon"o*scope, n. Etym: [Stereo- + mono- + -scope.]

Defn: An instrument with two lenses, by which an image of a single
picture projected upon a screen of ground glass is made to present an
appearance of relief, and may be viewed by several persons at once.

STEREOPLASM
Ste"re*o*plasm, n. Etym: [Stereo- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: The solid or insoluble portion of the cell protoplasm. See
Hygroplasm.

STEREOPTICON
Ste`re*op"ti*con, n. Etym: [NL. See Stereo-, and Optic.]

Defn: An instrument, consisting essentially of a magic lantern in
which photographic pictures are used, by which the image of a
landscape, or any object, may be thrown upon a screen in such a
manner as to seem to stand out in relief, so as to form a striking
and accurate representation of the object itself; also, a pair of
magic lanterns for producing the effect of dissolving views.

STEREOSCOPE
Ste"re*o*scope, n. Etym: [Stereo- + -scope.]

Defn: An optical instrument for giving to pictures the appearance of
solid forms, as seen in nature. It combines in one, through a bending
of the rays of light, two pictures, taken for the purpose from points
of view a little way apart. It is furnished with two eyeglasses, and
by refraction or reflection the pictures are superimposed, so as to
appear as one to the observer.

Note: In the reflecting stereoscope, the rays from the two pictures
are turned into the proper direction for stereoscopic vision by two
plane mirrors set at an angle with each other, and between the
pictures. In the lenticular stereoscope, the form in general use, the
eyeglasses are semilenses, or marginal portions of the same convex
lenses, set with their edges toward each other, so that they deflect
the rays coming from the picture so as to strike the eyes as if
coming direct from an intermediate point, where the two pictures are
seen apparently as one.

STEREOSCOPIC; STEREOSCOPICAL
Ste`re*o*scop"ic, Ste`re*o*scop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the stereoscope; characteristic of, or
adapted to, the stereoscope; as, a stereoscopic effect; the
stereoscopic function of the eyeglasses; stereoscopic views.
 -- Ste`re*o*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.

STEREOSCOPIST
Ste`re*os"co*pist, n.

Defn: One skilled in the use or construction of stereoscopes.

STEREOSCOPY
Ste`re*os"co*py, n.

Defn: The art or science of using the stereoscope, or of constructing
the instrument or the views used with it.

STEREOSTATIC
Ste`re*o*stat"ic, a. Etym: [Stereo- + static.] (Civil. Engin.)

Defn: Geostatic.

STEREOTOMIC; STEREOTOMICAL
Ste`re*o*tom"ic, Ste`re*o*tom"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stereotomy; performed by stereotomy.

STEREOTOMY
Ste`re*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [Stereo- + Gr. stereotomie.]

Defn: The science or art of cutting solids into certain figures or
sections, as arches, and the like; especially, the art of
stonecutting.

STEREOTYPE
Ste"re*o*type, n. Etym: [Stereo- + -type: cf. F. stereotype.]

1. A plate forming an exact faximile of a page of type or of an
engraving, used in printing books, etc.; specifically, a plate with
type-metal face, used for printing.

Note: A stereotype, or stereotypr plate, is made by setting movable
type as for ordinary printing; from these a cast is taken in plaster
of Paris, paper pulp, or the like, and upon this cast melted type
metal is poured, which, when hardened, makes a solid page or column,
from which the impression is taken as from type.

2. The art or process of making such plates, or of executing work by
means of them. Stereotype block, a block, usually of wood, to which a
stereotype plate is attached while being used in printing.

STEREOTYPE
Ste"re*o*type, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stereotyped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stereotyping.] Etym: [Cf. F. stereotyper.]

1. To prepare for printing in stereotype; to make the stereotype
plates of; as, to stereotype the Bible.

2. Fig.: To make firm or permanent; to fix.
Powerful causes tending to stereotype and aggravate the poverty of
old conditions. Duke of Argyll (1887).

STEREOTYPED
Ste"re*o*typed, a.

1. Formed into, or printed from, stereotype plates.

2. Fig.: Formed in a fixed, unchangeable manner; as, stereotyped
opinions.
Our civilization, with its stereotyped ways and smooth
conventionalities. J. C. Shairp.

STEREOTYPER
Ste"re*o*ty`per, n.

Defn: One who stereotypes; one who makes stereotype plates, or works
in a stereotype foundry.

STEREOTYPERY
Ste"re*o*ty`per*y, n.

1. The art, process, or employment of making stereotype plates.

2. A place where stereotype plates are made; a stereotype foundry.

STEREOTYPIC
Ste`re*o*typ"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stereotype, or stereotype plates.

STEREOTYPIST
Ste"re*o*ty`pist, n.

Defn: A stereotyper.

STEREOTYPOGRAPHER
Ste`re*o*ty*pog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: A stereotype printer.

STEREOTYPOGRAPHY
Ste`re*o*ty*pog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Stereo- + typography.]

Defn: The act or art of printing from stereotype plates.

STEREOTYPY
Ste"re*o*ty`py, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stereotypie.]

Defn: The art or process of making stereotype plates.

STERHYDRAULIC
Ster`hy*drau"lic, a. Etym: [Stereo- + hydraulic.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a kind of hydraulic press;
resembling such a press in action or principle. Sterhydraulic press,
an hydraulic press producing pressure or motion by the introduction
of a solid substance (as a long rod, or a cord wound on a roller)
into a cylinder previously filled with a liquid.

STERILE
Ster"ile, a. Etym: [F. sterile, L. sterilis, akin to Gr. stereo`s
stiff, solid, stei^ros barren, stei^ra a cow that has not calved,
Goth. stairo, fem., barren. See Stare to gaze.]

1. Producing little or no crop; barren; unfruitful; unproductive; not
fertile; as, sterile land; a sterile desert; a sterile year.

2. (Biol.)
(a) Incapable of reproduction; unfitted for reproduction of
offspring; not able to germinate or bear fruit; unfruitful; as, a
sterile flower, which bears only stamens.
(b) Free from reproductive spores or germs; as, a sterile fluid.

3. Fig.: Barren of ideas; destitute of sentiment; as, a sterile
production or author.

STERILITY
Ste*ril"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. sterilitas: cf. F. sterilite.]

1. The quality or condition of being sterile.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Quality of being sterile; infecundity; also, the state of being
free from germs or spores.

STERILIZATION
Ster`il*i*za"tion, n. (Biol.)

Defn: The act or process of sterilizing, or rendering sterile; also,
the state of being sterile.

STERILIZE
Ster"il*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sterilized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sterilizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. steriliser.]

1. To make sterile or unproductive; to impoverish, as land; to
exhaust of fertility. [R.] "Sterilizing the earth." Woodward.

2. (Biol.)
(a) To deprive of the power of reproducing; to render incapable of
germination or fecundation; to make sterile.
(b) To destroy all spores or germs in (an organic fluid or mixture),
as by heat, so as to prevent the development of bacterial or other
organisms.

STERILIZER
Ster"il*i`zer, n.

Defn: One that sterilizes anything; specif., an apparatus for
sterilizing an organic fluid or mixture.

STERLET
Ster"let, n. Etym: [Russ. sterliade.] (Zool.)

Defn: A small sturgeon (Acipenser ruthenus) found in the Caspian Sea
and its rivers, and highly esteemed for its flavor. The finest
caviare is made from its roe.

STERLING
Ster"ling, n. (Engin.)

Defn: Same as Starling, 3.

STERLING
Ster"ling, n. Etym: [OE. sterlynge, starling, for easterling, LL.
esterlingus, probably from Easterling, once the popular name of
German trades in England, whose money was of the purest quality: cf.
MHG. sterlink a certain coin. Cf. East. "Certain merchants of
Norwaie, Denmarke, and of others those parties, called Ostomanni, or
(as in our vulgar language we tearme them), easterlings, because they
lie east in respect of us." Holinshed. "In the time of . . . King
Richard the First, monie coined in the east parts of Germanie began
to be of especiall request in England for the puritie thereof, and
was called Easterling monie, as all inhabitants of those parts were
called Easterlings, and shortly after some of that countrie, skillful
in mint matters and allaies, were sent for into this realme to bring
the coine to perfection; which since that time was called of them
sterling, for Easterling." Camden. "Four thousand pound of
sterlings." R. of Gloucester.]

1. Any English coin of standard value; coined money.
So that ye offer nobles or sterlings. Chaucer.
And Roman wealth in English sterling view. Arbuthnot.

2. A certain standard of quality or value for money.
Sterling was the known and approved standard in England, in all
probability, from the beginning of King Henry the Second's reign. S.
M. Leake.

STERLING
Ster"ling, a.

1. Belonging to, or relating to, the standard British money of
account, or the British coinage; as, a pound sterling; a shilling
sterling; a penny sterling; -- now chiefly applied to the lawful
money of England; but sterling cost, sterling value, are used. "With
sterling money." Shak.

2. Genuine; pure; of excellent quality; conforming to the highest
standard; of full value; as, a work of sterling merit; a man of
sterling good sense.

STERN
Stern, n. Etym: [AS. stearn a kind of bird. See Starling.] (Zool.)

Defn: The black tern.

STERN
Stern, a. [Compar. Sterner; superl. Sternest.] Etym: [OE. sterne,
sturne, AS. styrne; cf. D. stuurish stern, Sw. stursk refractory.
*166.]

Defn: Having a certain hardness or severity of nature, manner, or
aspect; hard; severe; rigid; rigorous; austere; fixed; unchanging;
unrelenting; hence, serious; resolute; harsh; as, a sternresolve; a
stern necessity; a stern heart; a stern gaze; a stern decree.
The sterne wind so loud gan to rout. Chaucer.
I would outstare the sternest eyes that look. Shak.
When that the poor have cried, C?sar hath wept; Ambition should be
made of sterner stuff. Shak.
Stern as tutors, and as uncles hard. Dryden.
These barren rocks, your stern inheritance. Wordsworth.

Syn.
 -- Gloomy; sullen; forbidding; strict; unkind; hard-hearted;
unfeeling; cruel; pitiless.

STERN
Stern, n. Etym: [Icel. stjorn a steering, or a doubtful AS. steorn.
*166. See Steer, v. t.]

1. The helm or tiller of a vessel or boat; also, the rudder. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The after or rear end of a ship or other vessel, or of a boat;
the part opposite to the stem, or prow.

3. Fig.: The post of management or direction.
And sit chiefest stern of public weal. Shak.

4. The hinder part of anything. Spenser.

5. The tail of an animal; -- now used only of the tail of a dog. By
the stern. (Naut.) See By the head, under By.

STERN
Stern, a.

Defn: Being in the stern, or being astern; as, the stern davits.
Stern board (Naut.), a going or falling astern; a loss of way in
making a tack; as, to make a stern board. See Board, n., 8 (b).
 -- Stern chase. (Naut.) (a) See under Chase, n. (b) A stern chaser.
 -- Stern chaser (Naut.), a cannon placed in a ship's stern, pointing
backward, and intended to annoy a ship that is in pursuit.
 -- Stern fast (Naut.), a rope used to confine the stern of a ship or
other vessel, as to a wharf or buoy.
 -- Stern frame (Naut.), the framework of timber forms the stern of a
ship.
 -- Stern knee. See Sternson.
 -- Stern port (Naut.), a port, or opening, in the stern of a ship.
 -- Stern sheets (Naut.), that part of an open boat which is between
the stern and the aftmost seat of the rowers, -- usually furnished
with seats for passengers.
 -- Stern wheel, a paddle wheel attached to the stern of the
steamboat which it propels.stern wheeler.

STERNAGE
Stern"age, n.

Defn: Stern. [R.] Shak.

STERNAL
Ster"nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sternum; in the region of the sternum.
Sternal ribs. See the Note under Rib, n., 1.

STERNBERGITE
Stern"berg*ite, n. Etym: [So named after Count Kaspar Sternberg of
Prague.] (Min.)

Defn: A sulphide of silver and iron, occurring in soft flexible
lamin? varying in color from brown to black.

STERNEBRA
Ster"ne*bra, n.; pl. Sternebr?. Etym: [NL., fr. sternum + -bra of
vertebra.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the segments of the sternum.
 -- Ster"ne*bral, a.

STERNED
Sterned, a.

Defn: Having a stern of a particular shape; -- used in composition;
as, square-sterned.

STERNER
Stern"er, n. Etym: [See 3d Stern.]

Defn: A director. [Obs. & R.] Dr. R. Clerke.

STERNFOREMOST
Stern`fore"most`, adv.

Defn: With the stern, instead of the bow, in advance; hence,
figuratively, in an awkward, blundering manner.
A fatal genius for going sternforemost. Lowell.

STERNITE
Ster"nite, n. Etym: [From Sternum.] (Zool.)

Defn: The sternum of an arthropod somite.

STERNLY
Stern"ly, adv.

Defn: In a stern manner.

STERNMOST
Stern"most`, a.

Defn: Farthest in the rear; farthest astern; as, the sternmost ship
in a convoy.

STERNNESS
Stern"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stern.

STERNO-
Ster"no-.

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,
or relation to, the sternum; as, sternocostal, sternoscapular.

STERNOCORACOID
Ster`no*cor"a*coid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sternum and the coracoid.

STERNOCOSTAL
Ster`no*cos"tal, a. Etym: [Sterno- + costal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sternum and the ribs; as, the
sternocostal cartilages.

STERNOHYOID
Ster`no*hy"oid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sternum and the hyoid bone or
cartilage.

STERNOMASTOID
Ster`no*mas"toid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sternum and the mastoid process.

STERNOTHYROID
Ster`no*thy"roid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sternum and the thyroid cartilage.

STERNPOST
Stern"post`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A straight piece of timber, or an iron bar or beam, erected on
the extremity of the keel to support the rudder, and receive the ends
of the planks or plates of the vessel.

STERNSMAN
Sterns"man, n.

Defn: A steersman. [Obs.]

STERNSON
Stern"son, n. Etym: [See Stern, n., and cf. Stemson.] (Naut.)

Defn: The end of a ship's keelson, to which the sternpost is bolted;
-- called also stern knee.

STERNUM
Ster"num, n.; pl. L. Sterna, E. Sternums. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A plate of cartilage, or a series of bony or cartilaginous
plates or segments, in the median line of the pectoral skeleton of
most vertebrates above fishes; the breastbone.

Note: The sternum is connected with the ribs or the pectorial girdle,
or with both. In man it is a flat bone, broad anteriorly, narrowed
behind, and connected with the clavicles and the cartilages of the
seven anterior pairs of ribs. In most birds it has a high median keel
for the attachment of the muscles of the wings.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The ventral part of any one of the somites of an arthropod.

STERNUTATION
Ster`nu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. sternutatio, fr. sternutare to sneeze,
intens. from sternuere.]

Defn: The act of sneezing. Quincy.

STERNUTATIVE
Ster*nu"ta*tive, a.

Defn: Having the quality of provoking to sneeze.

STERNUTATORY
Ster*nu"ta*to*ry, a.

Defn: Sternutative.
 -- n.

Defn: A sternutatory substance or medicine.

STERNWAY
Stern"way`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The movement of a ship backward, or with her stern foremost.

STERN-WHEEL
Stern"-wheel`, a.

Defn: Having a paddle wheel at the stern; as, a stern-wheel steamer.

STERN-WHEELER
Stern"-wheel`er, n.

Defn: A steamboat having a stern wheel instead of side wheels.
[Colloq. U.S.]

STERQUILINOUS
Ster*quil"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. sterquilinium a dung pit, fr. stercus
dung.]

Defn: Pertaining to a dunghill; hence, mean; dirty; paltry. [Obs.]
Howell.

STERRE
Ster"re, n.

Defn: A star. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STERRINK
Ster"rink, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The crab-eating seal (Lobodon carcinophaga) of the Antarctic
Ocean.

STERROMETAL
Ster"ro*met`al, n. Etym: [Gr. metal.]

Defn: Any alloy of copper, zinc, tin, and iron, of which cannon are
sometimes made.

STERT
Stert, obs. p. p. of Start.

Defn: Started. Chaucer.

STERTE
Ster"te, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Start. Chaucer.

STERTORIOUS
Ster*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Stertorous. [R.]

STERTOROUS
Ster"to*rous, a. Etym: [L. stertere to snore: cf. F. stertoreux.]

Defn: Characterized by a deep snoring, which accompaines inspiration
in some diseases, especially apoplexy; hence, hoarsely breathing;
snoring.
Burning, stertorous breath that hurt her cheek. Mrs. Browning.
The day has ebbed away, and it is night in his room, before his
stertorous breathing lulls. Dickens.

STERVE
Sterve, v. t. & i.

Defn: To die, or cause to die; to perish. See Starve. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Spenser.

STET
Stet, Etym: L., subj. 3d pers. sing. of stare to stand, remain. Etym:
[See Stand.] (Print.)

Defn: Let it stand; -- a word used by proof readers to signify that
something once erased, or marked for omission, is to remain.

STET
Stet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stetted; p. pr. & vb. n. Stetting.]
(Print.)

Defn: To cause or direct to remain after having been marked for
omission; to mark with the word stet, or with a series of dots below
or beside the matter; as, the proof reader stetted a deled footnote.

STETHAL
Steth"al, n. Etym: [Stearic + ethal.] (Chem.)

Defn: One of the higher alcohols of the methane series, homologous
with ethal, and found in small quantities as an ethereal salt of
stearic acid in spermaceti.

STETHOGRAPH
Steth"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Physiol.)

Defn: See Pneumatograph.

STETHOMETER
Ste*thom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An apparatus for measuring the external movements of a given
point of the chest wall, during respiration; -- also called
thoracometer.

STETHOSCOPE
Steth"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope: cf. F. stethoscope.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument used in auscultation for examining the organs of
the chest, as the heart and lungs, by conveying to the ear of the
examiner the sounds produced in the thorax.

STETHOSCOPE
Steth"o*scope, v. t.

Defn: To auscultate, or examine, with a stethoscope. M. W. Savage.

STETHOSCOPIC; STETHOSCOPICAL
Steth`o*scop"ic, Steth`o*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
stethoscopique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a stethoscope; obtained or made by means of
a stethoscope.
 -- Steth`o*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.

STETHOSCOPIST
Ste*thos"co*pist, n.

Defn: One skilled in the use of the stethoscope.

STETHOSCOPY
Ste*thos"co*py, n.

Defn: The art or process of examination by the stethoscope.

STEVE
Steve, v. t. Etym: [See Stevedore.]

Defn: To pack or stow, as cargo in a ship's hold. See Steeve.

STEVEDORE
Ste"ve*dore`, n. Etym: [Sp. estivador a packer, a stower, fr. estivar
to pack, to stow, L. stipare to press, compress, probably akin to E.
stiff. See Stiff, Stive to stuff.]

Defn: One whose occupation is to load and unload vessels in port; one
who stows a cargo in a hold.

STEVEN
Ste"ven, n. Etym: [AS. stefn, stemn, voice; akin to D. stem, G.
stimme, Goth. stibna.]

1. Voice; speech; language. [Obs. or Scot.]
Ye have as merry a steven As any angel hath that is in heaven.
Chaucer.

2. An outcry; a loud call; a clamor. [Obs.] Spenser. To set steven,
to make an appointment. [Obs.]
They setten steven for to meet To playen at the dice. Chaucer.

STEW
Stew, n. Etym: [Cf. Stow.]

1. A small pond or pool where fish are kept for the table; a
vivarium. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer. Evelyn.

2. An artificial bed of oysters. [Local, U.S.]

STEW
Stew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stewed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stewing.] Etym:
[OE. stuven, OF. estuver, F. etuver, fr. OF. estuve, F. etuve, a
sweating house, a room heated for a bath; probably of Teutonic
origin, and akin to E. stove. See Stove, and cf. Stive to stew.]

Defn: To boil slowly, or with the simmering or moderate heat; to
seethe; to cook in a little liquid, over a gentle fire, without
boiling; as, to stew meat; to stew oysters; to stew apples.

STEW
Stew, v. i.

Defn: To be seethed or cooked in a slow, gentle manner, or in heat
and moisture.

STEW
Stew, n. Etym: [OE. stue, stuwe, OF. estuve. See Stew, v. t.]

1. A place of stewing or seething; a place where hot bathes are
furnished; a hothouse. [Obs.]
As burning ?tna from his boiling stew Doth belch out flames. Spenser.
The Lydians were inhibited by Cyrus to use any armor, and give
themselves to baths and stews. Abp. Abbot.

2. A brothel; -- usually in the plural. Bacon. South.
There be that hate harlots, and never were at the stews. Aschman.

3. A prostitute. [Obs.] Sir A. Weldon.

4. A dish prepared by stewing; as, a stewof pigeons.

5. A state of agitating excitement; a state of worry; confusion; as,
to be in a stew. [Colloq.]

STEWARD
Stew"ard, n. Etym: [OE. stiward, AS. stiweard, stigweard, literally,
a sty ward; stigu sty + weard warden, guardian, -- his first duty
having been probably to attend to the domestic animals. *164. See Sty
pen for swine, Ward.]

1. A man employed in a large family, or on a large estate, to manage
the domestic concerns, supervise other servants, collect the rents or
income, keep accounts, and the like.
Worthy to be stewards of rent and land. Chaucer.
They came near to the steward of Joseph's house. Gen. xliii. 19.
As good stewards of the manifold grace of God. 1 Pet. iv. 10.

2. A person employed in a hotel, or a club, or on board a ship, to
provide for the table, superintend the culinary affairs, etc. In
naval vessels, the captain's steward, wardroom steward, steerage
steward, warrant officers steward, etc., are petty officers who
provide for the messes under their charge.

3. A fiscal agent of certain bodies; as, a steward in a Methodist
church.

4. In some colleges, an officer who provides food for the students
and superintends the kitchen; also, an officer who attends to the
accounts of the students.

5. In Scotland, a magistrate appointed by the crown to exercise
jurisdiction over royal lands. Erskine. Lord high steward, formerly,
the first officer of the crown; afterward, an officer occasionally
appointed, as for a coronation, or upon the trial of a peer. [Eng.]

STEWARD
Stew"ard, v. t.

Defn: To manage as a steward. [Obs.]

STEWARDESS
Stew"ard*ess, n.

Defn: A female steward; specifically, a woman employed in passenger
vessels to attend to the wants of female passengers.

STEWARDLY
Stew"ard*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner, or with the care, of a steward. [R.]
To be stewardly dispensed, not wastefully spent. Tooker.

STEWARDSHIP
Stew"ard*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a steward. Shak.

STEWARTRY
Stew"art*ry, n.

1. An overseer or superintendent. [R.] "The stewartry of provisions."
Tooke.

2. The office of a steward; stewardship. [R.] Byron.

3. In Scotland, the jurisdiction of a steward; also, the lands under
such jurisdiction.

STEWISH
Stew"ish, a.

Defn: Suiting a stew, or brothel. Bp. Hall.

STEWPAN
Stew"pan`, n.

Defn: A pan used for stewing.

STEWPOT
Stew"pot`, n.

Defn: A pot used for stewing.

STEY
Stey, n.

Defn: See Stee.

STHENIC
Sthen"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. sthenique.] (Med.)

Defn: Strong; active; -- said especially of morbid states attended
with excessive action of the heart and blood vessels, and
characterized by strength and activity of the muscular and nervous
system; as, a sthenic fever. Sthenic theory. See Stimulism (a).

STIACCIATO
Sti*ac*cia"to, n. Etym: [It., crushed, flattened.] (Sculp.)

Defn: The lowest relief, -- often used in Italian sculpture of the
15th and 16th centuries.

STIAN
Sti"an, n.

Defn: A sty on the eye. See Styan.

STIBBORN
Stib"born, a.

Defn: Stubborn. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STIBIAL
Stib"i*al, a. Etym: [See Stibium.]

Defn: Like, or having the qualities of, antimony; antimonial.

STIBIALISM
Stib"i*al*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: Antimonial intoxication or poisoning. Dunglison.

STIBIATED
Stib"i*a`ted, a. Etym: [NL. stibiatus, from L. stibium antimony.]
(Med. Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with antimony (stibium). Stibiated
tartar. See Tartar emetic, under Tartar.

STIBIC
Stib"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Antimonic; -- used with reference to certain compounds of
antimony.

STIBICONITE
Stib"i*co*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A native oxide of antimony occurring in masses of a yellow
color.

STIBINE
Stib"ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Antimony hydride, or hydrogen antimonide, a colorless gas
produced by the action of nascent hydrogen on antimony. It has a
characteristic odor and burns with a characteristic greenish flame.
Formerly called also antimoniureted hydrogen.

STIBIOUS
Stib"i*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Antimonious. [R.]

STIBIUM
Stib"i*um, n. Etym: [L. stibium, stibi, Gr.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: The technical name of antimony.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Stibnite. [Obs.]

STIBNITE
Stib"nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a lead-gray color and brilliant metallic luster,
occurring in prismatic crystals; sulphide of antimony; -- called also
antimony glance, and gray antimony.

STIBONIUM
Sti*bo"ni*um, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical radical SbH4, analogous to ammonium; -- called
also antimonium.

STICCADO
Stic*ca"do, n. Etym: [Cf. It. steccato a palisade.] (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument consisting of small bars of wood, flat at the
bottom and rounded at the top, and resting on the edges of a kind of
open box. They are unequal in size, gradually increasing from the
smallest to the largest, and are tuned to the diatonic scale. The
tones are produced by striking the pieces of wood with hard balls
attached to flexible sticks.

STICH
Stich, n. Etym: [Gr. sti`chos a row, line, akin to to go, march, E.
sty, v.i.]

1. A verse, of whatever measure or number of feet.

2. A line in the Scriptures; specifically (Hebrew Scriptures), one of
the rhythmic lines in the poetical books and passages of the Old
Treatment, as written in the oldest Hebrew manuscripts and in the
Revised Version of the English Bible.

3. A row, line, or rank of trees.

STICHIC
Stich"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. stichiko`s.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to stichs, or lines; consisting of stichs, or
lines. [R.]

STICHIDIUM
Sti*chid"i*um, n.; pl. Stichida. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A special podlike or fusiform branch containing tetraspores. It
is found in certain red alg?.

STICHOMANCY
Stich"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by lines, or passages of books, taken at hazard.

STICHOMETRICAL
Stich`o*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stichometry; characterized by stichs, or
lines.

STICHOMETRY
Stich*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

1. Measurement of books by the number of lines which they contain.

2. Division of the text of a book into lines; especially, the
division of the text of books into lines accommodated to the sense, -
- a method of writing manuscripts used before punctuation was
adopted.

STICHWORT
Stich"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of chickweed (Stellaria Holostea). [Written also
stitchwort.]

STICK
Stick, n. Etym: [OE. sticke, AS. sticca; akin to stician to stab,
prick, pierce, G. stecken a stick, staff, OHG. steccho, Icel. stik a
stick. See Stick, v. t..]

1. A small shoot, or branch, separated, as by a cutting, from a tree
or shrub; also, any stem or branch of a tree, of any size, cut for
fuel or timber.
Withered sticks to gather, which might serve Against a winter's day.
Milton.

2. Any long and comparatively slender piece of wood, whether in
natural form or shaped with tools; a rod; a wand; a staff; as, the
stick of a rocket; a walking stick.

3. Anything shaped like a stick; as, a stick of wax.

4. A derogatory expression for a person; one who is inert or stupid;
as, an odd stick; a poor stick. [Colloq.]

5. (Print.)

Defn: A composing stick. See under Composing. It is usually a frame
of metal, but for posters, handbills, etc., one made of wood is used.

6. A thrust with a pointed instrument; a stab. A stick of eels,
twenty-five eels. [Prov. Eng.] -- Stick chimney, a chimney made of
sticks laid crosswise, and cemented with clay or mud, as in some log
houses. [U.S.] -- Stick insect, (Zool.), any one of various species
of wingless orthopterous insects of the family Phasmid?, which have a
long round body, resembling a stick in form and color, and long legs,
which are often held rigidly in such positions as to make them
resemble small twigs. They thus imitate the branches and twigs of the
trees on which they live. The common American species is Diapheromera
femorata. Some of the Asiatic species are more than a foot long.
 -- To cut one's stick, or To cut stick, to run away. [Slang] De
Quincey.

STICK
Stick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stuck (Obs. Sticked (); p. pr. & vb. n.
Sticking.] Etym: [OE. stikien, v.t. & i., combined with steken,
whence E. stuck), AS. stician, v.t. & i., and (assumed) stecan, v.t.;
akin to OFries. steka, OS. stekan, OHG. stehhan, G. stechen, and to
Gr. tij to be sharp. Cf. Distinguish, Etiquette, Extinct, Instigate,
Instinct, Prestige, Stake, Steak, Stick, n., Stigma, Stimulate,
Sting, Stitch in sewing, Style for or in writing.]

1. To penetrate with a pointed instrument; to pierce; to stab; hence,
to kill by piercing; as, to stick a beast.
And sticked him with bodkins anon. Chaucer.
It was a shame . . . to stick him under the other gentleman's arm
while he was redding the fray. Sir W. Scott.

2. To cause to penetrate; to push, thrust, or drive, so as to pierce;
as, to stick a needle into one's finger.
Thou stickest a dagger in me. Shak.

3. To fasten, attach, or cause to remain, by thrusting in; hence,
also, to adorn or deck with things fastened on as by piercing; as, to
stick a pin on the sleeve.
My shroud of white, stuck all with yew. Shak.
The points of spears are stuck within the shield. Dryden.

4. To set; to fix in; as, to stick card teeth.

5. To set with something pointed; as, to stick cards.

6. To fix on a pointed instrument; to impale; as, to stick an apple
on a fork.

7. To attach by causing to adhere to the surface; as, to stick on a
plaster; to stick a stamp on an envelope; also, to attach in any
manner.

8. (Print.)

Defn: To compose; to set, or arrange, in a composing stick; as, to
stick type. [Cant]

9. (Joinery)

Defn: To run or plane (moldings) in a machine, in contradistinction
to working them by hand. Such moldings are said to be stuck.

10. To cause to stick; to bring to a stand; to pose; to puzzle; as,
to stick one with a hard problem. [Colloq.]

11. To impose upon; to compel to pay; sometimes, to cheat. [Slang] To
stick out, to cause to project or protrude; to render prominent.

STICK
Stick, v. i.

1. To adhere; as, glue sticks to the fingers; paste sticks to the
wall.
The green caterpillar breedeth in the inward parts of roses not
blown, where the dew sticketh. Bacon.

2. To remain where placed; to be fixed; to hold fast to any position
so as to be moved with difficulty; to cling; to abide; to cleave; to
be united closely.
A friend that sticketh closer than a brother. Prov. xviii. 24.
I am a kind of bur; I shall stick. Shak.
If on your fame our sex a bolt has thrown, 'T will ever stick through
malice of your own. Young.

3. To be prevented from going farther; to stop by reason of some
obstacle; to be stayed.
I had most need of blessing, and "Amen" Stuck in my throat. Shak.
The trembling weapon passed Through nine bull hides, . . . and stuck
within the last. Dryden.

4. To be embarrassed or puzzled; to hesitate; to be deterred, as by
scruples; to scruple; -- often with at.
They will stick long at part of a demonstration for want of
perceiving the connection of two ideas. Locke.
Some stick not to say, that the parson and attorney forged a will.
Arbuthnot.

5. To cause difficulties, scruples, or hesitation.
This is the difficulty that sticks with the most reasonable. Swift.
To stick by. (a) To adhere closely to; to be firm in supporting. "We
are your only friends; stick by us, and we will stick by you."
Davenant. (b) To be troublesome by adhering. "I am satisfied to
trifle away my time, rather than let it stick by me." Pope.
 -- To stick out. (a) To project; to be prominent. "His bones that
were not seen stick out." Job xxxiii. 21. (b) To persevere in a
purpose; to hold out; as, the garrison stuck out until relieved.
[Colloq.]v.i. to stick it out.
 -- To stick to, to be persevering in holding to; as, to stick to a
party or cause. "The advantage will be on our side if we stick to its
essentials." Addison.
 -- To stick up, to stand erect; as, his hair sticks up.
 -- To stick up for, to assert and defend; as, to stick up for one's
rights or for a friend. [Colloq.] -- To stick upon, to dwell upon;
not to forsake. "If the matter be knotty, the mind must stop and
buckle to it, and stick upon it with labor and thought." Locke.

STICKED
Stick"ed, obs. imp. of Stick.

Defn: Stuck.
And in the sand her ship sticked so fast. Chaucer.
They sticked not to give their bodies to be burnt. Sir T. Browne.

STICKER
Stick"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, sticks; as, a bill sticker.

2. That which causes one to stick; that which puzzles or poses.
[Colloq.] Tackeray.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: In the organ, a small wooden rod which connects (in part) a key
and a pallet, so as to communicate motion by pushing.

4. Same as Paster, 2. [Political Cant, U.S.]

STICKFUL
Stick"ful, n.; pl. Stickfuls (. (Print.)

Defn: As much set type as fills a composing stick.

STICKINESS
Stick"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sticky; as, the stickiness of glue or
paste.

STICKING
Stick"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Stick, v. Sticking piece, a piece of beef cut from
the neck. [Eng.] -- Sticking place, the place where a thing sticks,
or remains fast; sticking point.
But screw your courage to the sticking place, And we'll not fail.
Shak.
-- Sticking plaster, an adhesive plaster for closing wounds, and for
similar uses.
 -- Sticking point. Same as Sticking place, above.

STICKIT
Stick"it, a.

Defn: Stuck; spoiled in making. [Scot.] Stickit minister, a candidate
for the clerical office who fails, disqualified by incompetency or
immorality.

STICK-LAC
Stick"-lac`, n.

Defn: See the Note under Lac.

STICKLE
Stic"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stickled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stickling.]
Etym: [Probably fr. OE. stightlen, sti, to dispose, arrange, govern,
freq. of stihten, AS. stihtan: cf. G. stiften to found, to
establish.]

1. To separate combatants by intervening. [Obs.]
When he [the angel] sees half of the Christians killed, and the rest
in a fair way of being routed, he stickles betwixt the remainder of
God's host and the race of fiends. Dryden.

2. To contend, contest, or altercate, esp. in a pertinacious manner
on insufficient grounds.
Fortune, as she 's wont, turned fickle, And for the foe began to
stickle. Hudibras.
While for paltry punk they roar and stickle. Dryden.
The obstinacy with which he stickles for the wrong. Hazlitt.

3. To play fast and loose; to pass from one side to the other; to
trim.

STICKLE
Stic"kle, v. t.

1. To separate, as combatants; hence, to quiet, to appease, as
disputants. [Obs.]
Which [question] violently they pursue, Nor stickled would they be.
Drayton.

2. To intervene in; to stop, or put an end to, by intervening; hence,
to arbitrate. [Obs.]
They ran to him, and, pulling him back by force, stickled that
unnatural fray. Sir P. Sidney.

STICKLE
Stic"kle, n. Etym: [Cf. stick, v. t. & i.]

Defn: A shallow rapid in a river; also, the current below a
waterfall. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
Patient anglers, standing all the day Near to some shallow stickle or
deep bay. W. Browne.

STICKLEBACK
Stic"kle*back`, n. Etym: [OE. & Prov E. stickle a prickle, spine,
sting (AS. sticel) + back. See Stick, v. t., and cf. Banstickle.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small fishes of the genus
Gasterosteus and allied genera. The back is armed with two or more
sharp spines. They inhabit both salt and brackish water, and
construct curious nests. Called also sticklebag, sharpling, and
prickleback.

STICKLER
Stic"kler, n. Etym: [See Stickle, v. t.]

Defn: One who stickles. Specifically: --
(a) One who arbitrates a duel; a sidesman to a fencer; a second; an
umpire. [Obs.]
Basilius, the judge, appointed sticklers and trumpets whom the others
should obey. Sir P. Sidney.
Our former chiefs, like sticklers of the war, First sought to inflame
the parties, then to poise. Dryden.

(b) One who pertinaciously contends for some trifling things, as a
point of etiquette; an unreasonable, obstinate contender; as, a
stickler for ceremony.
The Tory or High-church were the greatest sticklers against the
exorbitant proceedings of King James II. Swift.

STICK-SEED
Stick"-seed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Echinospermum Lappula) of the Borage family, with
small blue flowers and prickly nutlets.

STICKTAIL
Stick"tail`, n.

Defn: The ruddy duck. [Local, U.S.]

STICK-TIGHT
Stick"-tight`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Beggar's ticks.

STICKY
Stick"y, a. [Compar. Stickier; superl. Stickiest.]

Defn: Having the quality of sticking to a surface; adhesive; gluey;
viscous; viscid; glutinous; tenacious.
Herbs which last longest are those of strong smell, and with a sticky
stalk. Bacon.

STIDDY
Stid"dy, n. Etym: [See Stithy.]

Defn: An anvil; also, a smith shop. See Stithy. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

STIFF
Stiff, a. [Compar. Stiffer; superl. Stiffest.] Etym: [OE. stif, AS.
stif; akin to D. stijf, G. steif, Dan. stiv, Sw. styf, Icel. stifr,
Lith. stipti to be stiff; cf. L. stipes a post, trunk of a tree,
stipare to press, compress. Cf. Costive, Stifle, Stipulate, Stive to
stuff.]

1. Not easily bent; not flexible or pliant; not limber or flaccid;
rigid; firm; as, stiff wood, paper, joints.
[They] rising on stiff pennons, tower The mid aerial sky. Milton.

2. Not liquid or fluid; thick and tenacious; inspissated; neither
soft nor hard; as, the paste is stiff.

3. Firm; strong; violent; difficult to oppose; as, a stiff gale or
breeze.

4. Not easily subdued; unyielding; stubborn; obstinate; pertinacious;
as, a stiff adversary.
It is a shame to stand stiff in a foolish argument. Jer. Taylor.
A war ensues: the Cretans own their cause, Stiff to defend their
hospitable laws. Dryden.

5. Not natural and easy; formal; constrained; affected; starched; as,
stiff behavior; a stiff style.
The French are open, familiar, and talkative; the Italians stiff,
ceremonious, and reserved. Addison.

6. Harsh; disagreeable; severe; hard to bear. [Obs. or Colloq.] "This
is stiff news." Shak.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: Bearing a press of canvas without careening much; as, a stiff
vessel; -- opposed to crank. Totten.

8. Very large, strong, or costly; powerful; as, a stiff charge; a
stiff price. [Slang] Stiff neck, a condition of the neck such that
the head can not be moved without difficulty and pain.

Syn.
 -- Rigid; inflexible; strong; hardly; stubborn; obstinate;
pertinacious; harsh; formal; constrained; affected; starched;
rigorous.

STIFF-BACKED
Stiff"-backed`, a.

Defn: Obstinate. J. H. Newman.

STIFFEN
Stiff"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stiffened; p. pr. & vb. n. Stiffening.]
Etym: [See Stiff.]

1. tiono make stiff; to make less pliant or flexible; as, to stiffen
cloth with starch.
Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood. Shak.

2. To inspissate; to make more thick or viscous; as, to stiffen
paste.

3. To make torpid; to benumb.

STIFFEN
Stiff"en, v. i.

Defn: To become stiff or stiffer, in any sense of the adjective.
Like bristles rose my stiffening hair. Dryden.
The tender soil then stiffening by degrees. Dryden.
Some souls we see, Grow hard and stiffen with adversity. Dryden.

STIFFENER
Stiff"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stiffens anything, as a piece of stiff
cloth in a cravat.

STIFFENING
Stiff"en*ing, n.

1. Act or process of making stiff.

2. Something used to make anything stiff. Stiffening order (Com.), a
permission granted by the customs department to take cargo or ballast
on board before the old cargo is out, in order to steady the ship.

STIFF-HEARTED
Stiff"-heart`ed, a. Etym: [Stiff + heart.]

Defn: Obstinate; stubborn; contumacious. Ezek. ii. 4.

STIFFISH
Stiff"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat stiff.

STIFFLY
Stiff"ly, adv.

Defn: In a stiff manner.

STIFF-NECKED
Stiff"-necked`, a.

Defn: Stubborn; inflexibly obstinate; contumacious; as, stiff-necked
pride; a stiff-necked people. Ex. xxxii. 9.

STIFF-NECKEDNESS
Stiff"-neck`ed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stiff-necked; stubbornness.

STIFFNESS
Stiff"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stiff; as, the stiffness of cloth
or of paste; stiffness of manner; stiffness of character.
The vices of old age have the stiffness of it too. South.

STIFFTAIL
Stiff"tail`, n.

Defn: The ruddy duck. [Local, U.S.]

STIFF-TAILED
Stiff"-tailed`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the quill feathers of the tail somewhat rigid.

STIFLE
Sti"fle, n. Etym: [From Stiff.] (Far.)

Defn: The joint next above the hock, and near the flank, in the hind
leg of the horse and allied animals; the joint corresponding to the
knee in man; -- called also stifle joint. See Illust. under Horse.
Stifle bone, a small bone at the stifle joint; the patella, or
kneepan.

STIFLE
Sti"fle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stifled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stifling.]
Etym: [Freq. of OE. stif stiff; cf. Icel. stifla to dam up.]

1. To stop the breath of by crowding something into the windpipe, or
introducing an irrespirable substance into the lungs; to choke; to
suffocate; to cause the death of by such means; as, to stifle one
with smoke or dust.
Stifled with kisses, a sweet death he dies. Dryden.
I took my leave, being half stifled with the closeness of the room.
Swift.

2. To stop; to extinguish; to deaden; to quench; as, to stifle the
breath; to stifle a fire or flame.
Bodies . . . stifle in themselves the rays which they do not reflect
or transmit. Sir I. Newton.

3. To suppress the manifestation or report of; to smother; to conceal
from public knowledge; as, to stifle a story; to stifle passion.
I desire only to have things fairly represented as they really are;
no evidence smothered or stifled. Waterland.

STIFLE
Sti"fle, v. i.

Defn: To die by reason of obstruction of the breath, or because some
noxious substance prevents respiration.
You shall stifle in your own report. Shak.

STIFLED
Sti"fled, a.

Defn: Stifling.
The close and stifled study. Hawthorne.

STIFLER
Sti"fler, n.

1. One who, or that which, stifles.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: See Camouflet.

STIGMA
Stig"ma, n.; pl. E. Stigmas, L. Stigmata. Etym: [L., a mark, a brand,
from Gr. Stick, v. t.]

1. A mark made with a burning iron; a brand.

2. Any mark of infamy or disgrace; sign of moral blemish; stain or
reproach caused by dishonorable conduct; reproachful
characterization.
The blackest stigma that can be fastened upon him. Bp. Hall.
All such slaughters were from thence called Bartelmies, simply in a
perpetual stigma of that butchery. Sir G. Buck.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: That part of a pistil which has no epidermis, and is fitted to
receive the pollen. It is usually the terminal portion, and is
commonly somewhat glutinous or viscid. See Illust. of Stamen and of
Flower.

4. (Anat.)

Defn: A small spot, mark, scar, or a minute hole; -- applied
especially to a spot on the outer surface of a Graafian follicle, and
to spots of intercellular substance in scaly epithelium, or to minute
holes in such spots.

5. (Pathol.)

Defn: A red speck upon the skin, produced either by the extravasation
of blood, as in the bloody sweat characteristic of certain varieties
of religious ecstasy, or by capillary congestion, as in the case of
drunkards.

6. (Zool.)
(a) One of the external openings of the trache? of insects,
myriapods, and other arthropods; a spiracle.
(b) One of the apertures of the pulmonary sacs of arachnids. See
Illust. of Scorpion.
(c) One of the apertures of the gill of an ascidian, and of
Amphioxus.

7. (Geom.)

Defn: A point so connected by any law whatever with another point,
called an index, that as the index moves in any manner in a plane the
first point or stigma moves in a determinate way in the same plane.

8. pl. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: Marks believed to have been supernaturally impressed upon the
bodies of certain persons in imitation of the wounds on the crucified
body of Christ. See def. 5, above.

STIGMARIA
Stig*ma"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Stigma.] (Paleon.)

Defn: The fossil root stem of a coal plant of the genus Sigillaria.

STIGMATA
Stig"ma*ta, n.;

Defn: pl. of Stigma.

STIGMATIC
Stig*mat"ic, n.

1. A notorious profligate or criminal who has been branded; one who
bears the marks of infamy or punishment. [R.] Bullokar.

2. A person who is marked or deformed by nature. Shak.

STIGMATIC; STIGMATICAL
Stig*mat"ic, Stig*mat"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Stigma.]

1. Marked with a stigma, or with something reproachful to character.

2. Impressing with infamy or reproach. [R.]

3. (Bot., Anat., etc)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a stigma or stigmata. Stigmatic geometry,
or Stigmatics, that science in which the correspondence of index and
stigma (see Stigma, 7) is made use of to establish geometrical
proportions.

STIGMATICALLY
Stig*mat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With a stigma, or mark of infamy or deformity.

STIGMATIST
Stig"ma*tist, n.

Defn: One believed to be supernaturally impressed with the marks of
Christ's wounds. See Stigma, 8.

STIGMATIZATION
Stig`ma*ti*za"tion, n.

1. The act of stigmatizing.

2. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: The production of stigmata upon the body. See Stigma, 8.

STIGMATIZE
Stig"ma*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stigmatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stigmatizing.] Etym: [F. stigmatiser, Gr.

1. To mark with a stigma, or brand; as, the ancients stigmatized
their slaves and soldiers.
That . . . hold out both their ears with such delight and ravishment,
to be stigmatized and bored through in witness of their own voluntary
and beloved baseness. Milton.

2. To set a mark of disgrace on; to brand with some mark of reproach
or infamy.
To find virtue extolled and vice stigmatized. Addison.

STIGMATOSE
Stig"ma*tose`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Stigmatic.

STIGONOMANCY
Stig"o*no*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by writing on the bark of a tree.

STIKE
Stike, n. Etym: [See Stich.]

Defn: Stanza. [Obs.] Sackville.

STILAR
Sti"lar, a. Etym: [From Stile a style.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the style of a dial. [Written also stylar.]

STILBENE
Stil"bene, n. Etym: [See Stilbite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon, C14H12, produced artificially in large, fine
crystals; -- called also diphenyl ethylene, toluylene, etc.

STILBITE
Stil"bite, n. Etym: [Gr. stilbite.] (Min.)

Defn: A common mineral of the zeolite family, a hydrous silicate of
alumina and lime, usually occurring in sheaflike aggregations of
crystals, also in radiated masses. It is of a white or yellowish
color, with pearly luster on the cleavage surface. Called also
desmine.

STILE
Stile, n. Etym: [See Style.]

1. A pin set on the face of a dial, to cast a shadow; a style. See
Style. Moxon.

2. Mode of composition. See Style. [Obs.]
May I not write in such a stile as this Bunyan.

STILE
Stile, n. Etym: [OE. stile, AS. stigel a step, a ladder, from stigan
to ascend; akin to OHG. stigila a stile. *164. See Sty, v. i., and
cf. Stair.]

1. A step, or set of steps, for ascending and descending, in passing
a fence or wall.
There comes my master . . . over the stile, this way. Shak.
Over this stile in the way to Doubting Castle. Bunyan.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: One of the upright pieces in a frame; one of the primary
members of a frame, into which the secondary members are mortised.

Note: In an ordinary door the principal upright pieces are called
stiles, the subordinate upright pieces mullions, and the crosspieces
rails. In wainscoting the principal pieces are sometimes called
stiles, even when horizontal. Hanging stile, Pulley stile. See under
Hanging, and Pulley.

STILET
Sti"let, n. Etym: [Written also stilette, and stylet.]

1. A stiletto. [R.]

2. (Surg.)

Defn: See Stylet, 2.

STILETTO
Sti*let"to, n.; pl. Stilettos. Etym: [It., dim. of stilo a dagger,
fr. L. stilus a pointed instrument. See Style for writing, and cf.
Stylet.]

1. A kind of dagger with a slender, rounded, and pointed blade.

2. A pointed instrument for making eyelet holes in embroidery.

3. A beard trimmed into a pointed form. [Obs.]
The very quack of fashions, the very he that Wears a stiletto on his
chin. Ford.

STILETTO
Sti*let"to, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stilettoed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stilettoing.]

Defn: To stab or kill with a stiletto. Bacon.

STILL
Still, a. [Compar. Stiller; superl. Stillest.] Etym: [OE. stille, AS.
stille; akin to D. stil, OS. & OHG. stilli, G. still, Dan. stille,
Sw. stilla, and to E. stall; from the idea of coming to a stand, or
halt. Cf. Still, adv.]

1. Motionless; at rest; quiet; as, to stand still; to lie or sit
still. "Still as any stone." Chaucer.

2. Uttering no sound; silent; as, the audience is still; the animals
are still.
The sea that roared at thy command, At thy command was still.
Addison.

3. Not disturbed by noise or agitation; quiet; calm; as, a still
evening; a still atmosphere. "When all the woods are still." Milton.

4. Comparatively quiet or silent; soft; gentle; low. "A still small
voice." 1 Kings xix. 12.

5. Constant; continual. [Obs.]
By still practice learn to know thy meaning. Shak.

6. Not effervescing; not sparkling; as, still wines. Still life.
(Fine Arts) (a) Inanimate objects. (b) (Painting) The class or style
of painting which represents inanimate objects, as fruit, flowers,
dead game, etc.

Syn.
 -- Quiet; calm; noiseless; serene; motionless; inert; stagnant.

STILL
Still, n. Etym: [Cf. G. stille.]

1. Freedom from noise; calm; silence; as, the still of midnight.
[Poetic]

2. A steep hill or ascent. [Obs.] W. Browne.

STILL
Still, adv. Etym: [AS. stille quietly. See Still, a. The modern
senses come from the idea of stopping and staying still, or
motionless.]

1. To this time; until and during the time now present; now no less
than before; yet.
It hath been anciently reported, and is still received. Bacon.

2. In the future as now and before.
Hourly joys be still upon you! Shak.

3. In continuation by successive or repeated acts; always; ever;
constantly; uniformly.
The desire of fame betrays an ambitious man into indecencies that
lessen his reputation; he is still afraid lest any of his actions
should be thrown away in private. Addison.
Chemists would be rich if they could still do in great quantities
what they have sometimes done in little. Boyle.

4. In an increasing or additional degree; even more; -- much used
with comparatives.
The guilt being great, the fear doth still exceed. Shak.

5. Notwithstanding what has been said or done; in spite of what has
occured; nevertheless; -- sometimes used as a conjunction. See
Synonym of But.
As sunshine, broken in the rill, Though turned astray, is sunshine
still. Moore.

6. After that; after what is stated.
In the primitive church, such as by fear being compelled to sacrifice
to strange gods, after repented, and kept still the office of
preaching the gospel. Whitgift.
Still and anon, at intervals and repeatedly; continually; ever and
anon; now and then.
And like the watchful minutes to the hour, Still and anon cheered up
the heavy time. Shak.

STILL
Still, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stilling.] Etym:
[AS. stillan, from stille still, quiet, firm. See Still, a.]

1. To stop, as motion or agitation; to cause to become quiet, or
comparatively quiet; to check the agitation of; as, to still the
raging sea.
He having a full sway over the water, had power to still and compose
it, as well as to move and disturb it. Woodward.

2. To stop, as noise; to silence.
With his name the mothers still their babies. Shak.

3. To appease; to calm; to quiet, as tumult, agitation, or
excitement; as, to still the passions. Shak.
Toil that would, at least, have stilled an unquiet impulse in me.
Hawthorne.

Syn.
 -- To quiet; calm; allay; lull; pacify; appease; subdue; suppress;
silence; stop; check; restrain.

STILL
Still, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. stillatorie. See Still, v., to distill.]

1. A vessel, boiler, or copper used in the distillation of liquids;
specifically, one used for the distillation of alcoholic liquors; a
retort. The name is sometimes applied to the whole apparatus used in
in vaporization and condensation.

2. A house where liquors are distilled; a distillery. Still watcher,
a device for indicating the progress of distillation by the density
of the liquid given over. Knight.

STILL
Still, v. t. Etym: [Abbreviated fr. distill.]

1. To cause to fall by drops.

2. To expel spirit from by heat, or to evaporate and condense in a
refrigeratory; to distill. Tusser.

STILL
Still, v. i. Etym: [L. stillare. Cf. Distill.]

Defn: To drop, or flow in drops; to distill. [Obs.] Spenser.

STILLAGE
Stil"lage, n. (Bleaching)

Defn: A low stool to keep the goods from touching the floor. Knight.

STILLATITIOUS
Stil`la*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. stillaticius, fr. stillare to drop,
stilla a drop.]

Defn: Falling in drops; drawn by a still.

STILLATORY
Stil"la*to*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [From Still, for distill. Cf.
Still, n., and Distillatory, a.]

1. An alembic; a vessel for distillation. [R.] Bacon.

2. A laboratory; a place or room in which distillation is performed.
[R.] Dr. H. More. Sir H. Wotton.

STILLBIRTH
Still"birth`, n.

Defn: The birth of a dead fetus.

STILLBORN
Still"born`, a.

1. Dead at the birth; as, a stillborn child.

2. Fig.: Abortive; as, a stillborn poem. Swift.

STILL-BURN
Still"-burn`, v. t. Etym: [imp. & p. p. still-burnt or Still-burned
(; p. pr. & vb. n. Still-burning.]

Defn: To burn in the process of distillation; as, to still-burn
brandy.

STILL-CLOSING
Still"-clos"ing, a.

Defn: Ever closing. [Obs.] "Still-clothing waters." Shak.

STILLER
Still"er, n.

Defn: One who stills, or quiets.

STILLHOUSE
Still"house`, n.

Defn: A house in which distillation is carried on; a distillery.

STILL-HUNT
Still"-hunt`, n.

Defn: A hunting for game in a quiet and cautious manner, or under
cover; stalking; hence, colloquially, the pursuit of any object
quietly and cautiously.
 -- Still"-hunt`er, n.
 -- Still"-hunt`ing, n. [U.S.]

STILLICIDE
Stil"li*cide, n. Etym: [L. stillicidium; stilla a drop + cadere to
fall.]

Defn: A continual falling or succession of drops; rain water falling
from the eaves. Bacon.

STILLICIDIOUS
Stil`li*cid"i*ous, a.

Defn: Falling in drops. [Obs.]

STILLIFORM
Stil"li*form, a. Etym: [L. stilla a drop + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a drop. Owen.

STILLING
Still"ing, n. Etym: [Cf. LG. stelling, G. stellen to set, to place.]

Defn: A stillion. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

STILLION
Stil"lion, n. Etym: [See Stilling.]

Defn: A stand, as for casks or vats in a brewery, or for pottery
while drying.

STILLNESS
Still"ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being still; quietness; silence; calmness;
inactivity.
Painting, then, was the art demanded by the modern intellect upon its
emergence from the stillness of the Middle Ages. J. A. Symonds.

2. Habitual silence or quiet; taciturnity.
The gravity and stillness of your youth The world hath noted. Shak.

STILLROOM
Still"room`, n.

1. A room for distilling.

2. An apartment in a house where liquors, preserves, and the like,
are kept. [Eng.]
Floors are rubbed bright, . . . stillroom and kitchen cleared for
action. Dickens.

STILLSON WRENCH
Still"son wrench.

Defn: A pipe wrench having an adjustable L-shaped jaw piece sliding
in a sleeve that is pivoted to, and loosely embraces, the handle.
Pressure on the handle increases the grip.

STILLSTAND
Still"stand`, n.

Defn: A standstill. [R.] Shak.

STILLY
Still"y, a.

Defn: Still; quiet; calm.
The stilly hour when storms are gone. Moore.

STILLY
Stil"ly, adv.

Defn: In a still manner; quietly; silently; softly. Dr. H. More.
The hum of either army stilly sounds. Shak.

STILPNOMELANE
Stilp*nom"e*lane, n. Etym: [Gr. stilpno`s shining + me`las, -anos,
black.] (Min.)

Defn: A black or greenish black mineral occurring in foliated flates,
also in velvety bronze-colored incrustations. It is a hydrous
silicate of iron and alumina.

STILT
Stilt, n. Etym: [OE. stilte; akin to Dan. stylte, Sw. stylta, LG. &
D. stelt, OHG. stelza, G. stelze, and perh. to E. stout.]

1. A pole, or piece of wood, constructed with a step or loop to raise
the foot above the ground in walking. It is sometimes lashed to the
leg, and sometimes prolonged upward so as to be steadied by the hand
or arm.
Ambition is but avarice on stilts, and masked. Landor.

2. A crutch; also, the handle of a plow. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of limicoline birds belonging to Himantopus and
allied genera, in which the legs are remarkably long and slender.
Called also longshanks, stiltbird, stilt plover, and lawyer.

Note: The American species (Himantopus Mexicanus) is well known. The
European and Asiatic stilt (H. candidus) is usually white, except the
wings and interscapulars, which are greenish black. The white-headed
stilt (H. leucocephalus) and the banded stilt (Cladorhynchus
pectoralis) are found in Australia. Stilt plover (Zool.), the stilt.
 -- Stilt sandpiper (Zool.), an American sandpiper (Micropalama
himantopus) having long legs. The bill is somewhat expanded at the
tip.

STILT
Stilt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stilted; p. pr. & vb. n. Stilting.]

Defn: To raise on stilts, or as if on stilts.

STILTBIRD
Stilt"bird`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Stilt, n., 3.

STILTED
Stilt"ed, a.

Defn: Elevated as if on stilts; hence, pompous; bombastic; as, a
stilted style; stilted declamation. Stilted arch (Arch.), an arch in
which the springing line is some distance above the impost, the space
between being occupied by a vertical member, molded or ornamented, as
a continuation of the archivolt, intrados, etc.

STILTIFY
Stilt"i*fy, v. t. Etym: [Stilt + -fy.]

Defn: To raise upon stilts, or as upon stilts; to stilt.

STILTON CHEESE; STILTON
Stil"ton cheese", or Stil"ton, n.

Defn: A peculiarly flavored unpressed cheese made from milk with
cream added; -- so called from the village or parish of Stilton,
England, where it was originally made. It is very rich in fat.

Thus, in the outset he was gastronomic; discussed the dinner from the
soup to the stilton.
C. Lever.

STILTY
Stilt"y, a.

Defn: Unreasonably elevated; pompous; stilted; as, a stilty style.

STIME
Stime, n. Etym: [Etymology uncertain.]

Defn: A slight gleam or glimmer; a glimpse. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STIMEY; STIMIE
Sti"mey, Sti"mie, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Stymie.

STIMULANT
Stim"u*lant, a. Etym: [L. stimulans, p.pr.; cf. F. stimulant. See
Stimulate.]

1. Serving to stimulate.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Produced increased vital action in the organism, or in any of
its parts.

STIMULANT
Stim"u*lant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stimulant.]

1. That which stimulates, provokes, or excites.
His feelings had been exasperated by the constant application of
stimulants. Macaulay.

2. (Physiol. & Med.)

Defn: An agent which produces a temporary increase of vital activity
in the organism, or in any of its parts; -- sometimes used without
qualification to signify an alcoholic beverage used as a stimulant.

STIMULATE
Stim"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stimulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stimulating.] Etym: [L. stimulatus, p.p. of stimulare to prick or
goad on, to incite, fr. stimulus a goad. See Stimulus.]

1. To excite as if with a goad; to excite, rouse, or animate, to
action or more vigorous exertion by some pungent motive or by
persuasion; as, to stimulate one by the hope of reward, or by the
prospect of glory.
To excite and stimulate us thereunto. Dr. J. Scott.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: To excite; to irritate; especially, to excite the activity of
(a nerve or an irritable muscle), as by electricity.

Syn.
 -- To animate; incite; encourage; impel; urge; instigate; irritate;
exasperate; incense.

STIMULATION
Stim`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. stimulatio: cf. F. stimulation.]

1. The act of stimulating, or the state of being stimulated.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The irritating action of various agents (stimuli) on muscles,
nerves, or a sensory end organ, by which activity is evoked;
especially, the nervous impulse produced by various agents on nerves,
or a sensory end organ, by which the part connected with the nerve is
thrown into a state of activity; irritation.

STIMULATIVE
Stim"u*la*tive, a.

Defn: Having the quality of stimulating.
 -- n.

Defn: That which stimulates.

STIMULATOR
Stim"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.: cf. F. stimulateur.]

Defn: One who stimulates.

STIMULATRESS
Stim"u*la`tress, n.

Defn: A woman who stimulates.

STIMULISM
Stim"u*lism, n. (Med.)
(a) The theory of medical practice which regarded life as dependent
upon stimulation, or excitation, and disease as caused by excess or
deficiency in the amount of stimulation.
(b) The practice of treating disease by alcoholic stimulants. Dr. H.
Hartshorne.

STIMULUS
Stim"u*lus, n.; pl. Stimuli. Etym: [L., for stigmulus, akin to L.
instigare to stimulate. See Instigare, Stick, v. t.]

1. A goad; hence, something that rouses the mind or spirits; an
incentive; as, the hope of gain is a powerful stimulus to labor and
action.

2. That which excites or produces a temporary increase of vital
action, either in the whole organism or in any of its parts;
especially (Physiol.), any substance or agent capable of evoking the
activity of a nerve or irritable muscle, or capable of producing an
impression upon a sensory organ or more particularly upon its
specific end organ.

Note: Of the stimuli applied to the sensory apparatus, physiologists
distinguish two kinds: (a) Homologous stimuli, which act only upon
the end organ, and for whose action the sense organs are especially
adapted, as the rods and cones of the retina for the vibrations of
the either. (b) Heterologous stimuli, which are mechanical, chemical,
electrical, etc., and act upon the nervous elements of the sensory
apparatus along their entire course, producing, for example, the
flash of light beheld when the eye is struck. Landois & Stirling.

STING
Sting, n. Etym: [AS. sting a sting. See Sting, v. t.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any sharp organ of offense and defense, especially when
connected with a poison gland, and adapted to inflict a wound by
piercing; as the caudal sting of a scorpion. The sting of a bee or
wasp is a modified ovipositor. The caudal sting, or spine, of a sting
ray is a modified dorsal fin ray. The term is sometimes applied to
the fang of a serpent. See Illust. of Scorpion.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A sharp-pointed hollow hair seated on a gland which secrets an
acrid fluid, as in nettles. The points of these hairs usually break
off in the wound, and the acrid fluid is pressed into it.

3. Anything that gives acute pain, bodily or mental; as, the stings
of remorse; the stings of reproach.
The sting of death is sin. 1 Cor. xv. 56.

4. The thrust of a sting into the flesh; the act of stinging; a wound
inflicted by stinging. "The lurking serpent's mortal sting." Shak.

5. A goad; incitement. Shak.

6. The point of an epigram or other sarcastic saying. Sting moth
(Zool.), an Australian moth (Doratifera vulnerans) whose larva is
armed, at each end of the body, with four tubercles bearing powerful
stinging organs.
 -- Sting ray. (Zool.) See under 6th Ray.
 -- Sting winkle (Zool.), a spinose marine univalve shell of the
genus Murex, as the European species (Murex erinaceus). See Illust.
of Murex.

STING
Sting, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stung (Archaic Stang (); p. pr. & vb. n.
Stinging.] Etym: [AS. stingan; akin to Icel. & Sw. stinga, Dan.
stinge, and probably to E. stick, v.t.; cf. Goth. usstiggan to put
out, pluck out. Cf. Stick, v. t.]

1. To pierce or wound with a sting; as, bees will sting an animal
that irritates them; the nettles stung his hands.

2. To pain acutely; as, the conscience is stung with remorse; to
bite. "Slander stings the brave." Pope.

3. To goad; to incite, as by taunts or reproaches.

STINGAREE
Sting`a*ree", n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any sting ray. See under 6th Ray.

STINGBULL
Sting"bull`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The European greater weever fish (Trachinus draco), which is
capable of inflicting severe wounds with the spinous rays of its
dorsal fin. See Weever.

STINGER
Sting"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stings.
Professor E. Forbes states that only a small minority of the medus?
of our seas are stingers. Owen.

STINGFISH
Sting"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The weever.

STINGILY
Stin"gi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stingy manner.

STINGINESS
Stin"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stingy.

STINGING
Sting"ing, a.

Defn: Piercing, or capable of piercing, with a sting; inflicting
acute pain as if with a sting, goad, or pointed weapon; pungent;
biting; as, stinging cold; a stinging rebuke.
 -- Sting"ing*ly, adv. Stinging cell. (Zool.) Same as Lasso cell,
under Lasso.

STINGLESS
Sting"less, a.

Defn: Having no sting.

STINGO
Stin"go, n. Etym: [From Sting.]

Defn: Old beer; sharp or strong liquor. [Old Slang]
Shall I set a cup of old stingo at your elbow Addison.

STING RAY; STINGRAY
Sting ray or Sting"ray`, n.

Defn: Any one of numerous rays of the family Dasyatid?, syn.
Trygonid?, having one or more large sharp barbed dorsal spines, on
the whiplike tail, capable of inflicting severe wounds. Some species
reach a large size, and some, esp., on the American Pacific coast,
are very destructive to oysters.

STINGTAIL
Sting"tail`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A sting ray.

STINGY
Sting"y, a.

Defn: Stinging; able to sting.

STINGY
Stin"gy, a. [Compar. Stingier; superl. Stingiest.] Etym: [Probably
from sting, and meaning originally, stinging; hence, biting, nipping
(of the wind), churlish, avaricious; or cf. E. skinch.]

Defn: Extremely close and covetous; meanly avaricious; niggardly;
miserly; penurious; as, a stingy churl.
A stingy, narrow-hearted fellow that had a deal of choice fruit, had
not the heart to touch it till it began to be rotten. L'estrange.

STINK
Stink, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stunk, Stank (, p. pr. & vb. n. Stinking.]
Etym: [AS. stinkan to have a smell (whether good or bad); akin to
OHG. stinchan, G. & D. stinken to stink; of uncertain origin; cf.
Icel. stokkva to leap, to spring, Goth. stigqan to push, strike, or
Gr. Stench.]

Defn: To emit a strong, offensive smell; to send out a disgusting
odor.

STINK
Stink, v. t.

Defn: To cause to stink; to affect by a stink.

STINK
Stink, n. Etym: [AS. stinc.]

Defn: A strong, offensive smell; a disgusting odor; a stench. Fire
stink. See under Fire.
 -- Stink-fire lance. See under Lance.
 -- Stink rat (Zool.), the musk turtle. [Local, U.S.] -- Stink shad
(Zool.), the gizzard shad. [Local, U.S.] Stink trap, a stench trap.
See under Stench.

STINKARD
Stink"ard, n.

1. A mean, stinking, paltry fellow. B. Jonson.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The teledu of the East Indies. It emits a disagreeable odor.

STINKBALL
Stink"ball`, n.

Defn: A composition of substances which in combustion emit a
suffocating odor; -- used formerly in naval warfare.

STINKER
Stink"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, stinks.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of the several species of large antarctic petrels which
feed on blubber and carrion and have an offensive odor, as the giant
fulmar.

STINKHORN
Stink"horn`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of fungus of the genus Phallus, which emits a fetid
odor.

STINKING
Stink"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Stink, v. Stinking badger (Zool.), the teledu.
 -- Stinking cedar (Bot.), the California nutmeg tree; also, a
related tree of Florida (Torreya taxifolia).

STINKINGLY
Stink"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stinking manner; with an offensive smell.

STINKPOT
Stink"pot`, n.

1. An earthen jar charged with powder, grenades, and other materials
of an offensive and suffocating smell, -- sometimes used in boarding
an enemy's vessel.

2. A vessel in which disinfectants are burned.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The musk turtle, or musk tortoise. See under Musk.

STINKSTONE
Stink"stone`, n. (Min.)

Defn: One of the varieties of calcite, barite, and feldspar, which
emit a fetid odor on being struck; -- called also swinestone.

STINKWEED
Stink"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Stramonium. See Jamestown weed, and Datura.

STINKWOOD
Stink"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several kinds of wood with an unpleasant smell,
as that of the Foetidia Mauritiana of the Mauritius, and that of the
South African Ocotea bullata.

STINT
Stint, n. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of several species of small sandpipers, as the sanderling
of Europe and America, the dunlin, the little stint of India (Tringa
minuta), etc. Called also pume.
(b) A phalarope.

STINT
Stint, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stinted; p. pr. & vb. n. Stinting.] Etym:
[OE. stinten, stenten, stunten, to cause to cease, AS. styntan (in
comp.) to blunt, dull, fr. stunt dull, stupid; akin to Icel. stytta
to shorten, stuttr short, dial, Sw. stynta to shorten, stunt short.
Cf. Stent, Stunt.]

1. To restrain within certain limits; to bound; to confine; to
restrain; to restrict to a scant allowance.
I shall not go about to extenuate the latitude of the curse upon the
earth, or stint it only to the production of weeds. Woodward.
She stints them in their meals. Law.

2. To put an end to; to stop. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To assign a certain (i. e., limited) task to (a person), upon the
performance of which one is excused from further labor for the day or
for a certain time; to stent.

4. To serve successfully; to get with foal; -- said of mares.
The majority of maiden mares will become stinted while at work. J. H.
Walsh.

STINT
Stint, v. i.

Defn: To stop; to cease. [Archaic]
They can not stint till no thing be left. Chaucer.
And stint thou too, I pray thee. Shak.
The damsel stinted in her song. Sir W. Scott.

STINT
Stint, n. Etym: [Also written stent. See Stint, v. t.]

1. Limit; bound; restraint; extent.
God has wrote upon no created thing the utmost stint of his power.
South.

2. Quantity or task assigned; proportion allotted.
His old stint -- three thousand pounds a year. Cowper.

STINTANCE
Stint"ance, n.

Defn: Restraint; stoppage. [Obs.]

STINTEDNESS
Stint"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being stinted.

STINTER
Stint"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stints.

STINTLESS
Stint"less, a.

Defn: Without stint or restraint.
The stintlesstears of old Heraclitus. Marston.

STIPE
Stipe, n. Etym: [L. stipes a stock, post, branch: cf. F. stipe.]
(Bot.)
(a) The stalk or petiole of a frond, as of a fern.
(b) The stalk of a pistil.
(c) The trunk of a tree.
(d) The stem of a fungus or mushroom.

STIPEL
Sti"pel, n. Etym: [See Stipule.] (Bot.)

Defn: The stipule of a leaflet. Gray.

STIPELLATE
Sti*pel"late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having stipels.

STIPEND
Sti"pend, n. Etym: [L. stipendium; stips, gen. stipis, a gift,
donation, given in small coin + pendere to weigh or pay out.]

Defn: Settled pay or compensation for services, whether paid daily,
monthly, or annually.

STIPEND
Sti"pend, v. t.

Defn: To pay by settled wages. [R.]

STIPENDIARIAN
Sti*pen`di*a"ri*an, a.

Defn: Acting from mercenary considerations; stipendiary. A. Seward.

STIPENDIARY
Sti*pen"di*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. stipendiarius: cf. F. stipendiaire.]

Defn: Receiving wages, or salary; performing services for a stated
price or compensation.
His great stipendiary prelates came with troops of evil-appointed
horseman not half full. Knolles.

STIPENDIARY
Sti*pen"di*a*ry, n.; pl. Stipendiaries (.

Defn: One who receives a stipend.
If thou art become A tyrant's vile stipendiary. Glover.

STIPENDIATE
Sti*pen"di*ate, v. t. Etym: [L. stipendiatus, p.p. of stipendiari to
receive pay.]

Defn: To provide with a stipend, or salary; to support; to pay.
Evelyn.
It is good to endow colleges, and to found chairs, and to stipendiate
professors. I. Taylor.

STIPENDLESS
Sti"pend*less (sti"pend*les), a.

Defn: Having no stipend.

STIPES
Sti"pes (-pez), n.; pl. Stipites. Etym: [L., a stock.] (Zool.)
(a) The second joint of a maxilla of an insect or a crustacean.
(b) An eyestalk.

STIPITATE
Stip"i*tate, a. Etym: [NL. stipitatus, from L. stipes, gen. stipitis,
a stock. See Stipe.] (Bot.)

Defn: Supported by a stipe; elevated on a stipe, as the fronds of
most ferns, or the pod of certain cruciferous plants.

STIPITIFORM
Stip"i*ti*form, a. Etym: [Stipes + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the shape of a stalk; stalklike.

STIPPLE
Stip"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stippled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stippling.]
Etym: [D. stippelen to make points, to spot, dot, from stippel, dim.
of stip a dot, spot.]

1. To engrave by means of dots, in distinction from engraving in
lines.
The interlaying of small pieces can not altogether avoid a broken,
stippled, spotty effect. Milman.

2. To paint, as in water colors, by small, short touches which
together produce an even or softly graded surface.

STIPPLE; STIPPLING
Stip"ple, Stip"pling, n. (Engraving)

Defn: A mode of execution which produces the effect by dots or small
points instead of lines.

2. (Paint.)

Defn: A mode of execution in which a flat or even tint is produced by
many small touches.

STIPTIC
Stip"tic, a. & n. (Med.)

Defn: See Styptic.

STIPULA
Stip"u*la, n.; pl. E. Stipulas, L. Stipul?. Etym: [L., a stalk,
stem.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A stipule.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A newly sprouted feather.

STIPULACEOUS; STIPULAR
Stip`u*la"ceous, Stip"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stipulace, stipulaire.
See Stipula.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to stipules; resembling stipules; furnished
with stipules; growing on stipules, or close to them; occupying the
position of stipules; as, stipular glands and stipular tendrils.

STIPULARY
Stip"u*la*ry, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to stipules; stipular.

STIPULATE
Stip"u*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with stipules; as, a stipulate leaf.

STIPULATE
Stip"u*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stipulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stipulating.] Etym: [L. stipulatus, p.p. of stipulari to stipulate,
fr. OL. stipulus firm, fast; probably akin to L. stipes a post. Cf.
Stiff.]

Defn: To make an agreement or covenant with any person or company to
do or forbear anything; to bargain; to contract; to settle terms; as,
certain princes stipulated to assist each other in resisting the
armies of France.

STIPULATION
Stip`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. stipulatio: cf. F. stipulation.]

1. The act of stipulating; a contracting or bargaining; an agreement.

2. That which is stipulated, or agreed upon; that which is definitely
arranged or contracted; an agreement; a covenant; a contract or
bargain; also, any particular article, item, or condition, in a
mutual agreement; as, the stipulations of the allied powers to
furnish each his contingent of troops.

3. (Law)

Defn: A material article of an agreement; an undertaking in the
nature of bail taken in the admiralty courts; a bargain. Bouvier.
Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Agreement; contract; engagement. See Covenant.

STIPULATION
Stip`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [See Stipule.] (Bot.)

Defn: The situation, arrangement, and structure of the stipules.

STIPULATOR
Stip"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who stipulates, contracts, or covenants.

STIPULE
Stip"ule, n. Etym: [L. stipula a stalk, stem, straw: cf. F. stipule.
Cf. Stubble.] (Bot.)

Defn: An appendage at the base of petioles or leaves, usually
somewhat resembling a small leaf in texture and appearance.

STIPULED
Stip"uled, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with stipules, or leafy appendages.

STIR
Stir, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stirred; p. pr. & vb. n. Stirring.] Etym:
[OE. stiren, steren, sturen, AS. styrian; probably akin to D. storen
to disturb, G. storen, OHG. storen to scatter, destroy. *166.]

1. To change the place of in any manner; to move.
My foot I had never yet in five days been able to stir. Sir W.
Temple.

2. To disturb the relative position of the particles of, as of a
liquid, by passing something through it; to agitate; as, to stir a
pudding with a spoon.
My mind is troubled, like a fountain stirred. Shak.

3. To bring into debate; to agitate; to moot.
Stir not questions of jurisdiction. Bacon.

4. To incite to action; to arouse; to instigate; to prompt; to
excite. "To stir men to devotion." Chaucer.
An Ate, stirring him to blood and strife. Shak.
And for her sake some mutiny will stir. Dryden.

Note: In all senses except the first, stir is often followed by up
with an intensive effect; as, to stir up fire; to stir up sedition.

Syn.
 -- To move; incite; awaken; rouse; animate; stimulate; excite;
provoke.

STIR
Stir, v. i.

1. To move; to change one's position.
I had not power to stir or strive, But felt that I was still alive.
Byron.

2. To be in motion; to be active or bustling; to exert or busy one's
self.
All are not fit with them to stir and toil. Byron.
The friends of the unfortunate exile, far from resenting his unjust
suspicions, were stirring anxiously in his behalf. Merivale.

3. To become the object of notice; to be on foot.
They fancy they have a right to talk freely upon everything that
stirs or appears. I. Watts.

4. To rise, or be up, in the morning. [Colloq.] Shak.

STIR
Stir, n.

1. The act or result of stirring; agitation; tumult; bustle; noise or
various movements.
Why all these words, this clamor, and this stir Denham.
Consider, after so much stir about genus and species, how few words
we have yet settled definitions of. Locke.

2. Public disturbance or commotion; tumultuous disorder; seditious
uproar.
Being advertised of some stirs raised by his unnatural sons in
England. Sir J. Davies.

3. Agitation of thoughts; conflicting passions.

STIRABOUT
Stir"a*bout`, n.

Defn: A dish formed of oatmeal boiled in water to a certain
consistency and frequently stirred, or of oatmeal and dripping mixed
together and stirred about in a pan; a hasty pudding.

STIRIATED
Stir"i*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. stiria an icicle.]

Defn: Adorned with pendants like icicles.

STIRIOUS
Stir"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. stiria an icicle.]

Defn: Resembling icicles. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

STIRK
Stirk, n. Etym: [AS. stric, from steor a steer. See Steer a young
ox.]

Defn: A young bullock or heifer. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

STIRLESS
Stir"less, a.

Defn: Without stirring; very quiet; motionless. "Lying helpless and
stirless." Hare.

STIRP
Stirp, n. Etym: [L. stirps, stirpis.]

Defn: Stock; race; family. [Obs.] Bacon.

STIRPICULTURE
Stir"pi*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. stirps, stirpis, stem, stock, race +
cultura culture.]

Defn: The breeding of special stocks or races.

STIRPS
Stirps, n.; pl. Stirpes. Etym: [L., stem, stock.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Stock; race; family. Blackstone.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A race, or a fixed and permanent variety.

STIRRAGE
Stir"rage, n.

Defn: The act of stirring; stir; commotion. [Obs.] T. Granger.

STIRRER
Stir"rer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stirs something; also, one who moves
about, especially after sleep; as, an early stirrer. Shak. Stirrer
up, an instigator or inciter. Atterbury.

STIRRING
Stir"ring, a.

Defn: Putting in motion, or being in motion; active; active in
business; habitually employed in some kind of business; accustomed to
a busy life.
A more stirring and intellectual age than any which had gone before
it. Southey.

Syn.
 -- Animating; arousing; awakening; stimulating; quickening;
exciting.

STIRRUP
Stir"rup, n. Etym: [OE. stirop, AS. stigrap; stigan to mount, ascend
+ rap a rope; akin to G. stegreif a stirrup. *164. See Sty, v. i.,
and Rope.]

1. A kind of ring, or bent piece of metal, wood, leather, or the
like, horizontal in one part for receiving the foot of a rider, and
attached by a strap to the saddle, -- used to assist a person in
mounting a horse, and to enable him to sit steadily in riding, as
well as to relieve him by supporting a part of the weight of the
body.
Our host upon his stirpoes stood anon. Chaucer.

2. (Carp. & Mach.)

Defn: Any piece resembling in shape the stirrup of a saddle, and used
as a support, clamp, etc. See Bridle iron.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope secured to a yard, with a thimble in its lower end for
supporting a footrope. Totten. Stirrup bone (Anat.), the stapes.
 -- Stirrup cup, a parting cup taken after mounting.
 -- Stirrup iron, an iron stirrup.
 -- Stirrup leather, or Stirrup strap, the strap which attaches a
stirrup to the saddle. See Stirrup, 1.

STIRT
Stirt, obs. p. p. of Start, v. i.

Defn: Started; leaped.
They privily be stirt into a well. Chaucer.

STIRTE
Stir"te, obs.

Defn: imp. of Start, v. i. & t. Chaucer.

STITCH
Stitch, n. Etym: [OE. stiche, AS. stice a pricking, akin to stician
to prick. See Stick, v. i.]

1. A single pass of a needle in sewing; the loop or turn of the
thread thus made.

2. A single turn of the thread round a needle in knitting; a link, or
loop, of yarn; as, to let down, or drop, a stitch; to take up a
stitch.

3. Etym: [Cf. OE. sticche, stecche, stucche, a piece, AS. stycce. Cf.
Stock.]

Defn: A space of work taken up, or gone over, in a single pass of the
needle; hence, by extension, any space passed over; distance.
You have gone a good stitch. Bunyan.
In Syria the husbandmen go lightly over with their plow, and take no
deep stitch in making their furrows. Holland.

4. A local sharp pain; an acute pain, like the piercing of a needle;
as, a stitch in the side.
He was taken with a cold and with stitches, which was, indeed, a
pleurisy. Bp. Burnet.

5. A contortion, or twist. [Obs.]
If you talk, Or pull your face into a stitch again, I shall be angry.
Marston.

6. Any least part of a fabric or dress; as, to wet every stitch of
clothes. [Colloq.]

7. A furrow. Chapman. Chain stitch, Lock stitch. See in the
Vocabulary.
 -- Pearl, or Purl stitch. See 2nd Purl, 2.

STITCH
Stitch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stitched; p. pr. & vb. n. Stitching.]

1. To form stitches in; especially, to sew in such a manner as to
show on the surface a continuous line of stitches; as, to stitch a
shirt bosom.

2. To sew, or unite together by stitches; as, to stitch printed
sheets in making a book or a pamphlet.

3. (Agric.)

Defn: To form land into ridges. To stitch up, to mend or unite with a
needle and thread; as, to stitch up a rent; to stitch up an artery.

STITCH
Stitch, v. i.

Defn: To practice stitching, or needlework.

STITCHEL
Stitch"el, n.

Defn: A kind of hairy wool. [Prov.]

STITCHER
Stitch"er, n.

Defn: One who stitches; a seamstress.

STITCHERY
Stitch"er*y, n.

Defn: Needlework; -- in comtempt. Shak.

STITCHING
Stitch"ing, n.

1. The act of one who stitches.

2. Work done by sewing, esp. when a continuous line of stitches is
shown on the surface; stitches, collectively.

STITCHWORT
Stitch"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Stichwort.

STITH
Stith, a. Etym: [AS. sti.]

Defn: Strong; stiff; rigid. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

STITH
Stith, n. Etym: [Icel. ste an anvil, akin to sta place. See Stead.]

Defn: An anvil; a stithy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
He invented also pincers, hammers, iron crows, and the anvil, or
stith. Holland.

STITHY
Stith"y, n. Etym: [See Stith, and cf. Stiddy.]

1. An anvil. Sir W. Scott.

2. A smith's shop; a smithy; a smithery; a forge. "As foul as
Vulcan's stithy." Shak.

STITHY
Stith"y, v. t.

Defn: To forge on an anvil.
The forge that stithied Mars his helm. Shak.

STIVE
Stive, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stived; p. pr. & vb. n. Stiving.] Etym:
[Probably fr. F. estiver to compress, stow, L. stipare: cf. It.
stivare, Sp. estivar. Cf. Stevedore, Stiff.]

Defn: To stuff; to crowd; to fill full; hence, to make hot and close;
to render stifling. Sandys.
His chamber was commonly stived with friends or suitors of one kind
or other. Sir H. Wotton.

STIVE
Stive, v. i.

Defn: To be stifled or suffocated.

STIVE
Stive, n.

Defn: The floating dust in flour mills caused by the operation or
grinding. De Colange.

STIVER
Sti"ver, n. Etym: [D. stuiver; akin to G. stuber, Dan. styver, Sw.
styfver.]

Defn: A Dutch coin, and money of account, of the value of two cents,
or about one penny sterling; hence, figuratively, anything of little
worth.

STIVES
Stives, n. pl. Etym: [OE. See Stew.]

Defn: Stews; a brothel. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STOAK
Stoak, v. t. Etym: [Cf. G. stocken.] (Naut.)

Defn: To stop; to choke.

STOAT
Stoat, n. Etym: [OE. stot a stoat, horse, bullock; perhaps originally
only of male animals, and akin to D. stooten to push, E. stutter; cf.
Icel. st a bull, Sw. stut a bullock. Cf. Stot.] (Zool.)

Defn: The ermine in its summer pelage, when it is reddish brown, but
with a black tip to the tail. The name is sometimes applied also to
other brown weasels.

STOCAH
Sto"cah, n. Etym: [Ir. & Gael. stocach an idle fellow who lives on
the industry of others, a lounger.]

Defn: A menial attendant. [Obs.] Spenser.

STOCCADE
Stoc*cade", n. & v.

Defn: See Stockade.

STOCCADO
Stoc*ca"do, n. Etym: [F. estocade, fr. Sp. estocada, or It. stoccata,
from Sp. estoque, or It. stocco, a rapier, fr. G. stock a stick. See
Stock.]

Defn: A stab; a thrust with a rapier. Shak.

STOCHASTIC
Sto*chas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Conjectural; able to conjecture. [Obs.] Whitefoot.

STOCK
Stock, n. Etym: [AS. stocc a stock, trunk, stick; akin to D. stok, G.
stock, OHG. stoc, Icel. stokkr, Sw. stock, Dan. stok, and AS. stycce
a piece; cf. Skr. tuj to urge, thrust. Cf. Stokker, Stucco, and Tuck
a rapier.]

1. The stem, or main body, of a tree or plant; the fixed, strong,
firm part; the trunk.
Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof
die in the ground, yet through the scent of water it will bud, and
bring forth boughs like a plant. Job xiv. 8,9.

2. The stem or branch in which a graft is inserted.
The scion overruleth the stock quite. Bacon.

3. A block of wood; something fixed and solid; a pillar; a firm
support; a post.
All our fathers worshiped stocks and stones. Milton.
Item, for a stock of brass for the holy water, seven shillings;
which, by the canon, must be of marble or metal, and in no case of
brick. Fuller.

4. Hence, a person who is as dull and lifeless as a stock or post;
one who has little sense.
Let's be no stoics, nor no stocks. Shak.

5. The principal supporting part; the part in which others are
inserted, or to which they are attached. Specifically: --
(a) The wood to which the barrel, lock, etc., of a musket or like
firearm are secured; also, a long, rectangular piece of wood, which
is an important part of several forms of gun carriage.
(b) The handle or contrivance by which bits are held in boring; a
bitstock; a brace.
(c) (Joinery) The block of wood or metal frame which constitutes the
body of a plane, and in which the plane iron is fitted; a plane
stock.
(d) (Naut.) The wooden or iron crosspiece to which the shank of an
anchor is attached. See Illust. of Anchor.
(e) The support of the block in which an anvil is fixed, or of the
anvil itself.
(f) A handle or wrench forming a holder for the dies for cutting
screws; a diestock.
(g) The part of a tally formerly struck in the exchequer, which was
delivered to the person who had lent the king money on account, as
the evidence of indebtedness. See Counterfoil. [Eng.]

6. The original progenitor; also, the race or line of a family; the
progenitor of a family and his direct descendants; lineage; family.
And stand betwixt them made, when, severally, All told their stock.
Chapman.
Thy mother was no goddess, nor thy stock From Dardanus. Denham.

7. Money or capital which an individual or a firm employs in
business; fund; in the United States, the capital of a bank or other
company, in the form of transferable shares, each of a certain
amount; money funded in government securities, called also the public
funds; in the plural, property consisting of shares in joint-stock
companies, or in the obligations of a government for its funded debt;
-- so in the United States, but in England the latter only are called
stocks, and the former shares.

8. (Bookkeeping)

Defn: Same as Stock account, below.

9. Supply provided; store; accumulation; especially, a merchant's or
manufacturer's store of goods; as, to lay in a stock of provisions.
Add to that stock which justly we bestow. Dryden.

10. (Agric.)

Defn: Domestic animals or beasts collectively, used or raised on a
farm; as, a stock of cattle or of sheep, etc.; -- called also live
stock.

11. (Card Playing)

Defn: That portion of a pack of cards not distributed to the players
at the beginning of certain games, as gleek, etc., but which might be
drawn from afterward as occasion required; a bank.
I must buy the stock; send me good cardings. Beau. & Fl.

12. A thrust with a rapier; a stoccado. [Obs.]

13. Etym: [Cf. Stocking.]

Defn: A covering for the leg, or leg and foot; as, upper stocks
(breeches); nether stocks (stockings). [Obs.]
With a linen stock on one leg. Shak.

14. A kind of stiff, wide band or cravat for the neck; as, a silk
stock.

15. pl.

Defn: A frame of timber, with holes in which the feet, or the feet
and hands, of criminals were formerly confined by way of punishment.
He shall rest in my stocks. Piers Plowman.

16. pl. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: The frame or timbers on which a ship rests while building.

17. pl.

Defn: Red and gray bricks, used for the exterior of walls and the
front of buildings. [Eng.]

18. (Bot.)

Defn: Any cruciferous plant of the genus Matthiola; as, common stock
(Matthiola incana) (see Gilly-flower); ten-weeks stock (M. annua).

19. (Geol.)

Defn: An irregular metalliferous mass filling a large cavity in a
rock formation, as a stock of lead ore deposited in limestone.

20. A race or variety in a species.

21. (Biol.)

Defn: In tectology, an aggregate or colony of persons (see Person),
as trees, chains of salp?, etc.

22. The beater of a fulling mill. Knight.

23. (Cookery)

Defn: A liquid or jelly containing the juices and soluble parts of
meat, and certain vegetables, etc., extracted by cooking; -- used in
making soup, gravy, etc. Bit stock. See Bitstock.
 -- Dead stock (Agric.), the implements of husbandry, and produce
stored up for use; -- in distinction from live stock, or the domestic
animals on the farm. See def. 10, above.
 -- Head stock. See Headstock.
 -- Paper stock, rags and other material of which paper is made.
 -- Stock account (Bookkeeping), an account on a merchant's ledger,
one side of which shows the original capital, or stock, and the
additions thereto by accumulation or contribution, the other side
showing the amounts withdrawn.
 -- Stock car, a railway car for carrying cattle.
 -- Stock company (Com.), an incorporated company the capital of
which is represented by marketable shares having a certain equal par
value.
 -- Stock duck (Zool.), the mallard.
 -- Stock exchange. (a) The building or place where stocks are bought
and sold; stock market; hence, transactions of all kinds in stocks.
(b) An association or body of stockbrokers who meet and transact
business by certain recognized forms, regulations, and usages.
Wharton. Brande & C.
 -- Stock farmer, a farmer who makes it his business to rear live
stock.
 -- Stock gillyflower (Bot.), the common stock. See Stock, n., 18.
 -- Stock gold, gold laid up so as to form a stock, or hoard.
 -- Stock in trade, the goods kept for sale by a shopkeeper; the
fittings and appliances of a workman. Simmonds.
 -- Stock list, a list of stocks, or shares, dealt in, of
transactions, and of prices.
 -- Stock lock, a lock inclosed in a wooden case and attached to the
face of a door.
 -- Stock market. (a) A place where stocks are bought and sold; the
stock exchange. (b) A market for live stock.
 -- Stock pigeon. (Zool.) Same as Stockdove.
 -- Stock purse. (a) A common purse, as distinguished from a private
purse. (b) (Mil.) Moneys saved out of the expenses of a company or
regiment, and applied to objects of common interest. [Eng.] -- Stock
shave, a tool used by blockmakers.
 -- Stock station, a place or district for rearing stock. [Australia]
W. Howitt.
 -- Stock tackle (Naut.), a tackle used when the anchor is hoisted
and secured, to keep its stock clear of the ship's sides. Totten.
 -- Stock taking, an examination and inventory made of goods or stock
in a shop or warehouse; -- usually made periodically.
 -- Tail stock. See Tailstock.
 -- To have something on the stock, to be at work at something.
 -- To take stock, to take account of stock; to make an inventory of
stock or goods on hand. Dickens.
 -- To take stock in. (a) To subscribe for, or purchase, shares in a
stock company. (b) To put faith in; to accept as trustworthy; as, to
take stock in a person's fidelity. [Slang] -- To take stock of, to
take account of the stock of; to take an inventory of; hence, to
ascertain the facts in regard to (something). [Eng.]
At the outset of any inquiry it is proper to take stock of the
results obtained by previous explorers of the same field. Leslie
Stephen.

Syn.
 -- Fund; capital; store; supply; accumulation; hoard; provision.

STOCK
Stock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Stocking.]

1. To lay up; to put aside for future use; to store, as merchandise,
and the like.

2. To provide with material requisites; to store; to fill; to supply;
as, to stock a warehouse, that is, to fill it with goods; to stock a
farm, that is, to supply it with cattle and tools; to stock land,
that is, to occupy it with a permanent growth, especially of grass.

3. To suffer to retain milk for twenty-four hours or more previous to
sale, as cows.

4. To put in the stocks. [R.] Shak. To stock an anchor (Naut.), to
fit it with a stock, or to fasten the stock firmly in place.
 -- To stock cards (Card Playing), to arrange cards in a certain
manner for cheating purposes. [Cant] -- To stock down (Agric.), to
sow, as plowed land, with grass seed, in order that it may become
swarded, and produce grass.
 -- To stock up, to extirpate; to dig up.

STOCK
Stock, a.

Defn: Used or employed for constant service or application, as if
constituting a portion of a stock or supply; standard; permanent;
standing; as, a stock actor; a stock play; a stock sermon. "A stock
charge against Raleigh." C. Kingsley. Stock company (Theater), a
company of actors regularly employed at one theater, or permanently
acting together in various plays under one management.

STOCKADE
Stock*ade", n. Etym: [F. estacade stockade, boom (confused in French
with estocade; see 1st Stoccado); fr. It. steccata a palisade
(influenced by OF. estach, estaque, a stake, post), or from Sp.
estacada a palisade; both of German origin, and akin to E. stake,
stick; cf. G. stecken stick, OHG. steccho. See Stake, n., Stick, n. &
v. t., and cf. Estacade, Stacket.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A line of stout posts or timbers set firmly in the earth in
contact with each other (and usually with loopholes) to form a
barrier, or defensive fortification. [Written also stoccade.]

2. An inclosure, or pen, made with posts and stakes.

STOCKADE
Stock*ade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stockaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stockading.]

Defn: To surround, fortify, or protect with a stockade.

STOCK-BLIND
Stock"-blind`, a.

Defn: Blind as a stock; wholly blind.

STOCKBROKER
Stock"bro`ker, n.

Defn: A broker who deals in stocks.

STOCKDOVE
Stock"dove`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A common European wild pigeon (Columba ?nas), so called because
at one time believed to be the stock of the domestic pigeon, or,
according to some, from its breeding in the stocks, or trunks, of
trees.

Note: The name is applied, also, to other related species, as the
Indian stockdove (Palumb?na Eversmanni).

STOCKER
Stock"er, n.

Defn: One who makes or fits stocks, as of guns or gun carriages, etc.

STOCKFISH
Stock"fish`, n. Etym: [Cf. D. stokvisch.]

1. Salted and dried fish, especially codfish, hake, ling, and torsk;
also, codfish dried without being salted.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Young fresh cod.

STOCKHOLDER
Stock"hold`er, n.

Defn: One who is a holder or proprietor of stock in the public funds,
or in the funds of a bank or other stock company.

STOCKINET
Stock`i*net", n.

Defn: An elastic textile fabric imitating knitting, of which
stockings, under-garments, etc., are made.

STOCKING
Stock"ing, n. Etym: [From Stock, which was formerly used of a
covering for the legs and feet, combining breeches, or upper stocks,
and stockings, or nether stocks.]

Defn: A close-fitting covering for the foot and leg, usually knit or
woven. Blue stocking. See Bluestocking.
 -- Stocking frame, a machine for knitting stockings or other hosiery
goods.

STOCKING
Stock"ing, v. t.

Defn: To dress in GBs. Dryden.

STOCKINGER
Stock"ing*er, n.

Defn: A stocking weaver.

STOCKISH
Stock"ish, a.

Defn: Like a stock; stupid; blockish.
Since naught so stockish, hard, and full of rage, But music for the
time doth change his nature. Shak.

STOCKJOBBER
Stock"job`ber, n. Etym: [Stock + job.]

Defn: One who speculates in stocks for gain; one whose occupation is
to buy and sell stocks. In England a jobber acts as an intermediary
between brokers.

STOCKJOBBING
Stock"job`bing, n.

Defn: The act or art of dealing in stocks; the business of a
stockjobber.

STOCKMAN
Stock"man, n.; pl. Stockmen (.

Defn: A herdsman; a ranchman; one owning, or having charge of, herds
of live stock. [Australia & U.S.] W. Howitt.

STOCK-STILL
Stock"-still`, a. Etym: [CF. G. stock-still.]

Defn: Still as a stock, or fixed post; perfectly still.
His whole work stands stock-still. Sterne.

STOCKWORK
Stock"work`, n. Etym: [G. stockwerk.]

1. (Mining)

Defn: A system of working in ore, etc., when it lies not in strata or
veins, but in solid masses, so as to be worked in chambers or
stories.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: A metalliferous deposit characterized by the impregnation of
the mass of rock with many small veins or nests irregularly grouped.
This kind of deposit is especially common with tin ore. Such deposits
are worked in floors or stories.

STOCKY
Stock"y, a. Etym: [From Stock.]

1. Short and thick; thick rather than tall or corpulent. Addison.
Stocky, twisted, hunchback stems. Mrs. H. H. Jackson.

2. Headstrong. [Prov. Eng.] G. Eliot.

STODGY
Stodg"y, a.

Defn: Wet. [Prov. Eng.] G. Eliot.

STOECHIOLOGY; STOECHIOMETRY
Stoech`i*ol"o*gy, n., Stoech`i*om"e*try (, n., etc.

Defn: See Stoichiology, Stoichiometry, etc.

STOGY
Sto"gy, a. [Etym. uncertain. Cf. Stocky.]

Defn: heavy; coarse; clumsy. [Colloq.]

STOGY
Sto"gy, n.; pl. Stogies. [Written also stogie.] [Colloq.]

1. A stout, coarse boot or shoe; a brogan.

2.  A kind of cheap, but not necessary inferior, cigar made in the
form of a cylindrical roll.

STOIC
Sto"ic, n. Etym: [L. stoicus, Gr.

1. A disciple of the philosopher Zeno; one of a Greek sect which held
that men should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and
should submit without complaint to unavoidable necessity, by which
all things are governed.

2. Hence, a person not easily excited; an apathetic person; one who
is apparently or professedly indifferent to pleasure or pain.
A Stoic of the woods, a man without a tear. Campbell.
School of Stoics. See The Porch, under Porch.

STOIC; STOICAL
Sto"ic, Sto"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. stoicus, Gr. stoique. See Stoic, n.]

1. Of or pertaining to the Stoics; resembling the Stoics or their
doctrines.

2. Not affected by passion; manifesting indifference to pleasure or
pain.
 -- Sto"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Sto"ic*al*ness, n.

STOICHIOLOGICAL
Stoi`chi*o*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stoichiology.

STOICHIOLOGY
Stoi`chi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] [Written also stoechiology.]

1. That part of the science of physiology which treats of the
elements, or principles, composing animal tissues.

2. (Logic)

Defn: The doctrine of the elementary requisites of mere thought. Sir
W. Hamilton.

3. The statement or discussion of the first principles of any science
or art.

STOICHIOMETRIC; STOICHIOMETRICAL
Stoi`chi*o*met"ric, Stoi`chi*o*met"ric*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stoichiometry; employed in, or obtained by,
stoichiometry.

STOICHIOMETRY
Stoi`chi*om"e*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.]

Defn: The art or process of calculating the atomic proportions,
combining weights, and other numerical relations of chemical elements
and their compounds.

STOICISM
Sto"i*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stoicisme.]

1. The opinions and maxims of the Stoics.

2. A real or pretended indifference to pleasure or pain;
insensibility; impassiveness.

STOICITY
Sto*ic"i*ty, n.

Defn: Stoicism. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

STOKE
Stoke, v. t. Etym: [OE. stoken, fr. D. stoken, fr. stok a stick (cf.
OF. estoquier to thrust, stab; of Teutonic origin, and akin to D.
stok). See Stock.]

1. To stick; to thrust; to stab. [Obs.]
Nor short sword for to stoke, with point biting. Chaucer.

2. To poke or stir up, as a fire; hence, to tend, as the fire of a
furnace, boiler, etc.

STOKE
Stoke, v. i.

Defn: To poke or stir up a fire; hence, to tend the fires of
furnaces, steamers, etc.

STOKEHOLD
Stoke"hold`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The space, or any of the spaces, in front of the boilers of a
ship, from which the furnaces are fed; the stokehole of a ship; also,
a room containing a ship's boilers; as, forced draft with  closed
stokehold; -- called also, in American ships, fireroom.

STOKEHOLE
Stoke"hole`, n.

Defn: The mouth to the grate of a furnace; also, the space in front
of the furnace, where the stokers stand.

STOKER
Stok"er, n. Etym: [D. See Stoke, v. t.]

1. One who is employed to tend a furnace and supply it with fuel,
especially the furnace of a locomotive or of a marine steam boiler;
also, a machine for feeding fuel to a fire.

2. A fire poker. [R.] C. Richardson (Dict.).

STOKEY
Sto"key, a.

Defn: Close; sultry. [Prov. Eng.]

STOLA
Sto"la, n.; pl. Stol?. Etym: [L. See Stole a garment.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A long garment, descending to the ankles, worn by Roman women.
The stola was not allowed to be worn by courtesans, or by women who
had been divorced from their husbands. Fairholt.

STOLE
Stole,

Defn: imp. of Steal.

STOLE
Stole, n. Etym: [L. stolo, -onis.] (Bot.)

Defn: A stolon.

STOLE
Stole, n. Etym: [AS. stole, L. stola, Gr. stall. See Stall.]

1. A long, loose garment reaching to the feet. Spenser.
But when mild morn, in saffron stole, First issues from her eastern
goal. T. Warton.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A narrow band of silk or stuff, sometimes enriched with
embroidery and jewels, worn on the left shoulder of deacons, and
across both shoulders of bishops and priests, pendent on each side
nearly to the ground. At Mass, it is worn crossed on the breast by
priests. It is used in various sacred functions. Groom of the stole,
the first lord of the bedchamber in the royal household. [Eng.]
Brande & C.

STOLED
Stoled, a.

Defn: Having or wearing a stole.
After them flew the prophets, brightly stoled In shining lawn. G.
Fletcher.

STOLEN
Stol"en,

Defn: p. p. of Steal.

STOLID
Stol"id, a. Etym: [L. stolidus.]

Defn: Hopelessly insensible or stupid; not easily aroused or excited;
dull; impassive; foolish.

STOLIDITY
Sto*lid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. stoliditas.]

Defn: The state or quality of being stolid; dullness of intellect;
obtuseness; stupidity.
Indocile, intractable fools, whose stolidity can baffle all
arguments, and be proof against demonstration itself. Bentley.

STOLIDNESS
Stol"id*ness, n.

Defn: Same as Stolidity.

STOLON
Sto"lon, n. Etym: [L. stolo, -onis: cf. F. stolon. Cf. Stole a
stolon, 1st Stool.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A trailing branch which is disposed to take root at the end or
at the joints; a stole.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: An extension of the integument of the body, or of the body
wall, from which buds are developed, giving rise to new zooids, and
thus forming a compound animal in which the zooids usually remain
united by the stolons. Such stolons are often present in Anthozoa,
Hydroidea, Bryozoa, and social ascidians. See Illust. under
Scyphistoma.

STOLONIFEROUS
Stol`o*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Stolon + -ferous: cf. F. stolonifere.]

Defn: Producing stolons; putting forth suckers.

STOMA
Sto"ma, n.; pl. Stomata. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the minute apertures between the cells in many serous
membranes.

2. (Bot.)
(a) The minute breathing pores of leaves or other organs opening into
the intercellular spaces, and usually bordered by two contractile
cells.
(b) The line of dehiscence of the sporangium of a fern. It is usually
marked by two transversely elongated cells. See Illust. of
Sporangium.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A stigma. See Stigma, n., 6 (a) & (b).

STOMACH
Stom"ach, n. Etym: [OE. stomak, F. estomac, L. stomachus, fr. Gr.
sto`machos stomach, throat, gullet, fr. sto`ma a mouth, any outlet or
entrance.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: An enlargement, or series of enlargements, in the anterior part
of the alimentary canal, in which food is digested; any cavity in
which digestion takes place in an animal; a digestive cavity. See
Digestion, and Gastric juice, under Gastric.

2. The desire for food caused by hunger; appetite; as, a good stomach
for roast beef. Shak.

3. Hence appetite in general; inclination; desire.
He which hath no stomach to this fight, Let him depart. Shak.

4. Violence of temper; anger; sullenness; resentment; willful
obstinacy; stubbornness. [Obs.]
Stern was his look, and full of stomach vain. Spenser.
This sort of crying proceeding from pride, obstinacy, and stomach,
the will, where the fault lies, must be bent. Locke.

5. Pride; haughtiness; arrogance. [Obs.]
He was a man Of an unbounded stomach. Shak.
Stomach pump (Med.), a small pump or syringe with a flexible tube,
for drawing liquids from the stomach, or for injecting them into it.
 -- Stomach tube (Med.), a long flexible tube for introduction into
the stomach.
 -- Stomach worm (Zool.), the common roundworm (Ascaris lumbricoides)
found in the human intestine, and rarely in the stomach.

STOMACH
Stom"ach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stomached; p. pr. & vb. n. Stomaching.]
Etym: [Cf. L. stomachari, v.t. & i., to be angry or vexed at a
thing.]

1. To resent; to remember with anger; to dislike. Shak.
The lion began to show his teeth, and to stomach the affront.
L'Estrange.
The Parliament sit in that body . . . to be his counselors and
dictators, though he stomach it. Milton.

2. To bear without repugnance; to brook. [Colloq.]

STOMACH
Stom"ach, v. i.

Defn: To be angry. [Obs.] Hooker.

STOMACHAL
Stom"ach*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. stomacal.]

1. Of or pertaining to the stomach; gastric.

2. Helping the stomach; stomachic; cordial.

STOMACHAL
Stom"ach*al, n.

Defn: A stomachic. Dunglison.

STOMACHER
Stom"ach*er, n.

1. One who stomachs.

2. (

Defn: An ornamental covering for the breast, worn originally both by
men and women. Those worn by women were often richly decorated.
A stately lady in a diamond stomacher. Johnson.

STOMACHFUL
Stom"ach*ful, a.

Defn: Willfully obstinate; stubborn; perverse. [Obs.] --
Stom"ach*ful*ly, adv. [Obs.] -- Stom"ach*ful*ness, n. [Obs.]

STOMACHIC; STOMACHICAL
Sto*mach"ic, Sto*mach"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. stomachicus, Gr.
stomachique.]

1. Of or pertaining to the stomach; as, stomachic vessels.

2. Strengthening to the stomach; exciting the action of the stomach;
stomachal; cordial.

STOMACHIC
Sto*mach"ic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine that strengthens the stomach and excites its action.

STOMACHING
Stom"ach*ing, n.

Defn: Resentment. [Obs.]

STOMACHLESS
Stom"ach*less, a.

1. Being without a stomach.

2. Having no appetite. [R.] Bp. Hall.

STOMACHOUS
Stom"ach*ous, a. Etym: [L. stomachosus angry, peexish. See Stomach.]

Defn: Stout; sullen; obstinate. [Obs.]
With stern looks and stomachous disdain. Spenser.

STOMACHY
Stom"ach*y, a.

Defn: Obstinate; sullen; haughty.
A little, bold, solemn, stomachy man, a great professor of piety. R.
L. Stevenson.

STOMAPOD
Sto"ma*pod, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Stomapoda.

STOMAPODA
Sto*map"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Stoma, and -poda.] (Zool.)

Defn: An order of Crustacea including the squillas. The maxillipeds
are leglike in form, and the large claws are comblike. They have a
large and elongated abdomen, which contains a part of the stomach and
heart; the abdominal appendages are large, and bear the gills. Called
also Gastrula, Stomatopoda, and Squilloidea.

STOMATE
Sto"mate, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A stoma.

STOMATIC
Sto*mat"ic, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a stoma; of the nature of a stoma.

STOMATIC
Sto*mat"ic, n. Etym: [Gr. sto`ma, -atos, mouth.] (Med.)

Defn: A medicine for diseases of the mouth. Dunglison.

STOMATIFEROUS
Stom`a*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. sto`ma, -atos mouth + -ferous.]

Defn: Having or producing stomata.

STOMATITIS
Stom`a*ti"tis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. sto`ma, -atos, mouth + -itis.]
(Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the mouth.

STOMATODA
Stom`a*to"da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of Protozoa in which a mouthlike opening exists.

STOMATODAEUM
Stom`a*to*d?"um, n. (Anat.)

Defn: Same as Stomod?um.

STOMATODE
Stom"a*tode, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a mouth; -- applied to certain Protozoa.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Stomatoda.

STOMATOGASTRIC
Stom`a*to*gas"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. gastric.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the mouth and the stomach; as, the
stomatogastric ganglion of certain Mollusca.

STOMATOLOGY
Sto`ma*tol"o*gy, n. [Gr. , , mouth + -logy.] (Med.)

Defn: Scientific study or knowledge of the mouth.

STOMATOPLASTIC
Stom`a*to*plas"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. -plastic.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the operation of forming a mouth where the
aperture has been contracted, or in any way deformed.

STOMATOPLASTY
Stom"a*to*plas`ty, n. [Gr. , , mouth + -plasty.]

Defn: Plastic surgery of the mouth.

STOMATOPOD
Stom"a*to*pod, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Stomatopoda.

STOMATOPODA
Stom`a*top"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Stoma, and -pod.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Stomapoda.

STOMATOPODOUS
Stom`a*top"o*dous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Stomatopoda.

STOMATOSCOPE
Stom"a*to*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Med.)

Defn: An apparatus for examining the interior of the mouth.

STOMATOUS
Stom"a*tous, a.

Defn: Having a stoma.

STOMODAEUM
Stom`o*d?"um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A part of the alimentary canal. See under Mesenteron.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The primitive mouth and esophagus of the embryo of annelids and
arthropods.

STOMP
Stomp, v. i. Etym: [See Stamp.]

Defn: To stamp with the foot. [Colloq.] "In gallant procession, the
priests mean to stomp." R. Browning.

STOND
Stond, n. Etym: [For stand.]

1. Stop; halt; hindrance. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. A stand; a post; a station. [Obs.] Spenser.

STOND
Stond, v. i.

Defn: To stand. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STONE
Stone, n. Etym: [OE. ston, stan, AS. stan; akin to OS. & OFries.
sten, D. steen, G. stein, Icel. steinn, Sw. sten, Dan. steen, Goth.
stains, Russ. stiena a wall, Gr. Steen.]

1. Concreted earthy or mineral matter; also, any particular mass of
such matter; as, a house built of stone; the boy threw a stone;
pebbles are rounded stones. "Dumb as a stone." Chaucer.
They had brick for stone, and slime . . . for mortar. Gen. xi. 3.

Note: In popular language, very large masses of stone are called
rocks; small masses are called stones; and the finer kinds, gravel,
or sand, or grains of sand. Stone is much and widely used in the
construction of buildings of all kinds, for walls, fences, piers,
abutments, arches, monuments, sculpture, and the like.

2. A precious stone; a gem. "Many a rich stone." Chaucer.
"Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels." Shak.

3. Something made of stone. Specifically: -
(a) The glass of a mirror; a mirror. [Obs.]
Lend me a looking-glass; If that her breath will mist or stain the
stone, Why, then she lives. Shak.

(b) A monument to the dead; a gravestone. Gray.
Should some relenting eye Glance on the where our cold relics lie.
Pope.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A calculous concretion, especially one in the kidneys or
bladder; the disease arising from a calculus.

5. One of the testes; a testicle. Shak.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: The hard endocarp of drupes; as, the stone of a cherry or
peach. See Illust. of Endocarp.

7. A weight which legally is fourteen pounds, but in practice varies
with the article weighed. [Eng.]

Note: The stone of butchers' meat or fish is reckoned at 8 lbs.; of
cheese, 16 lbs.; of hemp, 32 lbs.; of glass, 5 lbs.

8. Fig.: Symbol of hardness and insensibility; torpidness;
insensibility; as, a heart of stone.
I have not yet forgot myself to stone. Pope.

9. (Print.)

Defn: A stand or table with a smooth, flat top of stone, commonly
marble, on which to arrange the pages of a book, newspaper, etc.,
before printing; -- called also imposing stone.

Note: Stone is used adjectively or in composition with other words to
denote made of stone, containing a stone or stones, employed on
stone, or, more generally, of or pertaining to stone or stones; as,
stone fruit, or stone-fruit; stone-hammer, or stone hammer; stone
falcon, or stone-falcon. Compounded with some adjectives it denotes a
degree of the quality expressed by the adjective equal to that
possessed by a stone; as, stone-dead, stone-blind, stone-cold, stone-
still, etc. Atlantic stone, ivory. [Obs.] "Citron tables, or Atlantic
stone." Milton.
 -- Bowing stone. Same as Cromlech. Encyc. Brit.
 -- Meteoric stones, stones which fall from the atmosphere, as after
the explosion of a meteor.
 -- Philosopher's stone. See under Philosopher.
 -- Rocking stone. See Rocking-stone.
 -- Stone age, a supposed prehistoric age of the world when stone and
bone were habitually used as the materials for weapons and tools; --
called also flint age. The bronze age succeeded to this.
 -- Stone bass (Zool.), any one of several species of marine food
fishes of the genus Serranus and allied genera, as Serranus Couchii,
and Polyprion cernium of Europe; -- called also sea perch.
 -- Stone biter (Zool.), the wolf fish.
 -- Stone boiling, a method of boiling water or milk by dropping hot
stones into it, -- in use among savages. Tylor.
 -- Stone borer (Zool.), any animal that bores stones; especially,
one of certain bivalve mollusks which burrow in limestone. See
Lithodomus, and Saxicava.
 -- Stone bramble (Bot.), a European trailing species of bramble
(Rubus saxatilis).
 -- Stone-break. Etym: [Cf. G. steinbrech.] (Bot.) Any plant of the
genus Saxifraga; saxifrage.
 -- Stone bruise, a sore spot on the bottom of the foot, from a
bruise by a stone.
 -- Stone canal. (Zool.) Same as Sand canal, under Sand.
 -- Stone cat (Zool.), any one of several species of small fresh-
water North American catfishes of the genus Noturus. They have sharp
pectoral spines with which they inflict painful wounds.
 -- Stone coal, hard coal; mineral coal; anthracite coal.
 -- Stone coral (Zool.), any hard calcareous coral.
 -- Stone crab. (Zool.) (a) A large crab (Menippe mercenaria) found
on the southern coast of the United States and much used as food. (b)
A European spider crab (Lithodes maia). Stone crawfish (Zool.), a
European crawfish (Astacus torrentium), by many writers considered
only a variety of the common species (A. fluviatilis).
 -- Stone curlew. (Zool.) (a) A large plover found in Europe
(Edicnemus crepitans). It frequents stony places. Called also thick-
kneed plover or bustard, and thick-knee. (b) The whimbrel. [Prov.
Eng.] (c) The willet. [Local, U.S.] -- Stone crush. Same as Stone
bruise, above.
 -- Stone eater. (Zool.) Same as Stone borer, above.
 -- Stone falcon (Zool.), the merlin.
 -- Stone fern (Bot.), a European fern (Asplenium Ceterach) which
grows on rocks and walls.
 -- Stone fly (Zool.), any one of many species of pseudoneuropterous
insects of the genus Perla and allied genera; a perlid. They are
often used by anglers for bait. The larv? are aquatic.
 -- Stone fruit (Bot.), any fruit with a stony endocarp; a drupe, as
a peach, plum, or cherry.
 -- Stone grig (Zool.), the mud lamprey, or pride.
 -- Stone hammer, a hammer formed with a face at one end, and a
thick, blunt edge, parallel with the handle, at the other, -- used
for breaking stone.
 -- Stone hawk (Zool.), the merlin; -- so called from its habit of
sitting on bare stones.
 -- Stone jar, a jar made of stoneware.
 -- Stone lily (Paleon.), a fossil crinoid.
 -- Stone lugger. (Zool.) See Stone roller, below.
 -- Stone marten (Zool.), a European marten (Mustela foina) allied to
the pine marten, but having a white throat; -- called also beech
marten.
 -- Stone mason, a mason who works or builds in stone.
 -- Stone-mortar (Mil.), a kind of large mortar formerly used in
sieges for throwing a mass of small stones short distances.
 -- Stone oil, rock oil, petroleum.
 -- Stone parsley (Bot.), an umbelliferous plant (Seseli Labanotis).
See under Parsley.
 -- Stone pine. (Bot.) A nut pine. See the Note under Pine, and
Pinon.
 -- Stone pit, a quarry where stones are dug.
 -- Stone pitch, hard, inspissated pitch.
 -- Stone plover. (Zool.) (a) The European stone curlew. (b) Any one
of several species of Asiatic plovers of the genus Esacus; as, the
large stone plover (E. recurvirostris). (c) The gray or black-bellied
plover. [Prov. Eng.] (d) The ringed plover. (e) The bar-tailed
godwit. [Prov. Eng.] Also applied to other species of limicoline
birds.
 -- Stone roller. (Zool.) (a) An American fresh-water fish
(Catostomus nigricans) of the Sucker family. Its color is yellowish
olive, often with dark blotches. Called also stone lugger, stone
toter, hog sucker, hog mullet. (b) A common American cyprinoid fish
(Campostoma anomalum); -- called also stone lugger.
 -- Stone's cast, or Stone's throw, the distance to which a stone may
be thrown by the hand.
 -- Stone snipe (Zool.), the greater yellowlegs, or tattler. [Local,
U.S.] -- Stone toter. (Zool.) (a) See Stone roller (a), above. (b) A
cyprinoid fish (Exoglossum maxillingua) found in the rivers from
Virginia to New York. It has a three-lobed lower lip; -- called also
cutlips.
 -- To leave no stone unturned, to do everything that can be done; to
use all practicable means to effect an object.

STONE
Stone, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Stoning.] Etym:
[From Stone, n.: cf. AS. st, Goth. stainjan.]

1. To pelt, beat, or kill with stones.
And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus,
receive my spirit. Acts vii. 59.

2. To make like stone; to harden.
O perjured woman! thou dost stone my heart. Shak.

3. To free from stones; also, to remove the seeds of; as, to stone a
field; to stone cherries; to stone raisins.

4. To wall or face with stones; to line or fortify with stones; as,
to stone a well; to stone a cellar.

5. To rub, scour, or sharpen with a stone.

STONEBIRD
Stone"bird`, n.

Defn: The yellowlegs; -- called also stone snipe. See Tattler, 2.
[Local, U.S.]

STONE-BLIND
Stone"-blind`, a.

Defn: As blind as a stone; completely blind.

STONEBOW
Stone"bow`, n.

Defn: A kind of crossbow formerly used for shooting stones. Shak.

STONEBRASH
Stone"brash`, n.

Defn: A subsoil made up of small stones or finely-broken rock; brash.

STONEBREARER
Stone"brear`er, n.

Defn: A machine for crushing or hammering stone. Knight.

STONEBUCK
Stone"buck`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Steinbock.

STONECHAT
Stone"chat`, n. Etym: [Stone + chat.] Etym: [So called from the
similarity of its alarm note to the clicking together of two
pebbles.] (Zool.)
(a) A small, active, and very common European singing bird
(Pratincola rubicola); -- called also chickstone, stonechacker,
stonechatter, stoneclink, stonesmith.
(b) The wheatear.
(c) The blue titmouse.

Note: The name is sometimes applied to various species of Saxicola,
Pratincola, and allied genera; as, the pied stonechat of India
(Saxicola picata).

STONE-COLD
Stone"-cold`, a.

Defn: Cold as a stone.
Stone-cold without, within burnt with love's flame. Fairfax.

STONECRAY
Stone"cray`, n. Etym: [Stone + F. craie chalk, L. creta.]

Defn: A distemper in hawks.

STONECROP
Stone"crop`, n. Etym: [AS. stancropp.]

1. A sort of tree. [Obs.] Mortimer.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Any low succulent plant of the genus Sedum, esp. Sedum acre,
which is common on bare rocks in Europe, and is spreading in parts of
America. See Orpine. Virginian, or Ditch, stonecrop, an American
plant (Penthorum sedoides).

STONECUTTER
Stone"cut`ter, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to cut stone; also, a machine for
dressing stone.

STONECUTTING
Stone"cut`ting, n.

Defn: Hewing or dressing stone.

STONE-DEAD
Stone"-dead`, a.

Defn: As dead as a stone.

STONE-DEAF
Stone"-deaf`, a.

Defn: As deaf as a stone; completely deaf.

STONEGALL
Stone"gall`, n. Etym: [Cf. D. steengal, G. steingall. See Stannel.]
(Zool.)

Defn: See Stannel. [Prov. Eng.]

STONEHATCH
Stone"hatch`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The ring plover, or dotterel. [Prov. Eng.]

STONE-HEARTED
Stone"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Hard-hearted; cruel; pitiless; unfeeling.

STONEHENGE
Stone"henge, n.

Defn: An assemblage of upright stones with others placed horizontally
on their tops, on Salisbury Plain, England, -- generally supposed to
be the remains of an ancient Druidical temple.

STONE-HORSE
Stone"-horse`, n.

Defn: Stallion. [Obs.] Mortimer.

STONER
Ston"er, n.

1. One who stones; one who makes an assault with stones.

2. One who walls with stones.

STONEROOT
Stone"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A North American plant (Collinsonia Canadensis) having a very
hard root; horse balm. See Horse balm, under Horse.

STONERUNNER
Stone"run`ner, n. (Zool.)
(a) The ring plover, or the ringed dotterel. [Prov. Eng.]
(b) The dotterel. [Prov. Eng.]

STONESMICKLE
Stone"smic`kle, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The stonechat; -- called also stonesmitch. [Prov. Eng.]

STONE-STILL
Stone"-still`, a.

Defn: As still as a stone. Shak.

STONEWARE
Stone"ware`, n.

Defn: A species of coarse potter's ware, glazed and baked.

STONEWEED
Stone"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Lithospermum, herbs having a fruit
composed of four stony nutlets.

STONEWORK
Stone"work`, n.

Defn: Work or wall consisting of stone; mason's work of stone.
Mortimer.

STONEWORT
Stone"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Chara; -- so called because they are
often incrusted with carbonate of lime. See Chara.

STONILY
Ston"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stony manner.

STONINESS
Ston"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stony.

STONISH
Ston"ish, a.

Defn: Stony. [R.] "Possessed with stonish insensibility." Robynson
(More's Utopia).

STONT
Stont, obs.

Defn: 3d pers. sing. present of Stand.

STONY
Ston"y, a. [Compar. Stonier; superl. Stoniest.] Etym: [AS. stanig.
See Stone.]

1. Of or pertaining to stone, consisting of, or abounding in, stone
or stones; resembling stone; hard; as, a stony tower; a stony cave;
stony ground; a stony crust.

2. Converting into stone; petrifying; petrific.
The stony dart of senseless cold. Spenser.

3. Inflexible; cruel; unrelenting; pitiless; obdurate; perverse;
cold; morally hard; appearing as if petrified; as, a stony heart; a
stony gaze. Stony coral. (Zool.) Same as Stone coral, under Stone.

STOOD
Stood,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Stand.

STOOK
Stook, n. Etym: [Scot. stook, stouk; cf. LG. stuke a heap, bundle, G.
stauche a truss, bundle of flax.] (Agric.)

Defn: A small collection of sheaves set up in the field; a shock; in
England, twelve sheaves.

STOOK
Stook, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stooked; p. pr. & vb. n. Stooking.]
(Agric.)

Defn: To set up, as sheaves of grain, in stooks.

STOOL
Stool, n. Etym: [L. stolo. See Stolon.] (Hort.)

Defn: A plant from which layers are propagated by bending its
branches into the soil. P. Henderson.

STOOL
Stool, v. i. (Agric.)

Defn: To ramfy; to tiller, as grain; to shoot out suckers. R. D.
Blackmore.

STOOL
Stool, n. Etym: [AS. stol a seat; akin to OFries. & OS. stol, D.
stoel, G. stuhl, OHG. stuol, Icel. stoll, Sw. & Dan. stol, Goth.
stols, Lith. stalas a table, Russ. stol'; from the root of E. stand.
*163. See Stand, and cf. Fauteuil.]

1. A single seat with three or four legs and without a back, made in
various forms for various uses.

2. A seat used in evacuating the bowels; hence, an evacuation; a
discharge from the bowels.

3. A stool pigeon, or decoy bird. [U. S.]

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A small channel on the side of a vessel, for the dead-eyes of
the backstays. Totten.

5. A bishop's seat or see; a bishop-stool. J. P. Peters.

6. A bench or form for resting the feet or the knees; a footstool;
as, a kneeling stool.

7. Material, such as oyster shells, spread on the sea bottom for
oyster spat to adhere to. [Local, U.S.] Stool of a window, or Window
stool (Arch.), the flat piece upon which the window shuts down, and
which corresponds to the sill of a door; in the United States, the
narrow shelf fitted on the inside against the actual sill upon which
the sash descends. This is called a window seat when broad and low
enough to be used as a seat. Stool of repentance, the cuttystool.
[Scot.] -- Stool pigeon, a pigeon used as a decoy to draw others
within a net; hence, a person used as a decoy for others.

STOOLBALL
Stool"ball`, n.

Defn: A kind of game with balls, formerly common in England, esp.
with young women.
Nausicaa With other virgins did at stoolball play. Chapman.

STOOM
Stoom, v. t. Etym: [D. stommen to adulterate, to drug (wine). *163.
Cf. Stum.]

Defn: To stum. [R.]

STOOP
Stoop, n. Etym: [D. stoep.] (Arch.)

Defn: Originally, a covered porch with seats, at a house door; the
Dutch stoep as introduced by the Dutch into New York. Afterward, an
out-of-door flight of stairs of from seven to fourteen steps, with
platform and parapets, leading to an entrance door some distance
above the street; the French perron. Hence, any porch, platform,
entrance stairway, or small veranda, at a house door. [U. S.]

STOOP
Stoop, n. Etym: [OE. stope, Icel. staup; akin to AS. steap, D. stoop,
G. stauf, OHG. stouph.]

Defn: A vessel of liquor; a flagon. [Written also stoup.]
Fetch me a stoop of liquor. Shak.

STOOP
Stoop, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. staup a knobby lump.]

Defn: A post fixed in the earth. [Prov. Eng.]

STOOP
Stoop, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stooped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stooping.] Etym:
[OE. stoupen; akin to AS. st, OD. stuypen, Icel. stupa, Sw. stupa to
fall, to tilt. Cf 5th Steep.]

1. To bend the upper part of the body downward and forward; to bend
or lean forward; to incline forward in standing or walking; to assume
habitually a bent position.

2. To yield; to submit; to bend, as by compulsion; to assume a
position of humility or subjection.
Mighty in her ships stood Carthage long, . . . Yet stooped to Rome,
less wealthy, but more strong. Dryden.
These are arts, my prince, In which your Zama does not stoop to Rome.
Addison.

3. To descend from rank or dignity; to condescend. "She stoops to
conquer." Goldsmith.
Where men of great wealth stoop to husbandry, it multiplieth riches
exceedingly. Bacon.

4. To come down as a hawk does on its prey; to pounce; to souse; to
swoop.
The bird of Jove, stooped from his aery tour, Two birds of gayest
plume before him drove. Milton.

5. To sink when on the wing; to alight.
And stoop with closing pinions from above. Dryden.
Cowering low With blandishment, each bird stooped on his wing.
Milton.

Syn.
 -- To lean; yield; submit; condescend; descend; cower; shrink.

STOOP
Stoop, v. t.

1. To bend forward and downward; to bow down; as, to stoop the body.
"Have stooped my neck." Shak.

2. To cause to incline downward; to slant; as, to stoop a cask of
liquor.

3. To cause to submit; to prostrate. [Obs.]
Many of those whose states so tempt thine ears Are stooped by death;
and many left alive. Chapman.

4. To degrade. [Obs.] Shak.

STOOP
Stoop, n.

1. The act of stooping, or bending the body forward; inclination
forward; also, an habitual bend of the back and shoulders.

2. Descent, as from dignity or superiority; condescension; an act or
position of humiliation.
Can any loyal subject see With patience such a stoop from sovereignty
Dryden.

3. The fall of a bird on its prey; a swoop. L'Estrange.

STOOPER
Stoop"er, n.

Defn: One who stoops.

STOOPING
Stoop"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Stoop.
 -- Stoop"ing*ly, adv.

STOOR
Stoor, v. i. Etym: [Cf. D. storen to disturb. Cf. Stir.]

Defn: To rise in clouds, as dust. [Prov. Eng.]

STOOR; STOR
Stoor, Stor, a. Etym: [AS. stor; akin to LG. stur, Icel. storr.]

Defn: Strong; powerful; hardy; bold; audacious. [Obs. or Scot.]
O stronge lady stoor, what doest thou Chaucer.

STOP
Stop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stopped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stopping.] Etym:
[OE. stoppen, AS. stoppian (in comp.); akin to LG. & D. stoppen, G.
stopfen, Icel. stoppa, Sw. stoppa, Dan. stoppe; all probably fr. LL.
stopare, stupare, fr. L. stuppa the coarse part of flax, tow, oakum.
Cf. Estop, Stuff, Stupe a fomentation.]

1. To close, as an aperture, by filling or by obstructing; as, to
stop the ears; hence, to stanch, as a wound. Shak.

2. To obstruct; to render impassable; as, to stop a way, road, or
passage.

3. To arrest the progress of; to hinder; to impede; to shut in; as,
to stop a traveler; to stop the course of a stream, or a flow of
blood.

4. To hinder from acting or moving; to prevent the effect or
efficiency of; to cause to cease; to repress; to restrain; to
suppress; to interrupt; to suspend; as, to stop the execution of a
decree, the progress of vice, the approaches of old age or infirmity.
Whose disposition all the world well knows Will not be rubbed nor
stopped. Shak.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: To regulate the sounds of, as musical strings, by pressing them
against the finger board with the finger, or by shortening in any way
the vibrating part.

6. To point, as a composition; to punctuate. [R.]
If his sentences were properly stopped. Landor.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: To make fast; to stopper.

Syn.
 -- To obstruct; hinder; impede; repress; suppress; restrain;
discontinue; delay; interrupt. To stop off (Founding), to fill (a
part of a mold) with sand, where a part of the cavity left by the
pattern is not wanted for the casting.
 -- To stop the mouth. See under Mouth.

STOP
Stop, v. i.

1. To cease to go on; to halt, or stand still; to come to a stop.
He bites his lip, and starts; Stops on a sudden, looks upon the
ground; Then lays his finger on his temple: strait Springs out into
fast gait; then stops again. Shak.

2. To cease from any motion, or course of action.
Stop, while ye may, suspend your mad career! Cowper.

3. To spend a short time; to reside temporarily; to stay; to tarry;
as, to stop with a friend. [Colloq.]
By stopping at home till the money was gone. R. D. Blackmore.
To stop over, to stop at a station beyond the time of the departure
of the train on which one came, with the purpose of continuing one's
journey on a subsequent train; to break one's journey. [Railroad
Cant, U.S.] stopover

STOP
Stop, n.

1. The act of stopping, or the state of being stopped; hindrance of
progress or of action; cessation; repression; interruption; check;
obstruction.
It is doubtful . . . whether it contributed anything to the stop of
the infection. De Foe.
Occult qualities put a stop to the improvement of natural philosophy.
Sir I. Newton.
It is a great step toward the mastery of our desires to give this
stop to them. Locke.

2. That which stops, impedes, or obstructs; as obstacle; an
impediment; an obstruction.
A fatal stop traversed their headlong course. Daniel.
So melancholy a prospect should inspire us with zeal to oppose some
stop to the rising torrent. Rogers.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: A device, or piece, as a pin, block, pawl, etc., for arresting
or limiting motion, or for determining the position to which another
part shall be brought.

4. (Mus.)
(a) The closing of an aperture in the air passage, or pressure of the
finger upon the string, of an instrument of music, so as to modify
the tone; hence, any contrivance by which the sounds of a musical
instrument are regulated.
The organ sound a time survives the stop. Daniel.

(b) In the organ, one of the knobs or handles at each side of the
organist, by which he can draw on or shut off any register or row of
pipes; the register itself; as, the vox humana stop.

5. (Arch.)

Defn: A member, plain or molded, formed of a separate piece and fixed
to a jamb, against which a door or window shuts. This takes the
place, or answers the purpose, of a rebate. Also, a pin or block to
prevent a drawer from sliding too far.

6. A point or mark in writing or printing intended to distinguish the
sentences, parts of a sentence, or clauses; a mark of punctuation.
See Punctuation.

7. (Opt.)

Defn: The diaphragm used in optical instruments to cut off the
marginal portions of a beam of light passing through lenses.

8. (Zool.)

Defn: The depression in the face of a dog between the skull and the
nasal bones. It is conspicuous in the bulldog, pug, and some other
breeds.

9. (Phonetics)

Defn: Some part of the articulating organs, as the lips, or the
tongue and palate, closed (a) so as to cut off the passage of breath
or voice through the mouth and the nose (distinguished as a lip-stop,
or a front-stop, etc., as in p, t, d, etc.), or (b) so as to
obstruct, but not entirely cut off, the passage, as in l, n, etc.;
also, any of the consonants so formed. H. Sweet. Stop bead (Arch.),
the molding screwed to the inner side of a window frame, on the face
of the pulley stile, completing the groove in which the inner sash is
to slide.
 -- Stop motion (Mach.), an automatic device for arresting the motion
of a machine, as when a certain operation is completed, or when an
imperfection occurs in its performance or product, or in the material
which is supplied to it, etc.
 -- Stop plank, one of a set of planks employed to form a sort of dam
in some hydraulic works.
 -- Stop valve, a valve that can be closed or opened at will, as by
hand, for preventing or regulating flow, as of a liquid in a pipe; --
in distinction from a valve which is operated by the action of the
fluid it restrains.
 -- Stop watch, a watch the hands of which can be stopped in order to
tell exactly the time that has passed, as in timing a race. See
Independent seconds watch, under Independent, a.

Syn.
 -- Cessation; check; obstruction; obstacle; hindrance; impediment;
interruption.

STOPCOCK
Stop"cock`, n.

1. A bib, faucet, or short pipe, fitted with a turning stopper or
plug for permitting or restraining the flow of a liquid or gas; a
cock or valve for checking or regulating the flow of water, gas,
etc., through or from a pipe, etc.

2. The turning plug, stopper, or spigot of a faucet. [R.]

STOPE
Stope, n. Etym: [Cf. Step, n. & v. i.] (Mining)

Defn: A horizontal working forming one of a series, the working faces
of which present the appearance of a flight of steps.

STOPE
Stope, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stoped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stoping.] (Mining)
(a) To excavate in the form of stopes.
(b) To fill in with rubbish, as a space from which the ore has been
worked out.

STOPE; STOPEN
Stope, Sto"pen, p. p. of Step.

Defn: Stepped; gone; advanced. [Obs.]
A poor widow, somedeal stope in age. Chaucer.

STOP-GAP
Stop"-gap`, n.

Defn: That which closes or fills up an opening or gap; hence, a
temporary expedient.
Moral prejudices are the stop-gaps of virtue. Hare.

STOPING
Stop"ing, n. (Mining)

Defn: The act of excavating in the form of stopes.

STOPLESS
Stop"less, a.

Defn: Not to be stopped. Davenant.

STOP ORDER
Stop order. (Finance)

Defn: An order that aims to limit losses by fixing a figure at which
purchases shall be sold or sales bought in, as where stock is bought
at 100 and the broker is directed to sell if the market price drops
to 98.

STOP-OVER
Stop"-o`ver, a.

Defn: Permitting one to stop over; as, a stop-over check or ticket.
See To stop over, under Stop, v. i. [Railroad Cant, U.S.]

STOPPAGE
Stop"page, n.

Defn: The act of stopping, or arresting progress, motion, or action;
also, the state of being stopped; as, the stoppage of the circulation
of the blood; the stoppage of commerce.

STOPPED
Stopped, a. (Phonetics)

Defn: Made by complete closure of the mouth organs; shut; -- said of
certain consonants (p, b, t, d, etc.). H. Sweet.

STOPPER
Stop"per, n.

1. One who stops, closes, shuts, or hinders; that which stops or
obstructs; that which closes or fills a vent or hole in a vessel.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A short piece of rope having a knot at one or both ends, with a
lanyard under the knot, -- used to secure something. Totten.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A name to several trees of the genus Eugenia, found in Florida
and the West Indies; as, the red stopper. See Eugenia. C. S. Sargent.
Ring stopper (Naut.), a short rope or chain passing through the
anchor ring, to secure the anchor to the cathead.
 -- Stopper bolt (Naut.), a large ringbolt in a ship's deck, to which
the deck stoppers are hooked.

STOPPER
Stop"per, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stoppered; p. pr. & vb. n. Stoppering.]

Defn: To close or secure with a stopper.

STOPPING
Stop"ping, n.

1. Material for filling a cavity.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A partition or door to direct or prevent a current of air.

3. (Far.)

Defn: A pad or poultice of dung or other material applied to a
horse's hoof to keep it moist. Youatt.

STOPPING-OUT
Stop"ping-out`, n.

Defn: A method adopted in etching, to keep the acid from those parts
which are already sufficiently corroded, by applying varnish or other
covering matter with a brush, but allowing the acid to act on the
other parts.

STOPPLE
Stop"ple, n. Etym: [Cf. G. stopfel, stopsel. See Stop, n. & v. t.]

Defn: That which stops or closes the mouth of a vessel; a stopper;
as, a glass stopple; a cork stopple.

STOPPLE
Stop"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stoppled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stoppling.]

Defn: To close the mouth of anything with a stopple, or as with a
stopple. Cowper.

STOPSHIP
Stop"ship`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A remora. It was fabled to stop ships by attaching itself to
them. Sylvester.

STOR
Stor, a.

Defn: See Stoor. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STORAGE
Stor"age, n.

1. The act of depositing in a store or warehouse for safe keeping;
also, the safe keeping of goods in a warehouse.

2. Space for the safe keeping of goods.

3. The price changed for keeping goods in a store. Storage battery.
(Physics) See the Note under Battery.

STORAX
Sto"rax, n. Etym: [L. storax, styrax, Gr. Styrax.]

Defn: Any one of a number of similar complex resins obtained from the
bark of several trees and shrubs of the Styrax family. The most
common of these is liquid storax, a brown or gray semifluid substance
of an agreeable aromatic odor and balsamic taste, sometimes used in
perfumery, and in medicine as an expectorant.

Note: A yellow aromatic honeylike substance, resembling, and often
confounded with, storax, is obtained from the American sweet gum tree
(Liquidambar styraciflua), and is much used as a chewing gum, called
sweet gum, and liquid storax. Cf. Liquidambar.

STORE
Store, n. Etym: [OE. stor, stoor, OF. estor, provisions, supplies,
fr. estorer to store. See Store, v. t.]

1. That which is accumulated, or massed together; a source from which
supplies may be drawn; hence, an abundance; a great quantity, or a
great number.
The ships are fraught with store of victuals. Bacon.
With store of ladies, whose bright eyes Rain influence, and give the
prize. Milton.

2. A place of deposit for goods, esp. for large quantities; a
storehouse; a warehouse; a magazine.

3. Any place where goods are sold, whether by wholesale or retail; a
shop. [U.S. & British Colonies]

4. pl.

Defn: Articles, especially of food, accumulated for some specific
object; supplies, as of provisions, arms, ammunition, and the like;
as, the stores of an army, of a ship, of a family.
His swine, his horse, his stoor, and his poultry. Chaucer.
In store, in a state of accumulation; in keeping; hence, in a state
of readiness. "I have better news in store for thee." Shak.
 -- Store clothes, clothing purchased at a shop or store; -- in
distinction from that which is home-made. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Store
pay, payment for goods or work in articles from a shop or store,
instead of money. [U.S.] -- To set store by, to value greatly; to
have a high appreciation of.
 -- To tell no store of, to make no account of; to consider of no
importance.

Syn.
 -- Fund; supply; abundance; plenty; accumulation; provision.
 -- Store, Shop. The English call the place where goods are sold
(however large or splendid it may be) a shop, and confine the word
store to its original meaning; viz., a warehouse, or place where
goods are stored. In America the word store is applied to all places,
except the smallest, where goods are sold. In some British colonies
the word store is used as in the United States.
In his needy shop a tortoise hung, An alligator stuffed, and other
skins Of ill-shaped fishes; and about his shelves A beggarly account
of empty boxes. Shak.
Sulphurous and nitrous foam, . . . Concocted and adjusted, they
reduced To blackest grain, and into store conveyed. Milton.

STORE
Store, a.

Defn: Accumulated; hoarded. Bacon.

STORE
Store, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stored; p. pr. & vb. n. Storing.] Etym:
[OE. storen, OF. estorer to construct, restore, store, LL. staurare,
for L. instaurare to renew, restore; in + staurare (in comp.) Cf.
Instore, Instaurate, Restore, Story a floor.]

1. To collect as a reserved supply; to accumulate; to lay away.
Dora stored what little she could save. Tennyson.

2. To furnish; to supply; to replenish; esp., to stock or furnish
against a future time.
Her mind with thousand virtues stored. Prior.
Wise Plato said the world with men was stored. Denham.
Having stored a pond of four acres with carps, tench, and other fish.
Sir M. Hale.

3. To deposit in a store, warehouse, or other building, for
preservation; to warehouse; as, to store goods.

STORED
Stored, a.

Defn: Collected or accumulated as a reserve supply; as, stored
electricity.
It is charged with stored virtue. Bagehot.

STOREHOUSE
Store"house`, n.

1. A building for keeping goods of any kind, especially provisions; a
magazine; a repository; a warehouse.
Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold unto Egyptians. Gen. xli.
56.
The Scripture of God is a storehouse abounding with estimable
treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Hooker.

2. A mass or quality laid up. [Obs.] Spenser.

STOREKEEPER
Store"keep`er, n.

1. A man in charge of stores or goods of any kind; as, a naval
storekeeper.

2. One who keeps a "store;" a shopkeeper. See 1st Store, 3. [U. S.]

STORER
Stor"er, n.

Defn: One who lays up or forms a store.

STOREROOM
Store"room`, n.

Defn: Room in a storehouse or repository; a room in which articles
are stored.

STORESHIP
Store"ship`, n.

Defn: A vessel used to carry naval stores for a fleet, garrison, or
the like.

STOREY
Sto"rey, n.

Defn: See Story.

STORGE
Stor"ge, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

Defn: Parental affection; the instinctive affection which animals
have for their young.

STORIAL
Sto"ri*al, a.

Defn: Historical. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STORIED
Sto"ried, a. Etym: [From Story.]

1. Told in a story.

2. Having a history; interesting from the stories which pertain to
it; venerable from the associations of the past.
Some greedy minion, or imperious wife, The trophied arches, storied
halls, invade. Pope.
Can storied urn, or animated bust, Back to its mansion call the
fleeting breath Gray.

3. Having (such or so many) stories; -- chiefly in composition; as, a
two-storied house.

STORIER
Sto"ri*er, n.

Defn: A relater of stories; an historian. [Obs.] Bp. Peacock.

STORIFY
Sto"ri*fy, v. t. Etym: [Story + -fy.]

Defn: To form or tell stories of; to narrate or describe in a story.
[Obs.]

STORK
Stork, n. Etym: [AS. storc; akin to G. storch, OHG. storah, Icel.
storkr, Dan. & Sw. stork, and perhaps to Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large wading birds of the family
Ciconid?, having long legs and a long, pointed bill. They are found
both in the Old World and in America, and belong to Ciconia and
several allied genera. The European white stork (Ciconia alba) is the
best known. It commonly makes its nests on the top of a building, a
chimney, a church spire, or a pillar. The black stork (C. nigra) is
native of Asia, Africa, and Europe. Black-necked stork, the East
Indian jabiru.
 -- Hair-crested stork, the smaller adjutant of India (Leptoptilos
Javanica).
 -- Giant stork, the adjutant.
 -- Marabou stork. See Marabou.
 -- Saddle-billed stork, the African jabiru. See Jabiru.
 -- Stork's bill (Bot.), any plant of the genus Pelargonium; -- so
called in allusion to the beaklike prolongation of the axis of the
receptacle of its flower. See Pelargonium.

STORK-BILLED
Stork"-billed`, a.

Defn: Having a bill like that of the stork.

STORM
Storm, n. Etym: [AS. storm; akin to D. storm, G. sturm, Icel. stormr;
and perhaps to Gr. s to flow, to hasten, or perhaps to L. sternere to
strew, prostrate (cf. Stratum). *166.]

1. A violent disturbance of the atmosphere, attended by wind, rain,
snow, hail, or thunder and lightning; hence, often, a heavy fall of
rain, snow, or hail, whether accompanied with wind or not.
We hear this fearful tempest sing, Yet seek no shelter to avoid the
storm. Shak.

2. A violent agitation of human society; a civil, political, or
domestic commotion; sedition, insurrection, or war; violent outbreak;
clamor; tumult.
I will stir up in England some black storm. Shak.
Her sister Began to scold and raise up such a storm. Shak.

3. A heavy shower or fall, any adverse outburst of tumultuous force;
violence.
A brave man struggling in the storms of fate. Pope.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A violent assault on a fortified place; a furious attempt of
troops to enter and take a fortified place by scaling the walls,
forcing the gates, or the like.

Note: Storm is often used in the formation of self-explained
compounds; as, storm-presaging, stormproof, storm-tossed, and the
like. Magnetic storm. See under Magnetic.
 -- Storm-and-stress period Etym: [a translation of G. sturm und
drang periode], a designation given to the literary agitation and
revolutionary development in Germany under the lead of Goethe and
Schiller in the latter part of the 18th century.
 -- Storm center (Meteorol.), the center of the area covered by a
storm, especially by a storm of large extent.
 -- Storm door (Arch.), an extra outside door to prevent the entrance
of wind, cold, rain, etc.; -- usually removed in summer.
 -- Storm path (Meteorol.), the course over which a storm, or storm
center, travels.
 -- Storm petrel. (Zool.) See Stormy petrel, under Petrel.
 -- Storm sail (Naut.), any one of a number of strong, heavy sails
that are bent and set in stormy weather.
 -- Storm scud. See the Note under Cloud.

Syn.
 -- Tempest; violence; agitation; calamity.
 -- Storm, Tempest. Storm is violent agitation, a commotion of the
elements by wind, etc., but not necessarily implying the fall of
anything from the clouds. Hence, to call a mere fall or rain without
wind a storm is a departure from the true sense of the word. A
tempest is a sudden and violent storm, such as those common on the
coast of Italy, where the term originated, and is usually attended by
a heavy rain, with lightning and thunder.
Storms beat, and rolls the main; O! beat those storms, and roll the
seas, in vain. Pope.
What at first was called a gust, the same Hath now a storm's, anon a
tempest's name. Donne.

STORM
Storm, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stormed; p. pr. & vb. n. Storming.] (Mil.)

Defn: To assault; to attack, and attempt to take, by scaling walls,
forcing gates, breaches, or the like; as, to storm a fortified town.

STORM
Storm, v. i. Etym: [Cf. AS. styrman.]

1. To raise a tempest. Spenser.

2. To blow with violence; also, to rain, hail, snow, or the like,
usually in a violent manner, or with high wind; -- used impersonally;
as, it storms.

3. To rage; to be in a violent passion; to fume.
The master storms, the lady scolds. Swift.

STORM-BEAT
Storm"-beat`, a.

Defn: Beaten, injured, or impaired by storms. Spenser.

STORMCOCK
Storm"cock`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The missel thrush.
(b) The fieldfare.
(c) The green woodpecker.

STORMFINCH
Storm"finch`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The storm petrel.

STORMFUL
Storm"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding with storms. "The stormful east." Carlyle.
 -- Storm"ful*ness, n.

STORMGLASS
Storm"glass`, n.

Defn: A glass vessel, usually cylindrical, filled with a solution
which is sensitive to atmospheric changes, indicating by a clouded
appearance, rain, snow, etc., and by clearness, fair weather.

STORMILY
Storm"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stormy manner.

STORMINESS
Storm"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being stormy; tempestuousness; biosteruousness;
impetuousness.

STORMING
Storm"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Storm, v. Storming party (Mil.), a party assigned to the
duty of making the first assault in storming a fortress.

STORMLESS
Storm"less, a.

Defn: Without storms. Tennyson.

STORMWIND
Storm"wind`, n.

Defn: A heavy wind; a wind that brings a storm; the blast of a storm.
Longfellow.

STORMY
Storm"y, a. [Compar. Stormier; superl. Stormiest.]

1. Characterized by, or proceeding from, a storm; subject to storms;
agitated with furious winds; biosterous; tempestous; as, a stormy
season; a stormy day or week. "Beyond the stormy Hebrides." Milton.

2. Proceeding from violent agitation or fury; as, a stormy sound;
stormy shocks.

3. Violent; passionate; rough; as, stormy passions.
Stormy chiefs of a desert but extensive domain. Sir W. Scott.

STORTHING
Stor"thing, n. Etym: [Norw. storting; stor great + ting court, court
of justice; cf. Dan. ting, thing.]

Defn: The Parliament of Norway, chosen by indirect election once in
three years, but holding annual sessions.

STORVEN
Stor"ven, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Starve. Chaucer.

STORY
Sto"ry, n.; pl. Stories. Etym: [OF. estore, estoree, built, erected,
p.p. of estorer to build, restore, to store. See Store, v. t.]

Defn: A set of rooms on the same floor or level; a floor, or the
space between two floors. Also, a horizontal division of a building's
exterior considered architecturally, which need not correspond
exactly with the stories within. [Written also storey.]

Note: A story comprehends the distance from one floor to another; as,
a story of nine or ten feet elevation. The spaces between floors are
numbered in order, from below upward; as, the lower, second, or third
story; a house of one story, of two stories, of five stories. Story
post (Arch.), a vertical post used to support a floor or
superincumbent wall.

STORY
Sto"ry, n. Etym: [OE. storie, OF. estoire, F. histoire, fr. L.
historia. See History.]

1. A narration or recital of that which has occurred; a description
of past events; a history; a statement; a record.
One malcontent who did indeed get a name in story. Barrow.
Venice, with its unique city and its Impressive story. Ed. Rev.
The four great monarchies make the subject of ancient story. Sir W.
Temple.

2. The relation of an incident or minor event; a short narrative; a
tale; especially, a fictitious narrative less elaborate than a novel;
a short romance. Addison.

3. A euphemism or child's word for "a lie;" a fib; as, to tell a
story. [Colloq.]

STORY
Sto"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Storied; p. pr. & vb. n. Storying.]

Defn: To tell in historical relation; to make the subject of a story;
to narrate or describe in story.
How worthy he is I will leave to appear hereafter, rather than story
him in his own hearing. Shak.
It is storied of the brazen colossus in Rhodes, that it was seventy
cubits high. Bp. Wilkins.

STORYBOOK
Sto"ry*book`, n.

Defn: A book containing stories, or short narratives, either true or
false.

STORY-TELLER
Sto"ry-tell`er, n.

1. One who tells stories; a narrator of anecdotes,incidents, or
fictitious tales; as, an amusing story-teller.

2. An historian; -- in contempt. Swift.

3. A euphemism or child's word for "a liar."

STORY-TELLING
Sto"ry-tell`ing, a.

Defn: Being accustomed to tell stories.
 -- n.

Defn: The act or practice of telling stories.

STORY-WRITER
Sto"ry-writ`er, n.

1. One who writes short stories, as for magazines.

2. An historian; a chronicler. [Obs.] "Rathums, the story-writer." 1
Esdr. ii. 17.

STOT
Stot, n. Etym: [AS. stotte a hack, jade, or worthless horse; cf. Sw.
stut a bull, Dan. stud an ox. Cf. Stoat.]

1. A horse. [Obs.] Chaucer. Thorold Rogers.

2. A young bull or ox, especially one three years old. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.]

STOTE
Stote, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Stoat.

STOUND
Stound, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Astound, Stun.]

Defn: To be in pain or sorrow. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STOUND
Stound, a. Etym: [See Stound, v. i.]

Defn: Stunned. [Obs.]

STOUND
Stound, n.

1. A sudden, severe pain or grief; peril; alarm. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. Astonishment; amazement. [Obs.] Spenser. Gay.

STOUND
Stound, n. Etym: [AS. stund; akin to D. stond, G. stunde, Icel.
stund.]

1. Hour; time; season. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. A brief space of time; a moment. [Obs.] Chaucer. In a stound,
suddenly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STOUND
Stound, n. Etym: [Cf. Stand.]

Defn: A vessel for holding small beer. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STOUP
Stoup, n. Etym: [See Stoop a vessel.]

1. A flagon; a vessel or measure for liquids. [Scot.]

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A basin at the entrance of Roman Catholic churches for
containing the holy water with which those who enter, dipping their
fingers in it, cross themselves; -- called also holy-water stoup.

STOUR
Stour, n. Etym: [OF. estour, estor, tumult, combat, of Teutonic
origin. See Storm.]

Defn: A battle or tumult; encounter; combat; disturbance; passion.
[Obs.] Fairfax. "That woeful stowre." Spenser.
She that helmed was in starke stours [fierce conflicts]. Chaucer.

STOUR
Stour, a. Etym: [See Stoor, a.]

Defn: Tall; strong; stern. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STOUT
Stout, a. [Compar. Stouter; superl. Stoutest.] Etym: [D. stout bold
(or OF. estout bold, proud, of Teutonic origin); akin to AS. stolt,
G. stolz, and perh. to E. stilt.]

1. Strong; lusty; vigorous; robust; sinewy; muscular; hence, firm;
resolute; dauntless.
With hearts stern and stout. Chaucer.
A stouter champion never handled sword. Shak.
He lost the character of a bold, stout, magnanimous man. Clarendon.
The lords all stand To clear their cause, most resolutely stout.
Daniel.

2. Proud; haughty; arrogant; hard. [Archaic]
Your words have been stout against me. Mal. iii. 13.
Commonly . . . they that be rich are lofty and stout. Latimer.

3. Firm; tough; materially strong; enduring; as, a stout vessel,
stick, string, or cloth.

4. Large; bulky; corpulent.

Syn.
 -- Stout, Corpulent, Portly. Corpulent has reference simply to a
superabundance or excess of flesh. Portly implies a kind of stoutness
or corpulence which gives a dignified or imposing appearance. Stout,
in our early writers (as in the English Bible), was used chiefly or
wholly in the sense of strong or bold; as, a stout champion; a stout
heart; a stout resistance, etc. At a later period it was used for
thickset or bulky, and more recently, especially in England, the idea
has been carried still further, so that Taylor says in his Synonyms:
"The stout man has the proportions of an ox; he is corpulent, fat,
and fleshy in relation to his size." In America, stout is still
commonly used in the original sense of strong as, a stout boy; a
stout pole.

STOUT
Stout, n.

Defn: A strong malt liquor; strong porter. Swift.

STOUT-HEARTED
Stout"-heart"ed, a.

Defn: Having a brave heart; courageous.
 -- Stout"-heart"ed*ness, n.

STOUTISH
Stout"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat stout; somewhat corpulent.

STOUTLY
Stout"ly, adv.

Defn: In a stout manner; lustily; boldly; obstinately; as, he stoutly
defended himself.

STOUTNESS
Stout"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being stout.

Syn.
 -- Strength; bulk; courage; force; valor; lustiness; brawniness;
boldness; fortitude; stubbornness.

STOVAIN; STOVAINE
Sto"va*in, n. Also -ine. [Stove (a translation of the name of the
discoverer, Fourneau + -in, -ine.] (Pharm.)

Defn: A substance, C14H22O2NCl, the hydrochloride of an amino
compound containing benzol, used, in solution with strychnine, as a
local an?sthetic, esp. by injection into the sheath of the spinal
cord, producing an?sthesia below the point of introduction.

STOVE
Stove,

Defn: imp. of Stave.

STOVE
Stove, n. Etym: [D. stoof a foot stove, originally, a heated room, a
room for a bath; akin to G. stube room, OHG. stuba a heated room, AS.
stofe, Icel. stofa a room, bathing room, Sw. stufva, stuga, a room,
Dan. stue; of unknown origin. Cf. Estufa, Stew, Stufa.]

1. A house or room artificially warmed or heated; a forcing house, or
hothouse; a drying room; -- formerly, designating an artificially
warmed dwelling or room, a parlor, or a bathroom, but now restricted,
in this sense, to heated houses or rooms used for horticultural
purposes or in the processes of the arts.
When most of the waiters were commanded away to their supper, the
parlor or stove being nearly emptied, in came a company of
musketeers. Earl of Strafford.
How tedious is it to them that live in stoves and caves half a year
together, as in Iceland, Muscovy, or under the pole! Burton.

2. An apparatus, consisting essentially of a receptacle for fuel,
made of iron, brick, stone, or tiles, and variously constructed, in
which fire is made or kept for warming a room or a house, or for
culinary or other purposes. Cooking stove, a stove with an oven,
opening for pots, kettles, and the like, -- used for cooking.
 -- Dry stove. See under Dry.
 -- Foot stove. See under Foot.
 -- Franklin stove. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Stove plant (Bot.), a plant which requires artificial heat to
make it grow in cold or cold temperate climates.
 -- Stove plate, thin iron castings for the parts of stoves.

STOVE
Stove, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stoved; p. pr. & vb. n. Stoving.]

1. To keep warm, in a house or room, by artificial heat; as, to stove
orange trees. Bacon.

2. To heat or dry, as in a stove; as, to stove feathers.

STOVEHOUSE
Stove"house`, n.

Defn: A hothouse.

STOVEPIPE
Stove"pipe`, n.

Defn: Pipe made of sheet iron in length and angular or curved pieces
fitting together, -- used to connect a portable stove with a chimney
flue. Stovepipe hat, the common tall silk hat. [Slang, U.S.]

STOVER
Sto"ver, n. Etym: [OE. estoveir, estovoir, necessity, provisions,
properly an inf., "to be necessary." Cf. Estovers.]

Defn: Fodder for cattle, especially straw or coarse hay.
Where live nibbling sheep, And flat meads thatched with stover them
to keep. Shak.
Thresh barley as yet but as need shall require, Fresh threshed for
stover thy cattle desire. Tusser.

STOW
Stow, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stowing.] Etym:
[OE. stowen, fr. stowe a place, AS. stow; cf. Icel. eldstoa
fireplace, hearth, OFries. sto, and E. stand. *163.]

1. To place or arrange in a compact mass; to put in its proper place,
or in a suitable place; to pack; as, to stowbags, bales, or casks in
a ship's hold; to stow hay in a mow; to stow sheaves.
Some stow their oars, or stop the leaky sides. Dryden.

2. To put away in some place; to hide; to lodge.
Foul thief! where hast thou stowed my daughter Shak.

3. To arrange anything compactly in; to fill, by packing closely; as,
to stow a box, car, or the hold of a ship.

STOWAGE
Stow"age, n.

1. The act or method of stowing; as, the stowage of provisions in a
vessel.

2. Room in which things may be stowed. Cook.
In every vessel is stowage for immense treasures. Addison.

3. The state of being stowed, or put away. "To have them in safe
stowage." Shak.

4. Things stowed or packed. Beau. & Fl.

5. Money paid for stowing goods.

STOWAWAY
Stow"a*way`, n.

Defn: One who conceals himself board of a vessel about to leave port,
or on a railway train, in order to obtain a free passage.

STOWBOARD
Stow"board, n.

Defn: A place into which rubbish is put. [Written also stowbord.]

STOWCE
Stowce, n. (Mining)
(a) A windlass.
(b) A wooden landmark, to indicate possession of mining land.

STOWING
Stow"ing, n. (Mining)

Defn: A method of working in which the waste is packed into the space
formed by excavating the vein.

STOWRE
Stowre, a.

Defn: See Stour, a. [Obs.]

STOWRE
Stowre, n.

Defn: See Stour, n. [Obs.] Spenser.

STRABISM
Stra"bism, n. (Med.)

Defn: Strabismus.

STRABISMOMETER
Stra`bis*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Strabismus + -meter.] (Med.)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the amount of strabismus.

STRABISMUS
Stra*bis"mus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: An affection of one or both eyes, in which the optic axes can
not be directed to the same object, -- a defect due either to undue
contraction or to undue relaxation of one or more of the muscles
which move the eyeball; squinting; cross-eye.

STRABOTOMY
Stra*bot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation for the removal of squinting by the division of
such muscles as distort the eyeball.

STRADDLE
Strad"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Straddled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Straddling.] Etym: [Freq. from the root of stride.]

1. To part the legs wide; to stand or to walk with the legs far
apart.

2. To stand with the ends staggered; -- said of the spokes of a wagon
wheel where they join the hub.

STRADDLE
Strad"dle, v. t.

Defn: To place one leg on one side and the other on the other side
of; to stand or sit astride of; as, to straddle a fence or a horse.

STRADDLE
Strad"dle, n.

1. The act of standing, sitting, or walking, with the feet far apart.

2. The position, or the distance between the feet, of one who
straddles; as, a wide straddle.

3. A stock option giving the holder the double privilege of a "put"
and a "call," i. e., securing to the buyer of the option the right
either to demand of the seller at a certain price, within a certain
time, certain securities, or to require him to take at the same
price, and within the same time, the same securities. [Broker's Cant]

STRADDLING
Strad"dling, a.

Defn: Applied to spokes when they are arranged alternately in two
circles in the hub. See Straddle, v. i., and Straddle, v. t., 3.
Knight.

STRADOMETRICAL
Strad`o*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [It. strada street or road + E.
metrical.]

Defn: Of, or relating to, the measuring of streets or roads. [R.]

STRAGGLE
Strag"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Straggled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Straggling.] Etym: [Freq. of OE. straken to roam, to stroke. See
Stroke, v. t.]

1. To wander from the direct course or way; to rove; to stray; to
wander from the line of march or desert the line of battle; as, when
troops are on the march, the men should not straggle. Dryden.

2. To wander at large; to roam idly about; to ramble.
The wolf spied out a straggling kid. L'Estrange.

3. To escape or stretch beyond proper limits, as the branches of a
plant; to spread widely apart; to shoot too far or widely in growth.
Trim off the small, superfluous branches on each side of the hedge
that straggle too far out. Mortimer.

4. To be dispersed or separated; to occur at intervals. "Straggling
pistol shots." Sir W. Scott.
They came between Scylla and Charybdis and the straggling rocks. Sir
W. Raleigh.

STRAGGLE
Strag"gle, n.

Defn: The act of straggling. [R.] Carlyle.

STRAGGLER
Strag"gler, n.

1. One who straggles, or departs from the direct or proper course, or
from the company to which he belongs; one who falls behind the rest;
one who rambles without any settled direction.

2. A roving vagabond. Shak.

3. Something that shoots, or spreads out, beyond the rest, or too
far; an exuberant growth.
Let thy hand supply the pruning knife, And crop luxuriant stragglers.
Dryden.

4. Something that stands alone or by itself.

STRAGGLING
Strag"gling, a. & n.

Defn: from Straggle, v.

STRAGGLINGLY
Strag"gling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a straggling manner.

STRAGULUM
Strag"u*lum, n.; pl. Stragula. Etym: [L., a spread or covering, from
sternere to spread out.] (Zool.)

Defn: The mantle, or pallium, of a bird.

STRAIGHT
Straight, a.

Defn: A variant of Strait, a. [Obs. or R.]
Egypt is a long country, but it is straight, that is to say, narrow.
Sir J. Mandeville.

STRAIGHT
Straight, a. [Compar. Straighter; superl. Straightest.] Etym: [OE.
strei, properly p.p. of strecchen to stretch, AS. streht, p.p. of
streccan to stretch, to extend. See Stretch.]

1. Right, in a mathematical sense; passing from one point to another
by the nearest course; direct; not deviating or crooked; as, a
straight line or course; a straight piece of timber.
And the crooked shall be made straight. Isa. xl. 4.
There are many several sorts of crooked lines, but there is only one
which is straight. Dryden.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Approximately straight; not much curved; as, straight ribs are
such as pass from the base of a leaf to the apex, with a small curve.

3. (Card Playing)

Defn: Composed of cards which constitute a regular sequence, as the
ace, king, queen, jack, and ten-spot; as, a straight hand; a straight
flush.

4. Conforming to justice and rectitude; not deviating from truth or
fairness; upright; as, straight dealing.

5. Unmixed; undiluted; as, to take liquor straight. [Slang]

6. Making no exceptions or deviations in one's support of the
organization and candidates of a political party; as, a straight
Republican; a straight Democrat; also, containing the names of all
the regularly nominated candidates of a party and no others; as, a
straight ballot. [Political Cant, U.S.] Straight arch (Arch.), a form
of arch in which the intrados is straight, but with its joints drawn
radially, as in a common arch.
 -- A straight face, one giving no evidence of merriment or other
emotion.
 -- A straight line. "That which lies evenly between its extreme
points." Euclid. "The shortest line between two points." Chauvenet.
"A line which has the same direction through its whole length."
Newcomb.
 -- Straight-way valve, a valve which, when opened widely, affords a
straight passageway, as for water. walk the straight and narrow.

STRAIGHT
Straight, adv.

Defn: In a straight manner; directly; rightly; forthwith;
immediately; as, the arrow went straight to the mark. "Floating
straight." Shak.
I know thy generous temper well; Fling but the appearance of dishonor
on it, It straight takes fire, and mounts into a blaze. Addison.
Everything was going on straight. W. Black.

STRAIGHT
Straight, n. (Poker)

Defn: A hand of five cards in consecutive order as to value; a
sequence. When they are of one suit, it is calles straight flush.

STRAIGHT
Straight, v. t.

Defn: To straighten. [R.] A Smith.

STRAIGHTEDGE
Straight"edge`, n.

Defn: A board, or piece of wood or metal, having one edge perfectly
straight, -- used to ascertain whether a line is straight or a
surface even, and for drawing straight lines.

STRAIGHTEN
Straight"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Straighted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Straighting.]

1. To make straight; to reduce from a crooked to a straight form.

2. To make right or correct; to reduce to order; as, to straighten
one's affairs; to straighten an account. To straighten one's face, to
cease laughing or smiling, etc., and compose one's features.

STRAIGHTEN
Straight"en, v. t.

Defn: A variant of Straiten. [Obs. or R.]

STRAIGHTENER
Straight"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, straightens.

STRAIGHTFORTH
Straight"forth`, adv.

Defn: Straightway. [Obs.]

STRAIGHTFORWARD
Straight`for"ward, a.

Defn: Proceeding in a straight course or manner; not deviating;
honest; frank.
 -- adv.

Defn: In a straightforward manner.
 -- Straight`for"ward*ly, adv.
 -- Straight`for"ward*ness, n.

STRAIGHTHORN
Straight"horn`, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: An orthoceras.

STRAIGHT-JOINT
Straight"-joint`, a. (Arch.)

Defn: Having straight joints. Specifically:
(a) Applied to a floor the boards of which are so laid that the
joints form a continued line transverse to the length of the boards
themselves. Brandle & C.
(b) In the United States, applied to planking or flooring put
together without the tongue and groove, the pieces being laid edge to
edge.

STRAIGHT-LINED
Straight"-lined`, a.

Defn: Having straight lines.

STRAIGHTLY
Straight"ly, adv.

Defn: In a right line; not crookedly.

STRAIGHTLY
Straight"ly, adv.

Defn: A variant of Straitly. See 1st Straight.

STRAIGHTNESS
Straight"ness, n.

Defn: The quality, condition, or state, of being straight; as, the
straightness of a path.

STRAIGHTNESS
Straight"ness, n.

Defn: A variant of Straitness.

STRAIGHT-OUT
Straight"-out`, a.

Defn: Acting without concealment, obliquity, or compromise; hence,
unqualified; thoroughgoing. [Colloq. U.S.]
Straight-out and generous indignation. Mrs. Stowe.

STRAIGHT-PIGHT
Straight"-pight`, a.

Defn: Straight in form or upright in position; erect. [Obs.] Shak.

STRAIGHT-SPOKEN
Straight"-spo`ken, a.

Defn: Speaking with directness; plain-spoken. [Colloq. U.S.] Lowell.

STRAIGHTWAY
Straight"way`, adv.

Defn: Immediately; without loss of time; without delay.
He took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha cumi. . .
. And straightway the damsel arose. Mark v. 41,42.

STRAIGHTWAYS
Straight"ways`, adv.

Defn: Straightway. [Obs.]

STRAIK
Straik, n.

Defn: A strake.

STRAIN
Strain, n. Etym: [See Strene.]

1. Race; stock; generation; descent; family.
He is of a noble strain. Shak.
With animals and plants a cross between different varieties, or
between individuals of the same variety but of another strain, gives
vigor and fertility to the offspring. Darwin.

2. Hereditary character, quality, or disposition.
Intemperance and lust breed diseases, which, propogated, spoil the
strain of nation. Tillotson.

3. Rank; a sort. "The common strain." Dryden.

STRAIN
Strain, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strained; p. pr. & vb. n. Straining.]
Etym: [OF. estraindre, estreindre, F. etreindre, L. stringere to draw
or bind tight; probably akin to Gr. strike. Cf. Strangle, Strike,
Constrain, District, Strait, a. Stress, Strict, Stringent.]

1. To draw with force; to extend with great effort; to stretch; as,
to strain a rope; to strain the shrouds of a ship; to strain the
cords of a musical instrument. "To strain his fetters with a stricter
care." Dryden.

2. (Mech.)

Defn: To act upon, in any way, so as to cause change of form or
volume, as forces on a beam to bend it.

3. To exert to the utmost; to ply vigorously.
He sweats, Strains his young nerves. Shak.
They strain their warbling throats To welcome in the spring. Dryden.

4. To stretch beyond its proper limit; to do violence to, in the
matter of intent or meaning; as, to strain the law in order to
convict an accused person.
There can be no other meaning in this expression, however some may
pretend to strain it. Swift.

5. To injure by drawing, stretching, or the exertion of force; as,
the gale strained the timbers of the ship.

6. To injure in the muscles or joints by causing to make too strong
an effort; to harm by overexertion; to sprain; as, to strain a horse
by overloading; to strain the wrist; to strain a muscle.
Prudes decayed about may track, Strain their necks with looking back.
Swift.

7. To squeeze; to press closely.
Evander with a close embrace Strained his departing friend. Dryden.

8. To make uneasy or unnatural; to produce with apparent effort; to
force; to constrain.
He talks and plays with Fatima, but his mirth Is forced and strained.
Denham.
The quality of mercy is not strained. Shak.

9. To urge with importunity; to press; as, to strain a petition or
invitation.
Note, if your lady strain his entertainment. Shak.

10. To press, or cause to pass, through a strainer, as through a
screen, a cloth, or some porous substance; to purify, or separate
from extraneous or solid matter, by filtration; to filter; as, to
strain milk through cloth. To strain a point, to make a special
effort; especially, to do a degree of violence to some principle or
to one's own feelings.
 -- To strain courtesy, to go beyond what courtesy requires; to
insist somewhat too much upon the precedence of others; -- often used
ironically. Shak.

STRAIN
Strain, v. i.

1. To make violent efforts. "Straining with too weak a wing." Pope.
To build his fortune I will strain a little. Shak.

2. To percolate; to be filtered; as, water straining through a sandy
soil.

STRAIN
Strain, n.

1. The act of straining, or the state of being strained.
Specifically: --
(a) A violent effort; an excessive and hurtful exertion or tension,
as of the muscles; as, he lifted the weight with a strain the strain
upon a ship's rigging in a gale; also, the hurt or injury resulting;
a sprain.
Whether any poet of our country since Shakespeare has exerted a
greater variety of powers with less strain and less ostentation.
Landor.
Credit is gained by custom, and seldom recovers a strain. Sir W.
Temple.
(b) (Mech. Physics)

Defn: A change of form or dimensions of a solid or liquid mass,
produced by a stress. Rankine.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A portion of music divided off by a double bar; a complete
musical period or sentence; a movement, or any rounded subdivision of
a movement.
Their heavenly harps a lower strain began. Dryden.

3. Any sustained note or movement; a song; a distinct portion of an
ode or other poem; also, the pervading note, or burden, of a song,
poem, oration, book, etc.; theme; motive; manner; style; also, a
course of action or conduct; as, he spoke in a noble strain; there
was a strain of woe in his story; a strain of trickery appears in his
career. "A strain of gallantry." Sir W. Scott.
Such take too high a strain at first. Bacon.
The genius and strain of the book of Proverbs. Tillotson.
It [Pilgrim's Progress] seems a novelty, and yet contains Nothing but
sound and honest gospel strains. Bunyan.

4. Turn; tendency; inborn disposition. Cf. 1st Strain.
Because heretics have a strain of madness, he applied her with some
corporal chastisements. Hayward.

STRAINABLE
Strain"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being strained.

2. Violent in action. Holinshed.

STRAINABLY
Strain"a*bly, adv.

Defn: Violently. Holinshed.

STRAINED
Strained, a.

1. Subjected to great or excessive tension; wrenched; weakened; as,
strained relations between old friends.

2. Done or produced with straining or excessive effort; as, his wit
was strained.

STRAINER
Strain"er, n.

1. One who strains.

2. That through which any liquid is passed for purification or to
separate it from solid matter; anything, as a screen or a cloth, used
to strain a liquid; a device of the character of a sieve or of a
filter; specifically, an openwork or perforated screen, as for the
end of the suctionpipe of a pump, to prevent large solid bodies from
entering with a liquid.

STRAINING
Strain"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Strain. Straining piece (Arch.), a short piece of timber
in a truss, used to maintain the ends of struts or rafters, and keep
them from slipping. See Illust. of Queen-post.

STRAINT
Straint, n. Etym: [OF. estrainte, estreinte, F. etrainte. See 2nd
Strain.]

Defn: Overexertion; excessive tension; strain. [Obs.] Spenser.

STRAIT
Strait, a.

Defn: A variant of Straight. [Obs.]

STRAIT
Strait, a. [Compar. Straiter; superl. Straitest.] Etym: [OE.
straight, streyt, streit, OF. estreit, estroit, F. etroit, from L.
strictus drawn together, close, tight, p.p. of stringere to draw
tight. See 2nd Strait, and cf. Strict.]

1. Narrow; not broad.
Strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life,
and few there be that find it. Matt. vii. 14.
Too strait and low our cottage doors. Emerson.

2. Tight; close; closely fitting. Shak.

3. Close; intimate; near; familiar. [Obs.] "A strait degree of
favor." Sir P. Sidney.

4. Strict; scrupulous; rigorous.
Some certain edicts and some strait decrees. Shak.
The straitest sect of our religion. Acts xxvi. 5 (Rev. Ver.).

5. Difficult; distressful; straited.
To make your strait circumstances yet straiter. Secker.

6. Parsimonious; niggargly; mean. [Obs.]
I beg cold comfort, and you are so strait, And so ingrateful, you
deny me that. Shak.

STRAIT
Strait, adv.

Defn: Strictly; rigorously. [Obs.] Shak.

STRAIT
Strait, n.; pl. Straits. Etym: [OE. straight, streit, OF. estreit,
estroit. See Strait, a.]

1. A narrow pass or passage.
He brought him through a darksome narrow strait To a broad gate all
built of beaten gold. Spenser.
Honor travels in a strait so narrow Where one but goes abreast. Shak.

2. Specifically: (Geog.)

Defn: A (comparatively) narrow passageway connecting two large bodies
of water; -- often in the plural; as, the strait, or straits, of
Gibraltar; the straits of Magellan; the strait, or straits, of
Mackinaw.
We steered directly through a large outlet which they call a strait,
though it be fifteen miles broad. De Foe.

3. A neck of land; an isthmus. [R.]
A dark strait of barren land. Tennyson.

4. Fig.: A condition of narrowness or restriction; doubt; distress;
difficulty; poverty; perplexity; -- sometimes in the plural; as,
reduced to great straits.
For I am in a strait betwixt two. Phil. i. 23.
Let no man, who owns a Providence, grow desperate under any calamity
or strait whatsoever. South.
Ulysses made use of the pretense of natural infirmity to conceal the
straits he was in at that time in his thoughts. Broome.

STRAIT
Strait, v. t.

Defn: To put to difficulties. [Obs.] Shak.

STRAITEN
Strait"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Straitened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Straitening.]

1. To make strait; to make narrow; hence, to contract; to confine.
Waters, when straitened, as at the falls of bridges, give a roaring
noise. Bacon.
In narrow circuit, straitened by a foe. Milton.

2. To make tense, or tight; to tighten.
They straiten at each end the cord. Pope.

3. To restrict; to distress or embarrass in respect of means or
conditions of life; -- used chiefly in the past participle; -- as, a
man straitened in his circumstances.

STRAIT-HANDED
Strait"-hand`ed, a.

Defn: Parsimonious; sparing; niggardly. [R.] -- Strait"-hand`ed*ness,
n. [R.]

STRAIT-JACKET
Strait"-jack`et, n.

Defn: A dress of strong materials for restraining maniacs or those
who are violently delirious. It has long sleeves, which are closed at
the ends, confining the hands, and may be tied behind the back.

STRAIT-LACED
Strait"-laced`, a.

1. Bound with stays.
Let nature have scope to fashion the body as she thinks best; we have
few well-shaped that are strait-laced. Locke.

2. Restricted; stiff; constrained. [R.] Fuller.

3. Rigid in opinion; strict in manners or morals.

STRAITLY
Strait"ly, adv.

1. In a strait manner; narrowly; strictly; rigorously. Mark i. 43.

2. Closely; intimately. [Obs.]

STRAITNESS
Strait"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being strait; especially, a pinched
condition or situation caused by poverty; as, the straitnessof their
circumstances.

STRAIT-WAISTCOAT
Strait"-waist`coat, n.

Defn: Same as Strait-jacket.

STRAKE
Strake, obs.

Defn: imp. of Strike. Spenser.

STRAKE
Strake, n. Etym: [See Streak.]

1. A streak. [Obs.] Spenser."White strake." Gen. xxx. 37.

2. An iron band by which the fellies of a wheel are secured to each
other, being not continuous, as the tire is, but made up of separate
pieces.

3. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: One breadth of planks or plates forming a continuous range on
the bottom or sides of a vessel, reaching from the stem to the stern;
a streak.

Note: The planks or plates next the keel are called the garboard
strakes; the next, or the heavy strakes at the bilge, are the bilge
strakes; the next, from the water line to the lower port sill, the
wales; and the upper parts of the sides, the sheer strakes.

4. (Mining)

Defn: A trough for washing broken ore, gravel, or sand; a launder.

STRALE
Strale, n.

Defn: Pupil of the eye. [Prov. Eng.]

STRAM
Stram, v. t. Etym: [Cf. LG. strammen to strain, straiten, stretch, D.
stram strained, tight, G. stramm.]

Defn: To spring or recoil with violence. [Prov. Eng.]

STRAM
Stram, v. t.

Defn: To dash down; to beat. [Prov. Eng.]

STRAMASH
Stram"ash, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Stramazoun.]

Defn: To strike, beat, or bang; to break; to destroy. [Scot. & Prov.
Eng.]

STRAMASH
Stram"ash, n.

Defn: A turmoil; a broil; a fray; a fight. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Barham.

STRAMAZOUN
Stram"a*zoun, n. Etym: [F. estramacon, It. stramazzone.]

Defn: A direct descending blow with the edge of a sword. [Obs.] B.
Jonson.

STRAMINEOUS
Stra*min"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. stramineus, fr. stramen straw, fr.
sternere, stratum, to spread out, to strew.]

1. Strawy; consisting of straw. Robinson.

2. Chaffy; like straw; straw-colored. Burton.

STRAMONIUM
Stra*mo"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL.; Cf. F. stramoine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A poisonous plant (Datura Stramonium); stinkweed. See Datura,
and Jamestown weed.

STRAMONY
Stram"o*ny, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Stramonium.

STRAND
Strand, n. Etym: [Probably fr. D. streen a skein; akin to G. strahne
a skein, lock of hair, strand of a rope.]

Defn: One of the twists, or strings, as of fibers, wires, etc., of
which a rope is composed.

STRAND
Strand, v. t.

Defn: To break a strand of (a rope).

STRAND
Strand, n. Etym: [AS. strand; akin to D., G., Sw., & Dan. strand,
Icel. strond.]

Defn: The shore, especially the beach of a sea, ocean, or large lake;
rarely, the margin of a navigable river. Chaucer. Strand birds.
(Zool.) See Shore birds, under Shore.
 -- Strand plover (Zool.), a black-bellied plover. See Illust. of
Plover.
 -- Strand wolf (Zool.), the brown hyena.

STRAND
Strand, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stranded; p. pr. & vb. n. Stranding.]

Defn: To drive on a strand; hence, to run aground; as, to strand a
ship.

STRAND
Strand, v. i.

Defn: To drift, or be driven, on shore to run aground; as, the ship
stranded at high water.

STRANG
Strang, a. Etym: [See Strong.]

Defn: Strong. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell.

STRANGE
Strange, a. [Compar. Stranger; superl. Strangest.] Etym: [OE.
estrange, F. etrange, fr. L. extraneus that is without, external,
foreign, fr. extra on the outside. See Extra, and cf. Estrange,
Extraneous.]

1. Belonging to another country; foreign. "To seek strange strands."
Chaucer.
One of the strange queen's lords. Shak.
I do not contemn the knowledge of strange and divers tongues. Ascham.

2. Of or pertaining to others; not one's own; not pertaining to one's
self; not domestic.
So she, impatient her own faults to see, Turns from herself, and in
strange things delights. Sir J. Davies.

3. Not before known, heard, or seen; new.
Here is the hand and seal of the duke; you know the character, I
doubt not; and the signet is not strange to you. Shak.

4. Not according to the common way; novel; odd; unusual; irregular;
extraordinary; unnatural; queer. "He is sick of a strange fever."
Shak.
Sated at length, erelong I might perceive Strange alteration in me.
Milton.

5. Reserved; distant in deportment. Shak.
She may be strange and shy at first, but will soon learn to love
thee. Hawthorne.

6. Backward; slow. [Obs.]
Who, loving the effect, would not be strange In favoring the cause.
Beau. & Fl.

7. Not familiar; unaccustomed; inexperienced.
In thy fortunes am unlearned and strange. Shak.

Note: Strange is often used as an exclamation.
Strange! what extremes should thus preserve the snow High on the
Alps, or in deep caves below. Waller.
Strange sail (Naut.), an unknown vessel.
 -- Strange woman (Script.), a harlot. Prov. v. 3.
 -- To make it strange. (a) To assume ignorance, suspicion, or alarm,
concerning it. Shak. (b) To make it a matter of difficulty. [Obs.]
Chaucer.
 -- To make strange, To make one's self strange. (a) To profess
ignorance or astonishment. (b) To assume the character of a stranger.
Gen. xlii. 7.

Syn.
 -- Foreign; new; outlandish; wonderful; astonishing; marvelous;
unusual; odd; uncommon; irregular; queer; eccentric.

STRANGE
Strange, adv.

Defn: Strangely. [Obs.]
Most strange, but yet most truly, will I speak. Shak.

STRANGE
Strange, v. t.

Defn: To alienate; to estrange. [Obs.]

STRANGE
Strange, v. i.

1. To be estranged or alienated. [Obs.]

2. To wonder; to be astonished. [Obs.] Glanvill.

STRANGELY
Strange"ly, adv.

1. As something foreign, or not one's own; in a manner adapted to
something foreign and strange. [Obs.] Shak.

2. In the manner of one who does not know another; distantly;
reservedly; coldly.
You all look strangely on me. Shak.
I do in justice charge thee . . . That thou commend it strangely to
some place Where chance may nurse or end it. Shak.

3. In a strange manner; in a manner or degree to excite surprise or
wonder; wonderfully.
How strangely active are the arts of peace! Dryden.
It would strangely delight you to see with what spirit he converses.
Law.

STRANGENESS
Strange"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being strange (in any sense of the
adjective).

STRANGER
Stran"ger, n. Etym: [OF. estrangier, F. etranger. See Strange.]

1. One who is strange, foreign, or unknown. Specifically: --
(a) One who comes from a foreign land; a foreigner.
I am a most poor woman and a stranger, Born out of your dominions.
Shak.

(b) One whose home is at a distance from the place where he is, but
in the same country.
(c) One who is unknown or unacquainted; as, the gentleman is a
stranger to me; hence, one not admitted to communication, fellowship,
or acquaintance.
Melons on beds of ice are taught to bear, And strangers to the sun
yet ripen here. Granville.
My child is yet a stranger in the world. Shak.
I was no stranger to the original. Dryden.

2. One not belonging to the family or household; a guest; a visitor.
To honor and receive Our heavenly stranger. Milton.

3. (Law)

Defn: One not privy or party an act, contract, or title; a mere
intruder or intermeddler; one who interferes without right; as,
actual possession of land gives a good title against a stranger
having no title; as to strangers, a mortgage is considered merely as
a pledge; a mere stranger to the levy.

STRANGER
Stran"ger, v. t.

Defn: To estrange; to alienate. [Obs.] Shak.

STRANGLE
Stran"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strangled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Strangling.] Etym: [OF. estrangler, F. etrangler, L. strangulare, Gr.
string, n. Cf. Strain, String.]

1. To compress the windpipe of (a person or animal) until death
results from stoppage of respiration; to choke to death by
compressing the throat, as with the hand or a rope.
Our Saxon ancestors compelled the adulteress to strangle herself.
Ayliffe.

2. To stifle, choke, or suffocate in any manner.
Shall I not then be stifled in the vault, . . . And there die
strangled ere my Romeo comes Shak.

3. To hinder from appearance; to stifle; to suppress. "Strangle such
thoughts." Shak.

STRANGLE
Stran"gle, v. i.

Defn: To be strangled, or suffocated.

STRANGLEABLE
Stran"gle*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being strangled. [R.] Chesterfield.

STRANGLE HOLD
Stran"gle hold.

Defn: In wrestling, a hold by which one's opponent is choked. It is
usually not allowed.

STRANGLER
Stran"gler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, strangles. "The very strangler of their
amity." Shak.

STRANGLES
Stran"gles, n.

Defn: A disease in horses and swine, in which the upper part of the
throat, or groups of lymphatic glands elsewhere, swells.

STRANGULATE
Stran"gu*late, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Strangulated.

STRANGULATED
Stran"gu*la`ted, a.

1. (Med.)

Defn: Having the circulation stopped by compression; attended with
arrest or obstruction of circulation, caused by constriction or
compression; as, a strangulated hernia.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Contracted at irregular intervals, if tied with a ligature;
constricted. Strangulated hernia. (Med.) See under Hernia.

STRANGULATION
Stran"gu*la`tion, n. Etym: [L. strangulatio: cf. F. strangulation.
See Strangle.]

1. The act of strangling, or the state of being strangled.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Inordinate compression or constriction of a tube or part, as of
the throat; especially, such as causes a suspension of breathing, of
the passage of contents, or of the circulation, as in cases of
hernia.

STRANGURIOUS
Stran*gu"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. stranguriosus.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to strangury. Cheyne.

STRANGURY
Stran"gu*ry, n. Etym: [L. stranguria, Gr. strangurie. See Strangle,
and Urine.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: A painful discharge of urine, drop by drop, produced by
spasmodic muscular contraction.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A swelling or other disease in a plant, occasioned by a
ligature fastened tightly about it.

STRANY
Stra"ny, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The guillemot. [Prov. Eng.]

STRAP
Strap, n. Etym: [OE. strope, AS. stropp, L. stroppus, struppus,
perhaps fr. Gr. Strophe). Cf. Strop a strap, a piece of rope.]

1. A long, narrow, pliable strip of leather, cloth, or the like;
specifically, a strip of thick leather used in flogging.
A lively cobbler that . . . had scarce passed a day without giving
her [his wife] the discipline of the strap. Addison.

2. Something made of such a strip, or of a part of one, or a
combination of two or more for a particular use; as, a boot strap,
shawl strap, stirrup strap.

3. A piece of leather, or strip of wood covered with a suitable
material, for sharpening a razor; a strop.

4. A narrow strip of anything, as of iron or brass. Specifically: --
(a) (Carp. & Mach.)

Defn: A band, plate, or loop of metal for clasping and holding
timbers or parts of a machine. (b) (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of rope or metal passing around a block and used for
fastening it to anything.

5. (Bot.)
(a) The flat part of the corolla in ligulate florets, as those of the
white circle in the daisy.
(b) The leaf, exclusive of its sheath, in some grasses.

6. A shoulder strap. See under Shoulder. Strap bolt, a bolt of which
one end is a flat bar of considerable length.
 -- Strap head (Mach.), a journal box, or pair of brasses, secured to
the end of a connecting rod by a strap. See Illust. of Gib and key,
under Gib.
 -- Strap hinge, a hinge with long flaps by which it is fastened, as
to a door or wall.
 -- Strap rail (Railroads), a flat rail formerly used.

STRAP
Strap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Strapping.]

1. To beat or chastise with a strap.

2. To fasten or bind with a strap. Cowper.

3. To sharpen by rubbing on a strap, or strop; as, to strap a razor.

STRAPPADO
Strap*pa"do, n.; pl. Strappadoes. Etym: [It. strappata a pull, the
strappado, from strappare to pull, from Prov. G. strapfen: cf. G.
straff tense, stretched.]

Defn: A military punishment formerly practiced, which consisted in
drawing an offender to the top of a beam and letting him fall to the
length of the rope, by which means a limb was often dislocated. Shak.

STRAPPADO
Strap*pa"do, v. t.

Defn: To punish or torture by the strappado. Milton.

STRAPPER
Strap"per, n.

1. One who uses strap.

2. A person or thing of uncommon size. [Colloq.]

STRAPPING
Strap"ping, a.

Defn: Tall; strong; lusty; large; as, a strapping fellow. [Colloq.]
There are five and thirty strapping officers gone. Farquhar.

STRAPPLE
Strap"ple, v. t.

Defn: To hold or bind with, or as with, a strap; to entangle. [Obs.]
Chapman.

STRAP-SHAPED
Strap"-shaped`, a.

Defn: Shaped like a strap; ligulate; as, a strap-shaped corolla.

STRAPWORK
Strap"work`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of ornament consisting of a narrow fillet or band
folded, crossed, and interlaced.

STRASS
Strass, n. Etym: [So called from its inventor, a German jeweler: cf.
F. stras.] (Chem.)

Defn: A brilliant glass, used in the manufacture of artificial paste
gems, which consists essentially of a complex borosilicate of lead
and potassium. Cf. Glass.

STRATA
Stra"ta, n.,

Defn: pl. of Stratum.

STRATAGEM
Strat"a*gem, n. Etym: [F. stratageme (cf. Sp. estratagema, It.
stratagemma), L. strategema, Gr. Stratum) + Agent.]

Defn: An artifice or trick in war for deceiving the enemy; hence, in
general, artifice; deceptive device; secret plot; evil machination.
Fit for treasons, stratagems, and spoils. Shak.
Those oft are stratagems which error seem, Nor is it Homer nods, but
we that dream. Pope.

STRATAGEMICAL
Strat`a*gem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Containing stratagem; as, a stratagemical epistle. [R.] Swift.

STRATARITHMETRY
Strat`a*rith"me*try, n. Etym: [Gr. -metry.] (Mil.)

Defn: The art of drawing up an army, or any given number of men, in
any geometrical figure, or of estimating or expressing the number of
men in such a figure.

STRATEGETIC; STRATEGETICAL
Strat`e*get"ic, Strat`e*get"ic*al, a.

Defn: Strategic.

STRATEGETICS
Strat`e*get"ics, n.

Defn: Strategy.

STRATEGIC; STRATEGICAL
Stra*te"gic, Stra*te"gic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. strategique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to strategy; effected by artifice.
 -- Stra*te"gic*al*ly, adv. Strategic line (Mil.), a line joining
strategic points.
 -- Strategic point (Mil.), any point or region in the theater or
warlike operations which affords to its possessor an advantage over
his opponent, as a mountain pass, a junction of rivers or roads, a
fortress, etc.

STRATEGICS
Stra*te"gics, n.

Defn: Strategy.

STRATEGIST
Strat"e*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. strategiste.]

Defn: One skilled in strategy, or the science of directing great
military movements.

STRATEGUS
Stra*te"gus, n.; pl. Strategi. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Stratagem.] (Gr.
Antiq.)

Defn: The leader or commander of an army; a general.

STRATEGY
Strat"e*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. strategie. See Stratagem.]

1. The science of military command, or the science of projecting
campaigns and directing great military movements; generalship.

2. The use of stratagem or artifice.

STRATH
Strath, n. Etym: [Gael. srath.]

Defn: A valley of considerable size, through which a river runs; a
valley bottom; -- often used in composition with the name of the
river; as, Strath Spey, Strathdon, Strathmore. [Scot.]
The long green strath of Napa valley. R. L. Stevenson.

STRATHSPEY
Strath"spey`, n. Etym: [So called from the district of Strath Spey in
Scotland.]

Defn: A lively Scottish dance, resembling the reel, but slower; also,
the tune.

STRATICULATE
Stra*tic"u*late, a. Etym: [Dim. Fr. stratum.] (Min.)

Defn: Characterized by the presence of thin parallel strata, or
layers, as in an agate.

STRATIFICATION
Strat`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stratification.]

1. The act or process of laying in strata, or the state of being laid
in the form of strata, or layers.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The deposition of material in successive layers in the growth
of a cell wall, thus giving rise to a stratified appearance.

STRATIFIED
Strat"i*fied, a.

Defn: Having its substance arranged in strata, or layers; as,
stratified rock.

STRATIFORM
Strat"i*form, a.

Defn: Having the form of strata.

STRATIFY
Strat"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stratified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stratifying.] Etym: [Stratum + -fy: cf. F. stratifier.]

Defn: To form or deposit in strata, or layers, as substances in the
earth; to arrange in strata.

STRATIGRAPHIC; STRATIGRAPHICAL
Strat`i*graph"ic, Strat`i*graph"ic*al, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or depended upon, the order or arrangement of
strata; as, stratigraphical evidence.
 -- Strat`i*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

STRATIGRAPHIC; STRATIGRAPHICAL
Strat`i*graph"ic, -ic*al, a. (Mil.)

Defn: See Stratographic.

STRATIGRAPHY
Stra*tig"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Stratum + -graphy.]

Defn: That branch of geology which treats of the arrangement and
succession of strata.

STRATO-CIRRUS
Stra`to-cir"rus, n.  [Stratus + cirrus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: An alto-stratus cloud.

STRATOCRACY
Stra*toc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -cracy, as in democracy: cf. F.
stratocratie.]

Defn: A military government; government by military chiefs and an
army.

STRATO-CUMULUS
Stra`to-cu"mu*lus, n. [Stratus + cumulus.] (Meteor.)

Defn: Large balls or rolls of dark cloud which frequently cover the
whole sky, esp. in winter, and give it at times an undulated
appearance.

STRATOGRAPHIC; STRATOGRAPHICAL
Strat`o*graph"ic, Strat`o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to stratography.

STRATOGRAPHY
Stra*tog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of an army, or of what belongs to an army.

STRATONIC
Stra*ton"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an army. [R.]

STRATOTIC
Stra*tot"ic, a.

Defn: Warlike; military. [R.]

STRATUM
Stra"tum, n.; pl. E. Stratums, L. Strata. The latter is more common.
Etym: [L., from sternere, stratum, to spread; akin to Gr. Strew, and
cf. Consternation, Estrade, Prostrate, Stratus, Street.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: A bed of earth or rock of one kind, formed by natural causes,
and consisting usually of a series of layers, which form a rock as it
lies between beds of other kinds. Also used figuratively.

2. A bed or layer artificially made; a course.

STRATUS
Stra"tus, n. Etym: [L. stratus a spreading out, scattering, from
sternere, stratum, to spread.] (Meteor.)

Defn: A form of clouds in which they are arranged in a horizontal
band or layer. See Cloud.

STRAUGHT
Straught, obs.

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Stretch.

STRAUGHT
Straught, v. t.

Defn: To stretch; to make straight. [Written also straucht.] [Scot.]
Sir W. Scott.

STRAW
Straw, v. t.

Defn: To spread or scatter. See Strew, and Strow. Chaucer.

STRAW
Straw, n. Etym: [OE. straw, stre, stree, AS. streaw, from the root of
E. strew; akin to OFries. stre, D. stroo, G. stroh, OHG. stro, Icel.
stra, Dan. straa, Sw. stra. *166. See Strew.]

1. A stalk or stem of certain species of grain, pulse, etc.,
especially of wheat, rye, oats, barley, more rarely of buckwheat,
beans, and pease.

2. The gathered and thrashed stalks of certain species of grain,
etc.; as, a bundle, or a load, of rye straw.

3. Anything proverbially worthless; the least possible thing; a mere
trifle.
I set not a straw by thy dreamings. Chaucer.

Note: Straw is often used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, straw-built, straw-crowned, straw-roofed, straw-
stuffed, and the like. Man of straw, an effigy formed by stuffing the
garments of a man with straw; hence, a fictitious person; an
irresponsible person; a puppet.set up a straw man; -- used in
disputation. Typically, one party accuses an opponent of setting up a
straw man, meaning that the opponent is distorting his true opinion
in order to make it look absurd.
 -- Straw bail, worthless bail, as being given by irresponsible
persons. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Straw bid, a worthless bid; a bid for a
contract which the bidder is unable or unwilling to fulfill. [Colloq.
U.S.] -- Straw cat (Zool.), the pampas cat.
 -- Straw color, the color of dry straw, being a delicate yellow.
 -- Straw drain, a drain filled with straw.
 -- Straw plait, or Straw plat, a strip formed by plaiting straws,
used for making hats, bonnets, etc.
 -- To be in the straw, to be brought to bed, as a pregnant woman.
[Slang]

STRAWBERRY
Straw"ber*ry, n. Etym: [AS. streawberige; streaw straw + berie berry;
perhaps from the resemblance of the runners of the plant to straws.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A fragrant edible berry, of a delicious taste and commonly of a
red color, the fruit of a plant of the genus Fragaria, of which there
are many varieties. Also, the plant bearing the fruit. The common
American strawberry is Fragaria virginiana; the European, F. vesca.
There are also other less common species. Strawberry bass. (Zool.)
See Calico bass, under Calico.
 -- Strawberry blite. (Bot.) See under Blite.
 -- Strawberry borer (Zool.), any one of several species of insects
whose larv? burrow in the crown or roots of the strawberry vine.
Especially: (a) The root borer (Anarsia lineatella), a very small
dark gray moth whose larv? burrow both in the larger roots and crown,
often doing great damage. (b) The crown borer (Tyloderma fragari?), a
small brown weevil whose larva burrows in the crown and kills the
plant.
 -- Strawberry bush (Bot.), an American shrub (Euonymus Americanus),
a kind of spindle tree having crimson pods and the seeds covered with
a scarlet aril.
 -- Strawberry crab (Zool.), a small European spider crab (Eurynome
aspera); -- so called because the back is covered with pink
tubercles.
 -- Strawberry fish (Zool.), the amadavat.
 -- Strawberry geranium (Bot.), a kind of saxifrage (Saxifraga
sarmentosa) having reniform leaves, and producing long runners like
those of the strawberry.
 -- Strawberry leaf. (a) The leaf of the strawberry. (b) The symbol
of the rank or estate of a duke, because the ducal coronet is twined
with strawberry leaves. "The strawberry leaves on her chariot panels
are engraved on her ladyship's heart." Thackeray.
 -- Strawberry-leaf roller (Zool.), any one of several species of
moths whose larv? roll up, and feed upon, the leaves of the
strawberry vine; especially, Phoxopteris fragari?, and Eccopsis
permundana.
 -- Strawberry moth (Zool.), any one of several species of moth whose
larv? feed on the strawberry vines; as: (a) The smeared dagger
(Apatela oblinita), whose large hairy larva is velvety black with two
rows of bright yellow spots on each side. (b) A geometrid (Angerona
crocataria) which is yellow with dusky spots on the wings. Called
also currant moth.
 -- Strawberry pear (Bot.), the red ovoid fruit of a West Indian
plant of the genus Cereus (C. triangularia). It has a sweetish
flavor, and is slightly acid, pleasant, and cooling. Also, the plant
bearing the fruit.
 -- Strawberry sawfly (Zool.), a small black sawfly (Emphytus
maculatus) whose larva eats the leaves of the strawberry vine.
 -- Strawberry tomato. (Bot.) See Alkekengi.
 -- Strawberry tree. (Bot.) See Arbutus.
 -- Strawberry vine (Bot.), the plant which yields the strawberry.
 -- Strawberry worm (Zool.), the larva of any moth which feeds on the
strawberry vine.

STRAWBOARD
Straw"board`, n.

Defn: Pasteboard made of pulp of straw.

STRAW-COLORED
Straw"-col`ored, a.

Defn: Being of a straw color. See Straw color, under Straw, n.

STRAW-CUTTER
Straw"-cut`ter, n.

Defn: An instrument to cut straw for fodder.

STRAWED
Strawed,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Straw. [Obs.]

STRAWWORM
Straw"worm`, n.

Defn: A caddice worm.

STRAWY
Straw"y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to straw; made of, or resembling, straw. Shak.

STRAY
Stray, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Strayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Straying.] Etym:
[OF. estraier, estraer, to stray, or as adj., stray, fr. (assumed) L.
stratarius roving the streets, fr. L. strata (sc. via) a paved road.
See Street, and Stray, a.]

1. To wander, as from a direct course; to deviate, or go out of the
way.
Thames among the wanton valleys strays. Denham.

2. To wander from company, or from the proper limits; to rove at
large; to roam; to go astray.
Now, until the break of day, Through this house each fairy stray.
Shak.
A sheep doth very often stray. Shak.

3. Figuratively, to wander from the path of duty or rectitude; to
err.
We have erred and strayed from thy ways.
While meaner things, whom instinct leads, Are rarely known to stray.
Cowper.

Syn.
 -- To deviate; err; swerve; rove; roam; wander.

STRAY
Stray, v. t.

Defn: To cause to stray. [Obs.] Shak.

STRAY
Stray, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. estraie, p.p. of estraier. See Stray, v. i.,
and cf. Astray, Estray.]

Defn: Having gone astray; strayed; wandering; as, a strayhorse or
sheep. Stray line (Naut.), that portion of the log line which is
veered from the reel to allow the chip to get clear of the stern
eddies before the glass is turned.
 -- Stray mark (Naut.), the mark indicating the end of the stray
line.

STRAY
Stray, n.

1. Any domestic animal that has an inclosure, or its proper place and
company, and wanders at large, or is lost; an estray. Used also
figuratively.
Seeing him wander about, I took him up for a stray. Dryden.

2. The act of wandering or going astray. [R.] Shak.

STRAYER
Stray"er, n.

Defn: One who strays; a wanderer.

STRE
Stre, n.

Defn: Straw. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STREAK
Streak, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Stretch, Streek.]

Defn: To stretch; to extend; hence, to lay out, as a dead body. [Obs.
or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STREAK
Streak, n. Etym: [OE. streke; akin to D. streek a line, stroke, G.
strich, AS. strica, Sw. strek, Dan. streg, Goth. stricks, and E.
strike, stroke. See Strike, Stroke, n., and cf. Strake.]

1. A line or long mark of a different color from the ground; a
stripe; a vein.
What mean those colored streaks in heaven Milton.

2. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A strake.

3. (Min.)

Defn: The fine powder or mark yielded by a mineral when scratched or
rubbed against a harder surface, the color of which is sometimes a
distinguishing character.

4. The rung or round of a ladder. [Obs.]

STREAK
Streak, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Streaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Streaking.]

1. To form streaks or stripes in or on; to stripe; to variegate with
lines of a different color, or of different colors.
A mule . . . streaked and dappled with white and black. Sandys.
Now streaked and glowing with the morning red. Prior.

2. With it as an object: To run swiftly. [Colloq.]

STREAKED
Streaked, a.

1. Marked or variegated with stripes.

2. Uncomfortable; out of sorts. [Local, U.S.]

STREAKY
Streak"y, a.

Defn: Same as Streaked, 1. "The streaky west." Cowper.

STREAM
Stream, n. Etym: [AS. stream; akin to OFries. stram, OS. strom, D.
stroom, G. strom, OHG. stroum, str, Dan. & Sw. strom, Icel. straumr,
Ir. sroth, Lith. srove, Russ. struia, Gr. sru. *174. Cf. Catarrh,
Diarrhea, Rheum, Rhythm.]

1. A current water or other fluid; a liquid flowing continuously in a
line or course, either on the earth, as a river, brook, etc., or from
a vessel, reservoir, or fountain; specifically, any course of running
water; as, many streams are blended in the Mississippi; gas and steam
came from the earth in streams; a stream of molten lead from a
furnace; a stream of lava from a volcano.

2. A beam or ray of light. "Sun streams." Chaucer.

3. Anything issuing or moving with continued succession of parts; as,
a stream of words; a stream of sand. "The stream of beneficence."
Atterbury. "The stream of emigration." Macaulay.

4. A continued current or course; as, a stream of weather. "The very
stream of his life." Shak.

5. Current; drift; tendency; series of tending or moving causes; as,
the stream of opinions or manners. Gulf stream. See under Gulf.
 -- Stream anchor, Stream cable. (Naut.) See under Anchor, and Cable.
 -- Stream ice, blocks of ice floating in a mass together in some
definite direction.
 -- Stream tin, particles or masses of tin ore found in alluvial
ground; -- so called because a stream of water is the principal agent
used in separating the ore from the sand and gravel.
 -- Stream works (Cornish Mining), a place where an alluvial deposit
of tin ore is worked. Ure.
 -- To float with the stream, figuratively, to drift with the current
of opinion, custom, etc., so as not to oppose or check it.

Syn.
 -- Current; flow; rush; tide; course.
 -- Stream, Current. These words are often properly interchangeable;
but stream is the broader word, denoting a prevailing onward course.
The stream of the Mississippi rolls steadily on to the Gulf of
Mexico, but there are reflex currents in it which run for a while in
a contrary direction.

STREAM
Stream, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Streamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Streaming.]

1. To issue or flow in a stream; to flow freely or in a current, as a
fluid or whatever is likened to fluids; as, tears streamed from her
eyes.
Beneath those banks where rivers stream. Milton.

2. To pour out, or emit, a stream or streams.
A thousand suns will stream on thee. Tennyson.

3. To issue in a stream of light; to radiate.

4. To extend; to stretch out with a wavy motion; to float in the
wind; as, a flag streams in the wind.

STREAM
Stream, v. t.

Defn: To send forth in a current or stream; to cause to flow; to
pour; as, his eyes streamed tears.
It may so please that she at length will stream Some dew of grace
into my withered heart. Spenser.

2. To mark with colors or embroidery in long tracts.
The herald's mantle is streamed with gold. Bacon.

3. To unfurl. Shak. To stream the buoy. (Naut.) See under Buoy.

STREAM CLOCK
Stream clock. (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for ascertaining the velocity of the blood in a
vessel.

STREAMER
Stream"er, n.

1. An ensign, flag, or pennant, which floats in the wind;
specifically, a long, narrow, ribbonlike flag.
Brave Rupert from afar appears, Whose waving streamers the glad
general knows. Dryden.

3. A stream or column of light shooting upward from the horizon,
constituting one of the forms of the aurora borealis. Macaulay.
While overhead the North's dumb streamers shoot. Lowell.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A searcher for stream tin.

STREAMFUL
Stream"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding in streams, or in water. "The streamful tide."
Drayton.

STREAM GOLD
Stream gold. (Mining)

Defn: Gold in alluvial deposits; placer gold.

STREAMINESS
Stream"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being streamy; a trailing. R. A. Proctor.

STREAMING
Stream"ing, a.

Defn: Sending forth streams.

STREAMING
Stream"ing, n.

1. The act or operation of that which streams; the act of that which
sends forth, or which runs in, streams.

2. (Mining)

Defn: The reduction of stream tin; also, the search for stream tin.

STREAMLESS
Stream"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of streams, or of a stream, as a region of country,
or a dry channel.

STREAMLET
Stream"let, n.

Defn: A small stream; a rivulet; a rill.

STREAM LINE
Stream line.

Defn: The path of a constituent particle of a flowing fluid
undisturbed by eddies or the like.

STREAMLINE
Stream"line`, a.

Defn: Of or pert. to a stream line; designating a motion or flow that
is free from turbulence, like that of a particle in a streamline;
hence, designating a surface, body, etc., that is designed so as to
afford an unbroken flow of a fluid about it, esp. when the resistance
to flow is the least possible; as, a streamline body for an
automobile or airship.

STREAM WHEEL
Stream wheel.

Defn: A wheel used for measuring, by its motion when submerged, the
velocity of flowing water; a current wheel.

STREAMY
Stream"y, a.

1. Abounding with streams, or with running water; streamful.
Arcadia However streamy now, adust and dry, Denied the goddess water.
Prior.

2. Resembling a stream; issuing in a stream.
His nodding helm emits a streamy ray. Pope.

STREE
Stree, n.

Defn: Straw. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STREEK
Streek, v. t.

Defn: To stretch; also, to lay out, as a dead body. See Streak. [Obs.
or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STREEL
Streel, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Stroll.]

Defn: To trail along; to saunter or be drawn along, carelessly,
swaying in a kind of zigzag motion. [Colloq.] Thackeray.

STREEN
Streen, n.

Defn: See Strene. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STREET
Street, n. Etym: [OE. strete, AS. str, fr. L. strata (sc. via) a
paved way, properly fem. p.p. of sternere, stratum, to spread; akin
to E. strew. See Strew, and cf. Stratum, Stray, v. & a.]

Defn: Originally, a paved way or road; a public highway; now
commonly, a thoroughfare in a city or village, bordered by dwellings
or business houses.
He removed [the body of] Amasa from the street unto the field.
Coverdale.
At home or through the high street passing. Milton.

Note: In an extended sense, street designates besides the roadway,
the walks, houses, shops, etc., which border the thoroughfare.
His deserted mansion in Duke Street. Macaulay.
The street (Broker's Cant), that thoroughfare of a city where the
leading bankers and brokers do business; also, figuratively, those
who do business there; as, the street would not take the bonds.
 -- Street Arab, Street broker, etc. See under Arab, Broker, etc.
 -- Street door, a door which opens upon a street, or is nearest the
street.

Syn.
 -- See Way.

STREETWALKER
Street"walk`er, n.

Defn: A common prostitute who walks the streets to find customers.

STREETWARD
Street"ward`, n.

Defn: An officer, or ward, having the care of the streets. [Obs.]
Cowell.

STREETWARD
Street"ward, a.

Defn: Facing toward the street.
Their little streetward sitting room. Tennyson.

STREIGHT
Streight, a., n., & adv.

Defn: See 2nd Strait. [Obs.]

STREIGHTEN
Streight"en, v. t.

Defn: See Straiten. [Obs.]

STREIN
Strein, v. t.

Defn: To strain. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STREIT
Streit, a. Etym: [See Stretch.]

Defn: Drawn. [Obs.]
Pyrrhus with his streite sword. Chaucer.

STREIT
Streit, a.

Defn: Close; narrow; strict. [Obs.] See Strait.

STREITE
Streite, adv.

Defn: Narrowly; strictly; straitly. [Obs.]

STRELITZ
Strel"itz, n.sing. & pl. Etym: [Russ. strieliets' a shooter, archer.]

Defn: A soldier of the ancient Muscovite guard or Russian standing
army; also, the guard itself.

STRELITZIA
Stre*litz"i*a, n. Etym: [NL., named after Charlotte, Princess of
Mecklenburg-Strelitz, and queen of George III of Great Britain.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants related to the banana, found at the Cape of
Good Hope. They have rigid glaucous distichous leaves, and peculiar
richly colored flowers.

STRENE
Strene, n. Etym: [OE. stren, streen, streon, AS. gestrienan, gestr,
gestreonan, to beget, to obtain, gestreon gain, wealth; akin to OHG.
striunan to gain. Cf. Strian race, family.]

Defn: Race; offspring; stock; breed; strain. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STRENGER; STRENGEST
Stren"ger, Stren"gest

Defn: , the original compar. & superl. of Strong. [Obs.]
Two of us shall strenger be than one. Chaucer.

STRENGTH
Strength, n. Etym: [OE. strengthe, AS. streng, fr. strang strong. See
Strong.]

1. The quality or state of being strong; ability to do or to bear;
capacity for exertion or endurance, whether physical, intellectual,
or moral; force; vigor; power; as, strength of body or of the arm;
strength of mind, of memory, or of judgment.
All his [Samson's] strength in his hairs were. Chaucer.
Thou must outlive Thy youth, thy strength, thy beauty. Milton.

2. Power to resist force; solidity or toughness; the quality of
bodies by which they endure the application of force without breaking
or yielding; -- in this sense opposed to frangibility; as, the
strength of a bone, of a beam, of a wall, a rope, and the like. "The
brittle strength of bones." Milton.

3. Power of resisting attacks; impregnability. "Our castle's strength
will laugh a siege to scorn." Shak.

4. That quality which tends to secure results; effective power in an
institution or enactment; security; validity; legal or moral force;
logical conclusiveness; as, the strength of social or legal
obligations; the strength of law; the strength of public opinion;
strength of evidence; strength of argument.

5. One who, or that which, is regarded as embodying or affording
force, strength, or firmness; that on which confidence or reliance is
based; support; security.
God is our refuge and strength. Ps. xlvi. 1.
What they boded would be a mischief to us, you are providing shall be
one of our principal strengths. Sprat.
Certainly there is not a greater strength against temptation. Jer.
Taylor.

6. Force as measured; amount, numbers, or power of any body, as of an
army, a navy, and the like; as, what is the strength of the enemy by
land, or by sea

7. Vigor or style; force of expression; nervous diction; -- said of
literary work.
And praise the easy vigor of a life Where Denham's strength and
Waller's sweetness join. Pope.

8. Intensity; -- said of light or color.
Bright Phoebus in his strength. Shak.

9. Intensity or degree of the distinguishing and essential element;
spirit; virtue; excellence; -- said of liquors, solutions, etc.; as,
the strength of wine or of acids.

10. A strong place; a stronghold. [Obs.] Shak. On, or Upon, the
strength of, in reliance upon. "The allies, after a successful
summer, are too apt, upon the strength of it, to neglect their
preparations for the ensuing campaign." Addison.

Syn.
 -- Force; robustness; toughness; hardness; stoutness; brawniness;
lustiness; firmness; puissance; support; spirit; validity; authority.
See Force.

STRENGTH
Strength, v. t.

Defn: To strengthen. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STRENGTHEN
Strength"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strengthened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Strengthening.]

1. To make strong or stronger; to add strength to; as, to strengthen
a limb, a bridge, an army; to strengthen an obligation; to strengthen
authority.
Let noble Warwick, Cobham, and the rest, . . . With powerful policy
strengthen themselves. Shak.

2. To animate; to encourage; to fix in resolution.
Charge Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him. Deut. iii. 28.

Syn.
 -- To invigorate; confirm; establish; fortify; animate; encourage.

STRENGTHEN
Strength"en, v. i.

Defn: To grow strong or stronger.
The young disease, that must subdue at length, Grows with his growth,
and strengthens with his strength. Pope.

STRENGTHENER
Strength"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, gives or adds strength. Sir W. Temple.

STRENGTHENING
Strength"en*ing, a.

Defn: That strengthens; giving or increasing strength.
 -- Strength"en*ing*ly, adv. Strengthening plaster (Med.), a plaster
containing iron, and supposed to have tonic effects.

STRENGTHFUL
Strength"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding in strength; full of strength; strong.
 -- Strength"ful*ness, n.
Florence my friend, in court my faction Not meanly strengthful.
Marston.

STRENGTHING
Strength"ing, n.

Defn: A stronghold. [Obs.]

STRENGTHLESS
Strength"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of strength. Boyle.

STRENGTHNER
Strength"ner, n.

Defn: See Strengthener.

STRENGTHY
Strength"y, a.

Defn: Having strength; strong. [Obs.]

STRENUITY
Stre*nu"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. strenuatis.]

Defn: Strenuousness; activity. [Obs.] Chapman.

STRENUOUS
Stren"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. strenuus; cf. Gr.

Defn: Eagerly pressing or urgent; zealous; ardent; earnest; bold;
valiant; intrepid; as, a strenuous advocate for national rights; a
strenuous reformer; a strenuous defender of his country.
And spirit-stirring wine, that strenuous makes. Chapman.
Strenuous, continuous labor is pain. I. Taylor.
-- Stren"u*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Stren"u*ous*ness, n.

STREPENT
Strep"ent, a. Etym: [L. strepens, p.pr. of strepere to make a noise.]

Defn: Noisy; loud. [R.] Shenstone.

STREPEROUS
Strep"er*ous, a. Etym: [LL. streperus, fr. L. strepere. See Strepent,
and cf. Obstreperous.]

Defn: Loud; boisterous. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

STREPITORES
Strep`i*to"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. strepitus clamor.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of birds, including the clamatorial and picarian
birds, which do not have well developed singing organs.

STREPSIPTER; STREPSIPTERAN
Strep*sip"ter, Strep*sip"ter*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Strepsiptera.

STREPSIPTERA
Strep*sip"te*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A group of small insects having the anterior wings rudimentary,
and in the form of short and slender twisted appendages, while the
posterior ones are large and membranous. They are parasitic in the
larval state on bees, wasps, and the like; -- called also Rhipiptera.
See Illust. under Rhipipter.

STREPSIPTEROUS
Strep*sip"ter*ous, a. Etym: [See Strepsiptera.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Strepsiptera.

STREPSORHINA
Strep`so*rhi"na, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Lemuroidea.

STREPSORHINE
Strep"so*rhine, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having twisted nostrils; -- said of the lemurs.
 -- n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Strepsorhina; a lemur. See Illust. under Monkey.

STREPTOBACTERIA
Strep`to*bac*te"ri*a, n. pl.; sing. Streptobracterium (. Etym: [NL.,
fr. Gr. bacteria.] (Biol.)

Defn: A so-called variety of bacterium, consisting in reality of
several bacteria linked together in the form of a chain.

STREPTOCOCCUS
Strep`to*coc"cus, n.; pl. Streptococci. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A long or short chain of micrococci, more or less curved.

STREPTONEURA
Strep`to*neu"ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An extensive division of gastropod Mollusca in which the loop
or visceral nerves is twisted, and the sexes separate. It is nearly
to equivalent to Prosobranchiata.

STREPTOTHRIX
Strep"to*thrix, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A genus of bacilli occurring of the form of long, smooth and
apparently branched threads, either straight or twisted.

STRESS
Stress, n. Etym: [Abbrev. fr. distress; or cf. OF. estrecier to
press, pinch, (assumed) LL. strictiare, fr. L. strictus. See
Distress.]

1. Distress. [Obs.]
Sad hersal of his heavy stress. Spenser.

2. Pressure, strain; -- used chiefly of immaterial things; except in
mechanics; hence, urgency; importance; weight; significance.
The faculties of the mind are improved by exercise, yet they must not
be put to a stress beyond their strength. Locke.
A body may as well lay too little as too much stress upon a dream.
L'Estrange.

3. (Mech. & Physics)

Defn: The force, or combination of forces, which produces a strain;
force exerted in any direction or manner between contiguous bodies,
or parts of bodies, and taking specific names according to its
direction, or mode of action, as thrust or pressure, pull or tension,
shear or tangential stress. Rankine.
Stress is the mutual action between portions of matter. Clerk
Maxwell.

4. (Pron.)

Defn: Force of utterance expended upon words or syllables. Stress is
in English the chief element in accent and is one of the most
important in emphasis. See Guide to pronunciation,  31-35.

5. (Scots Law)

Defn: Distress; the act of distraining; also, the thing distrained.
Stress of voice, unusual exertion of the voice.
 -- Stress of weather, constraint imposed by continued bad weather;
as, to be driven back to port by stress of weather.
 -- To lay stress upon, to attach great importance to; to emphasize.
"Consider how great a stress is laid upon this duty." Atterbury.
 -- To put stress upon, or To put to a stress, to strain.

STRESS
Stress, v. t.

1. To press; to urge; to distress; to put to difficulties. [R.]
Spenser.

2. To subject to stress, pressure, or strain.

STRESSFUL
Stress"ful, a.

Defn: Having much stress. Rush.

STRETCH
Stretch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stretched; p. pr. & vb. n. Stretching.]
Etym: [OE. strecchen, AS. streccan; akin to D. strekken, G. strecken,
OHG. strecchen, Sw. stracka, Dan. str?kke; cf. AS. str?ck, strec,
strong, violent, G. strack straight; of uncertain origin, perhaps
akin to E. strong. Cf. Straight.]

1. To reach out; to extend; to put forth.
And stretch forth his neck long and small. Chaucer.
I in conquest stretched mine arm. Shak.

2. To draw out to the full length; to cause to extend in a straight
line; as, to stretch a cord or rope.

3. To cause to extend in breadth; to spread; to expand; as, to
stretch cloth; to stretch the wings.

4. To make tense; to tighten; to distend forcibly.
The ox hath therefore stretched his yoke in vain. Shak.

5. To draw or pull out to greater length; to strain; as, to stretch a
tendon or muscle.
Awake, my soul, stretch every nerve. Doddridge.

6. To exaggerate; to extend too far; as, to stretch the truth; to
stretch one's credit.
They take up, one day, the most violent and stretched prerogative.
Burke.

STRETCH
Stretch, v. i.

1. To be extended; to be drawn out in length or in breadth, or both;
to spread; to reach; as, the iron road stretches across the
continent; the lake stretches over fifty square miles.
As far as stretcheth any ground. Gower.

2. To extend or spread one's self, or one's limbs; as, the lazy man
yawns and stretches.

3. To be extended, or to bear extension, without breaking, as elastic
or ductile substances.
The inner membrane . . . because it would stretch and yield, remained
umbroken. Boyle.

4. To strain the truth; to exaggerate; as, a man apt to stretch in
his report of facts. [Obs. or Colloq.]

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To sail by the wind under press of canvas; as, the ship
stretched to the eastward. Ham. Nav. Encyc. Stretch out, an order to
rowers to extend themselves forward in dipping the oar.

STRETCH
Stretch, n.

1. Act of stretching, or state of being stretched; reach; effort;
struggle; strain; as, a stretch of the limbs; a stretch of the
imagination.
By stretch of arms the distant shore to gain. Dryden.
Those put a lawful authority upon the stretch, to the abuse of yower,
under the color of prerogative. L'Estrange.

2. A continuous line or surface; a continuous space of time; as,
grassy stretches of land.
A great stretch of cultivated country. W. Black.
But all of them left me a week at a stretch. E. Eggleston.

3. The extent to which anything may be stretched.
Quotations, in their utmost stretch, can signify no more than that
Luther lay under severe agonies of mind. Atterbury.
This is the utmost stretch that nature can. Granville.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: The reach or extent of a vessel's progress on one tack; a tack
or board.

5. Course; direction; as, the stretch of seams of coal. To be on the
stretch, to be obliged to use one's utmost powers.
 -- Home stretch. See under Home, a.

STRETCHER
Stretch"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, stretches.

2. (Masonry)

Defn: A brick or stone laid with its longer dimension in the line of
direction of the wall. Gwilt.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A piece of timber used in building.

4. (Naut.)
(a) A narrow crosspiece of the bottom of a boat against which a rower
braces his feet.
(b) A crosspiece placed between the sides of a boat to keep them
apart when hoisted up and griped. Dana.

5. A litter, or frame, for carrying disabled, wounded, or dead
persons.

6. An overstretching of the truth; a lie. [Slang]

7. One of the rods in an umbrella, attached at one end to one of the
ribs, and at the other to the tube sliding upon the handle.

8. An instrument for stretching boots or gloves.

9. The frame upon which canvas is stretched for a painting.

STRETCHING
Stretch"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Stretch, v. Stretching course (Masonry), a course or
series of stretchers. See Stretcher, 2. Britton.

STRETTO
Stret"to, n. Etym: [It., close or contacted, pressed.] (Mus.)
(a) The crowding of answer upon subject near the end of a fugue.
(b) In an opera or oratorio, a coda, or winding up, in an accelerated
time. [Written also stretta.]

STREW
Strew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strewed; p. p. strewn; p. pr. & vb. n.
Strewing.] Etym: [OE. strewen, strawen, AS. strewian, streowian; akin
to Ofries. strewa, OS. strewian, D. strooijen, G. streuen, OHG.
strewen, Icel. stra, Sw. stro, Dan. stroe, Goth. straujan, L.
sternere, stratum, Gr. st. *166. Cf. Stratum, Straw, Street.]

1. To scatter; to spread by scattering; to cast or to throw loosely
apart; -- used of solids, separated or separable into parts or
particles; as, to strew seed in beds; to strew sand on or over a
floor; to strew flowers over a grave.
And strewed his mangled limbs about the field. Dryden.
On a principal table a desk was open and many papers [were] strewn
about. Beaconsfield.

2. To cover more or less thickly by scattering something over or
upon; to cover, or lie upon, by having been scattered; as, they
strewed the ground with leaves; leaves strewed the ground.
The snow which does the top of Pindus strew. Spenser.
Is thine alone the seed that strews the plain Pope.

3. To spread abroad; to disseminate.
She may strew dangerous conjectures. Shak.

STREWING
Strew"ing, n.

1. The act of scattering or spreading.

2. Anything that is, or may be, strewed; -- used chiefly in the
plural. Shak.

STREWMENT
Strew"ment, n.

Defn: Anything scattered, as flowers for decoration. [Obs.] Shak.

STREWN
Strewn,

Defn: p. p. of Strew.

STRIA
Stri"a, n.; pl. Stri?. Etym: [L., a furrow, channel, hollow.]

1. A minute groove, or channel; a threadlike line, as of color; a
narrow structural band or line; a striation; as, the stri?, or
groovings, produced on a rock by a glacier passing over it; the stri?
on the surface of a shell; a stria of nervous matter in the brain.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A fillet between the flutes of columns, pilasters, or the like.
Oxf. Gloss.

STRIATE
Stri"ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Striated; p. pr. & vb. n. Striating.]
Etym: [See Striate, a.]

Defn: To mark with stria?. "Striated longitudinally." Owen.

STRIATE; STRIATED
Stri"ate, Stri"a*ted, a. Etym: [L. striatus, p.p. of striare to
furnish with channels, from stria a channel.]

Defn: Marked with stria?, or fine grooves, or lines of color; showing
narrow structural bands or lines; as, a striated crystal; striated
muscular fiber.

STRIATION
Stri*a"tion, n.

1. The quality or condition of being striated.

2. A stria; as, the striations on a shell.

STRIATUM
Stri*a"tum, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: The corpus striatum.

STRIATURE
Stri"a*ture, n. Etym: [L. striatura.]

Defn: A stria.

STRICH
Strich, n. Etym: [Cf. L. strix, strigs, a streech owl.] (Zool.)

Defn: An owl. [Obs.] Spenser.

STRICK
Strick, n.

Defn: A bunch of hackled flax prepared for drawing into slivers.
Knight.

STRICKEN
Strick"en, p. p. & a. from Strike.

1. Struck; smitten; wounded; as, the stricken deer.

Note: [See Strike, n.]

2. Worn out; far gone; advanced. See Strike, v. t., 21.
Abraham was old and well stricken in age. Gen. xxiv. 1.

3. Whole; entire; -- said of the hour as marked by the striking of a
clock. [Scot.]
He persevered for a stricken hour in such a torrent of unnecessary
tattle. Sir W. Scott.
Speeches are spoken by the stricken hour, day after day, week,
perhaps, after week. Bayne.

STRICKLE
Stric"kle, n. Etym: [See Strike.]

1. An instrument to strike grain to a level with the measure; a
strike.

2. An instrument for whetting scythes; a rifle.

3. (Founding)

Defn: An instrument used for smoothing the surface of a core.

4. (Carp. & Mason.)

Defn: A templet; a pattern.

5. An instrument used in dressing flax. [Prov. Eng.]

STRICKLER
Stric"kler, n.

Defn: See Strickle.

STRICKLESS
Strick"less, n.

Defn: See Strickle. [Prov. Eng.]

STRICT
Strict, a. [Compar. Stricter; superl. Strictest.] Etym: [L. strictus,
p.p. of stringere to draw or bind tight, to strain. See Strain, and
cf. Strait, a.]

1. Strained; drawn close; tight; as, a strict embrace; a strict
ligature. Dryden.

2. Tense; not relaxed; as, a strict fiber.

3. Exact; accurate; precise; rigorously nice; as, to keep strict
watch; to pay strict attention. Shak.
It shall be still in strictest measure. Milton.

4. Governed or governing by exact rules; observing exact rules;
severe; rigorous; as, very strict in observing the Sabbath. "Through
the strict senteries." Milton.

5. Rigidly; interpreted; exactly limited; confined; restricted; as,
to understand words in a strict sense.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: Upright, or straight and narrow; -- said of the shape of the
plants or their flower clusters.

Syn.
 -- Exact; accurate; nice; close; rigorous; severe.
 -- Strict, Severe. Strict, applied to a person, denotes that he
conforms in his motives and acts to a principle or code by which he
is bound; severe is strict with an implication often, but not always,
of harshness. Strict is opposed to lax; severe is opposed to gentle.
And rules as strict his labored work confine, As if the Stagirite
o'erlooked each line. Pope.
Soon moved with touch of blame, thus Eve: -"What words have passed
thy lips, Adam severe!" Milton.
The Strict Observance, or Friars of the Strict Observance. (R. C.
Ch.) See Observance.

STRICTION
Stric"tion, n. Etym: [L. strictio. See Stringent.]

Defn: The act of constricting, or the state of being constricted.
Line of striction (Geom.), the line on a skew surface that cuts each
generator in that point of it that is nearest to the succeeding
generator.

STRICTLY
Strict"ly, adv.

Defn: In a strict manner; closely; precisely.

STRICTNESS
Strict"ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being strict.

STRICTURE
Stric"ture, n. Etym: [L. strictura a contraction, from stringere,
strictum, to draw tight: cf. F. stricture. See Strict.]

1. Strictness. [Obs.]
A man of stricture and firm abstinence. Shak.

2. A stroke; a glance; a touch. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

3. A touch of adverse criticism; censure.
[I have] given myself the liberty of these strictures by way of
reflection on all and every passage. Hammond.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A localized morbid contraction of any passage of the body. Cf.
Organic stricture, and Spasmodic stricture, under Organic, and
Spasmodic. Arbuthnot.

STRICTURED
Stric"tured, a. (Med.)

Defn: Affected with a stricture; as, a strictured duct.

STRID
Strid, n. Etym: [See Stride.]

Defn: A narrow passage between precipitous rocks or banks, which
looks as if it might be crossed at a stride. [Prov. Eng.] Howitt.
This striding place is called the Strid. Wordsworth.

STRIDE
Stride, v. t. [imp. Strode (Obs. Strid (); p. p. Stridden (Obs.
Strid); p. pr. & vb. n. Striding.] Etym: [AS. stridan to stride, to
strive; akin to LG. striden, OFries. strida to strive, D. strijden to
strive, to contend, G. streiten, OHG. stritan; of uncertain origin.
Cf. Straddle.]

1. To walk with long steps, especially in a measured or pompous
manner.
Mars in the middle of the shining shield Is graved, and strides along
the liquid field. Dryden.

2. To stand with the legs wide apart; to straddle.

STRIDE
Stride, v. t.

1. To pass over at a step; to step over. "A debtor that not dares to
stride a limit." Shak.

2. To straddle; to bestride.
I mean to stride your steed. Shak.

STRIDE
Stride, n.

Defn: The act of stridding; a long step; the space measured by a long
step; as, a masculine stride. Pope.
God never meant that man should scale the heavens By strides of human
wisdom. Cowper.

STRIDENT
Stri"dent, a. Etym: [L. stridens, -entis, p.pr. of stridere to make a
grating or creaking noise.]

Defn: Characterized by harshness; grating; shrill. "A strident
voice." Thackeray.

STRIDOR
Stri"dor, n. Etym: [L., from stridere to make any harsh, grating, or
creaking sound.]

Defn: A harsh, shrill, or creaking noise. Dryden.

STRIDULATE
Strid"u*late, v. t. Etym: [See Stridulous.]

Defn: To make a shrill, creaking noise; specifically (Zool.),

Defn: to make a shrill or musical sound, such as is made by the males
of many insects.

STRIDULATION
Strid`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: The act of stridulating. Specifically: (Zool.)
(a) The act of making shrill sounds or musical notes by rubbing
together certain hard parts, as is done by the males of many insects,
especially by Orthoptera, such as crickets, grasshoppers, and
locusts.
(b) The noise itself.

Note: The crickets stridulate by rubbing together the strong nervures
of the fore wings. Many grasshoppers stridulate by rubbing the hind
legs across strong nervures on the fore wings. The green grasshoppers
and katydids stridulate by means of special organs at the base of the
fore wings.

STRIDULATOR
Strid"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: That which stridulates. Darwin.

STRIDULATORY
Strid"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Stridulous; able to stridulate; used in stridulating; adapted
for stridulation. Darwin.

STRIDULOUS
Strid"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. stridulus. See Strident.]

Defn: Making a shrill, creaking sound. Sir T. Browne.
The Sarmatian boor driving his stridulous cart. Longfellow.
Stridulous laryngitis (Med.), a form of croup, or laryngitis, in
children, associated with dyspnoea, occurring usually at night, and
marked by crowing or stridulous breathing.

STRIFE
Strife, n. Etym: [OF. estrif. See Strive.]

1. The act of striving; earnest endeavor. [Archaic] Shak.

2. Exertion or contention for superiority; contest of emulation,
either by intellectual or physical efforts.
Doting about questions and strifes of words. 1 Tim. vi. 4.
Thus gods contended -- noble strife -Who most should ease the wants
of life. Congreve.

3. Altercation; violent contention; fight; battle.
Twenty of them fought in this black strife. Shak.
These vows, thus granted, raised a strife above Betwixt the god of
war and queen of love. Dryden.

4. That which is contended against; occasion of contest. [Obs.]
"Lamenting her unlucky strife." Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Contest; struggle; quarrel. See Contention.

STRIFEFUL
Strife"ful, a.

Defn: Contentious; discordant.
The ape was strifeful and ambitious. Spenser.

STRIGATE
Stri"gate, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having transverse bands of color.

STRIGES
Stri"ges, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of strix a streech owl; cf. Gr.
(Zool.)

Defn: The tribe of birds which comprises the owls.

STRIGIL
Strig"il, n. Etym: [L. strigilis, from stringere to graze, scrape.]
(Gr. & Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An instrument of metal, ivory, etc., used for scraping the skin
at the bath.

STRIGILLOSE
Strig"il*lose`, a. Etym: [Dim. fr. strigose.] (Bot.)

Defn: Set with stiff, slender bristles.

STRIGINE
Stri"gine, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to owls; owl-like.

STRIGMENT
Strig"ment, n. Etym: [L. strigmentum.]

Defn: Scraping; that which is scraped off. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

STRIGOSE
Stri*gose", a. Etym: [Cf. F. strigueux. See Strigil.] (Bot.)

Defn: Set with stiff, straight bristles; hispid; as, a strigose leaf.

STRIGOUS
Stri"gous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Strigose. [R.]

STRIKE
Strike, v. t. [imp. Struck; p. p. Struck, Stricken ( (Stroock (,
Strucken (, Obs.); p. pr. & vb. n. Striking. Struck is more commonly
used in the p.p. than stricken.] Etym: [OE. striken to strike,
proceed, flow, AS. strican to go, proceed, akin to D. strijken to
rub, stroke, strike, to move, go, G. streichen, OHG. strihhan, L.
stringere to touch lightly, to graze, to strip off (but perhaps not
to L. stringere in sense to draw tight), striga a row, a furrow. Cf.
Streak, Stroke.]

1. To touch or hit with some force, either with the hand or with an
instrument; to smite; to give a blow to, either with the hand or with
any instrument or missile.
He at Philippi kept His sword e'en like a dancer; while I struck The
lean and wrinkled Cassius. Shak.

2. To come in collision with; to strike against; as, a bullet struck
him; the wave struck the boat amidships; the ship struck a reef.

3. To give, as a blow; to impel, as with a blow; to give a force to;
to dash; to cast.
They shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two sideposts. Ex.
xii. 7.
Who would be free, themselves must strike the blow. Byron.

4. To stamp or impress with a stroke; to coin; as, to strike coin
from metal: to strike dollars at the mint.

5. To thrust in; to cause to enter or penetrate; to set in the earth;
as, a tree strikes its roots deep.

6. To punish; to afflict; to smite.
To punish the just is not good, nor strike princes for equity. Prov.
xvii. 26.

7. To cause to sound by one or more beats; to indicate or notify by
audible strokes; as, the clock strikes twelve; the drums strike up a
march.

8. To lower; to let or take down; to remove; as, to strike sail; to
strike a flag or an ensign, as in token of surrender; to strike a
yard or a topmast in a gale; to strike a tent; to strike the
centering of an arch.

9. To make a sudden impression upon, as by a blow; to affect sensibly
with some strong emotion; as, to strike the mind, with surprise; to
strike one with wonder, alarm, dread, or horror.
Nice works of art strike and surprise us most on the first view.
Atterbury.
They please as beauties, here as wonders strike. Pope.

10. To affect in some particular manner by a sudden impression or
impulse; as, the plan proposed strikes me favorably; to strike one
dead or blind.
How often has stricken you dumb with his irony! Landor.

11. To cause or produce by a stroke, or suddenly, as by a stroke; as,
to strike a light.
Waving wide her myrtle wand, She strikes a universal peace through
sea and land. Milton.

12. To cause to ignite; as, to strike a match.

13. To make and ratify; as, to strike a bargain.

Note: Probably borrowed from the L. foedus ferrire, to strike a
compact, so called because an animal was struck and killed as a
sacrifice on such occasions.

14. To take forcibly or fraudulently; as, to strike money. [Old
Slang]

15. To level, as a measure of grain, salt, or the like, by scraping
off with a straight instrument what is above the level of the top.

16. (Masonry)

Defn: To cut off, as a mortar joint, even with the face of the wall,
or inward at a slight angle.

17. To hit upon, or light upon, suddenly; as, my eye struck a strange
word; they soon struck the trail.

18. To borrow money of; to make a demand upon; as, he struck a friend
for five dollars. [Slang]

19. To lade into a cooler, as a liquor. B. Edwards.

20. To stroke or pass lightly; to wave.
Behold, I thought, He will . . . strike his hand over the place, and
recover the leper. 2 Kings v. 11.

21. To advance; to cause to go forward; -- used only in past
participle. "Well struck in years." Shak. To strike an attitude, To
strike a balance. See under Attitude, and Balance.
 -- To strike a jury (Law), to constitute a special jury ordered by a
court, by each party striking out a certain number of names from a
prepared list of jurors, so as to reduce it to the number of persons
required by law. Burrill.
 -- To strike a lead. (a) (Mining) To find a vein of ore. (b) Fig.:
To find a way to fortune. [Colloq.] -- To strike a ledger, or an
account, to balance it.
 -- To strike hands with. (a) To shake hands with. Halliwell. (b) To
make a compact or agreement with; to agree with.
 -- To strike off. (a) To erase from an account; to deduct; as, to
strike off the interest of a debt. (b) (Print.) To impress; to print;
as, to strike off a thousand copies of a book. (c) To separate by a
blow or any sudden action; as, to strike off what is superfluous or
corrupt.
 -- To strike oil, to find petroleum when boring for it;
figuratively, to make a lucky hit financially. [Slang, U.S.] -- To
strike one luck, to shake hands with one and wish good luck. [Obs.]
Beau. & Fl.
 -- To strike out. (a) To produce by collision; to force out, as, to
strike out sparks with steel. (b) To blot out; to efface; to erase.
"To methodize is as necessary as to strike out." Pope. (c) To form by
a quick effort; to devise; to invent; to contrive, as, to strike out
a new plan of finance. (d) (Baseball) To cause a player to strike
out; -- said of the pitcher. See To strike out, under Strike, v. i.
 -- To strike sail. See under Sail.
 -- To strike up. (a) To cause to sound; to begin to beat. "Strike up
the drums." Shak. (b) To begin to sing or play; as, to strike up a
tune. (c) To raise (as sheet metal), in making diahes, pans, etc., by
blows or pressure in a die.
 -- To strike work, to quit work; to go on a strike.

STRIKE
Strike, v. i.

Defn: To move; to advance; to proceed; to take a course; as, to
strike into the fields.
A mouse . . . struck forth sternly [bodily]. Piers Plowman.

2. To deliver a quick blow or thrust; to give blows.
And fiercely took his trenchant blade in hand, With which he stroke
so furious and so fell. Spenser.
Strike now, or else the iron cools. Shak.

3. To hit; to collide; to dush; to clash; as, a hammer strikes
against the bell of a clock.

4. To sound by percussion, with blows, or as with blows; to be
struck; as, the clock strikes.
A deep sound strikes like a rising knell. Byron.

5. To make an attack; to aim a blow.
A puny subject strikes At thy great glory. Shak.
Struck for throne, and striking found his doom. Tennyson.

6. To touch; to act by appulse.
Hinder light but from striking on it [porphyry], and its colors
vanish. Locke.

7. To run upon a rock or bank; to be stranded; as, the ship struck in
the night.

8. To pass with a quick or strong effect; to dart; to penetrate.
Till a dart strike through his liver. Prov. vii. 23.
Now and then a glittering beam of wit or passion strikes through the
obscurity of the poem. Dryden.

9. To break forth; to commence suddenly; -- with into; as, to strike
into reputation; to strike into a run.

10. To lower a flag, or colors, in token of respect, or to signify a
surrender of a ship to an enemy.
That the English ships of war should not strike in the Danish seas.
Bp. Burnet.

11. To quit work in order to compel an increase, or prevent a
reduction, of wages.

12. To become attached to something; -- said of the spat of oysters.

13. To steal money. [Old Slang, Eng.] Nares. To strike at, to aim a
blow at.
 -- To strike for, to start suddenly on a course for.
 -- To strike home, to give a blow which reaches its object, to
strike with effect.
 -- To strike in. (a) To enter suddenly. (b) To disappear from the
surface, with internal effects, as an eruptive disease. (c) To come
in suddenly; to interpose; to interrupt. "I proposed the embassy of
Constantinople for Mr. Henshaw, but my Lord Winchelsea struck in."
Evelyn. (d) To join in after another has begun,as in singing.
 -- To strike in with, to conform to; to suit itself to; to side
with, to join with at once. "To assert this is to strike in with the
known enemies of God's grace." South. To strike out. (a) To start; to
wander; to make a sudden excursion; as, to strike out into an
irregular course of life. (b) To strike with full force. (c)
(Baseball) To be put out for not hitting the ball during one's turn
at the bat.
 -- To strike up, to commence to play as a musician; to begin to
sound, as an instrument. "Whilst any trump did sound, or drum struck
up." Shak.

STRIKE
Strike, n.

1. The act of striking.

2. An instrument with a straight edge for leveling a measure of
grain, salt, and the like, scraping off what is above the level of
the top; a strickle.

3. A bushel; four pecks. [Prov. Eng.] Tusser.

4. An old measure of four bushels. [Prov. Eng.]

5. Fullness of measure; hence, excellence of quality.
Three hogsheads of ale of the first strike. Sir W. Scott.

6. An iron pale or standard in a gate or fence. [Obs.]

7. The act of quitting work; specifically, such an act by a body of
workmen, done as a means of enforcing compliance with demands made on
their employer.
Strikes are the insurrections of labor. F. A. Walker.

8. (Iron Working)

Defn: A puddler's stirrer.

9. (Geol.)

Defn: The horizontal direction of the outcropping edges of tilted
rocks; or, the direction of a horizontal line supposed to be drawn on
the surface of a tilted stratum. It is at right angles to the dip.

10. The extortion of money, or the attempt to extort money, by threat
of injury; blackmailing. Strike block (Carp.), a plane shorter than a
jointer, used for fitting a short joint. Moxon.
 -- Strike of flax, a handful that may be hackled at once. [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.] Chaucer.
 -- Strike of sugar. (Sugar Making) (a) The act of emptying the
teache, or last boiler, in which the cane juice is exposed to heat,
into the coolers. (b) The quantity of the sirup thus emptied at once.

STRIKER
Strik"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, strikes; specifically, a blacksmith's
helper who wieds the sledge.

2. A harpoon; also, a harpooner.
Wherever we come to an anchor, we always send out our strikers, and
put out hooks and lines overboard, to try fish. Dampier.

3. A wencher; a lewd man. [Obs.] Massinger.

4. A workman who is on a strike.

5. A blackmailer in politics; also, one whose political influence can
be bought. [Political Cant]

STRIKING
Strik"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Strike, v. Striking distance, the distance through
which an object can be reached by striking; the distance at which a
force is effective when directed to a particular object.
 -- Striking plate. (a) The plate against which the latch of a door
lock strikes as the door is closed. (b) A part of the centering of an
arch, which is driven back to loosen the centering in striking it.

STRIKING
Strik"ing, a.

Defn: Affecting with strong emotions; surprising; forcible;
impressive; very noticeable; as, a striking representation or image;
a striking resemblance. "A striking fact." De Quincey.
 -- Strik"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Strik"ing*ness, n.

STRIKLE
Strik"le, n.

Defn: See Strickle.

STRING
String, n. Etym: [OE. string, streng, AS. streng; akin to D. streng,
G. strang, Icel. strengr, Sw. strang, Dan. str?ng; probably from the
adj., E. strong (see Strong); or perhaps originally meaning, twisted,
and akin to E. strangle.]

1. A small cord, a line, a twine, or a slender strip of leather, or
other substance, used for binding together, fastening, or tying
things; a cord, larger than a thread and smaller than a rope; as, a
shoe string; a bonnet string; a silken string. Shak.
Round Ormond's knee thou tiest the mystic string. Prior.

2. A thread or cord on which a number of objects or parts are strung
or arranged in close and orderly succession; hence, a line or series
of things arranged on a thread, or as if so arranged; a succession; a
concatenation; a chain; as, a string of shells or beads; a string of
dried apples; a string of houses; a string of arguments. "A string of
islands." Gibbon.

3. A strip, as of leather, by which the covers of a book are held
together. Milton.

4. The cord of a musical instrument, as of a piano, harp, or violin;
specifically (pl.), the stringed instruments of an orchestra, in
distinction from the wind instruments; as, the strings took up the
theme. "An instrument of ten strings." Ps. xxx. iii. 2.
Me softer airs befit, and softer strings Of lute, or viol still.
Milton.

5. The line or cord of a bow. Ps. xi. 2.
He twangs the grieving string. Pope.

6. A fiber, as of a plant; a little, fibrous root.
Duckweed putteth forth a little string into the water, from the
bottom. Bacon.

7. A nerve or tendon of an animal body.
The string of his tongue was loosed. Mark vii. 35.

8. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: An inside range of ceiling planks, corresponding to the sheer
strake on the outside and bolted to it.

9. (Bot.)

Defn: The tough fibrous substance that unites the valves of the
pericap of leguminous plants, and which is readily pulled off; as,
the strings of beans.

10. (Mining)

Defn: A small, filamentous ramification of a metallic vein. Ure.

11. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Stringcourse.

12. (Billiards)

Defn: The points made in a game. String band (Mus.), a band of
musicians using only, or chiefly, stringed instruments.
 -- String beans. (a) A dish prepared from the unripe pods of several
kinds of beans; -- so called because the strings are stripped off.
(b) Any kind of beans in which the pods are used for cooking before
the seeds are ripe; usually, the low bush bean.
 -- To have two strings to one's bow, to have a means or expedient in
reserve in case the one employed fails.

STRING
String, v. t. [imp. Strung; p. p. Strung (R. Stringed); p. pr. & vb.
n. Stringing.]

1. To furnish with strings; as, to string a violin.
Has not wise nature strung the legs and feet With firmest nerves,
designed to walk the street Gay.

2. To put in tune the strings of, as a stringed instrument, in order
to play upon it.
For here the Muse so oft her harp has strung, That not a mountain
rears its head unsung. Addison.

3. To put on a string; to file; as, to string beads.

4. To make tense; to strengthen.
Toil strung the nerves, and purified the blood. Dryden.

5. To deprive of strings; to strip the strings from; as, to string
beans. See String, n., 9.

STRINGBOARD
String"board`, n.

Defn: Same as Stringpiece.

STRINGCOURSE
String"course`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A horizontal band in a building, forming a part of the design,
whether molded, projecting, or carved, or in any way distinguished
from the rest of the work.

STRINGED
Stringed, a.

1. Having strings; as, a stringed instrument. Ps. cl. 4.

2. Produced by strings. "Answering the stringed noise." Milton.

STRINGENCY
Strin"gen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stringent.

STRINGENDO
Strin"gen*do, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Urging or hastening the time, as to a climax.

STRINGENT
Strin"gent, a. Etym: [L. stringens, -entis, p.pr. of stringere to
draw or bind tight. See Strain.]

Defn: Binding strongly; making strict requirements; restrictive;
rigid; severe; as, stringent rules.
They must be subject to a sharper penal code, and to a more stringent
code of procedure. Macaulay.
-- Strin"gent*ly, adv.
 -- Strin"gent*ness, n.

STRINGER
String"er, n.

1. One who strings; one who makes or provides strings, especially for
bows.
Be content to put your trust in honest stringers. Ascham.

2. A libertine; a wencher. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

3. (Railroad)

Defn: A longitudinal sleeper.

4. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A streak of planking carried round the inside of a vessel on
the under side of the beams.

5. (Carp.)

Defn: A long horizontal timber to connect uprights in a frame, or to
support a floor or the like.

STRINGHALT
String"halt`, n. (Far.)

Defn: An habitual sudden twitching of the hinder leg of a horse, or
an involuntary or convulsive contraction of the muscles that raise
the hock. [Written also springhalt.]

STRINGINESS
String"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being stringy.

STRINGLESS
String"less, a.

Defn: Having no strings.
His tongue is now a stringless instrument. Shak.

STRINGPIECE
String"piece`, n. (Arch.)
(a) A long piece of timber, forming a margin or edge of any piece of
construction; esp.:
(b) One of the longitudinal pieces, supporting the treads and rises
of a flight or run of stairs.

STRINGY
String"y, a.

1. Consisting of strings, or small threads; fibrous; filamentous; as,
a stringy root.

2. Capable of being drawn into a string, as a glutinous substance;
ropy; viscid; gluely. Stringy bark (Bot.), a name given in Australia
to several trees of the genus Eucalyptus (as E. amygdalina, obliqua,
capitellata, macrorhyncha, piperita, pilularis, and tetradonta),
which have a fibrous bark used by the aborigines for making cordage
and cloth.

STRIP
Strip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stripped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stripping.]
Etym: [OE. stripen, strepen, AS. str in bestr to plunder; akin to D.
stroopen, MHG. stroufen, G. streifen.]

1. To deprive; to bereave; to make destitute; to plunder; especially,
to deprive of a covering; to skin; to peel; as, to strip a man of his
possession, his rights, his privileges, his reputation; to strip one
of his clothes; to strip a beast of his skin; to strip a tree of its
bark.
And strippen her out of her rude array. Chaucer.
They stripped Joseph out of his coat. Gen. xxxvii. 23.
Opinions which . . . no clergyman could have avowed without imminent
risk of being stripped of his gown. Macaulay.

2. To divest of clothing; to uncover.
Before the folk herself strippeth she. Chaucer.
Strip your sword stark naked. Shak.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: To dismantle; as, to strip a ship of rigging, spars, etc.

4. (Agric.)

Defn: To pare off the surface of, as land, in strips.

5. To deprive of all milk; to milk dry; to draw the last milk from;
hence, to milk with a peculiar movement of the hand on the teats at
the last of a milking; as, to strip a cow.

6. To pass; to get clear of; to outstrip. [Obs.]
When first they stripped the Malean promontory. Chapman.
Before he reached it he was out of breath, And then the other
stripped him. Beau. & Fl.

7. To pull or tear off, as a covering; to remove; to wrest away; as,
to strip the skin from a beast; to strip the bark from a tree; to
strip the clothes from a man's back; to strip away all disguisses.
To strip bad habits from a corrupted heart, is stripping off the
skin. Gilpin.

8. (Mach.)
(a) To tear off (the thread) from a bolt or nut; as, the thread is
stripped.
(b) To tear off the thread from (a bolt or nut); as, the bolt is
stripped.

9. To remove the metal coating from (a plated article), as by acids
or electrolytic action.

10. (Carding)

Defn: To remove fiber, flock, or lint from; -- said of the teeth of a
card when it becomes partly clogged.

11. To pick the cured leaves from the stalks of (tobacco) and tie
them into "hands"; to remove the midrib from (tobacco leaves).

STRIP
Strip, v. i.

1. To take off, or become divested of, clothes or covering; to
undress.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: To fail in the thread; to lose the thread, as a bolt, screw, or
nut. See Strip, v. t., 8.

STRIP
Strip, n.

1. A narrow piece, or one comparatively long; as, a strip of cloth; a
strip of land.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A trough for washing ore.

3. (Gunnery)

Defn: The issuing of a projectile from a rifled gun without acquiring
the spiral motion. Farrow.

STRIPE
Stripe, n. Etym: [OD. strijpe a stripe, streak; akin to LG. stripe,
D. streep, Dan. stribe, G. strief, striefen, MHG. striefen to glide,
march.]

1. A line, or long, narrow division of anything of a different color
or structure from the ground; hence, any linear variation of color or
structure; as, a stripe, or streak, of red on a green ground; a
raised stripe.

2. (Weaving)

Defn: A pattern produced by arranging the warp threads in sets of
alternating colors, or in sets presenting some other contrast of
appearance.

3. A strip, or long, narrow piece attached to something of a
different color; as, a red or blue stripe sewed upon a garment.

4. A stroke or blow made with a whip, rod, scourge, or the like, such
as usually leaves a mark.
Forty stripes he may give him, and not exceed. Deut. xxv. 3.

5. A long, narrow discoloration of the skin made by the blow of a
lash, rod, or the like.
Cruelty marked him with inglorious stripes. Thomson.

6. Color indicating a party or faction; hence, distinguishing
characteristic; sign; likeness; sort; as, persons of the same
political stripe. [Colloq. U.S.]

7. pl. (Mil.)

Defn: The chevron on the coat of a noncommissioned officer. Stars and
Stripes. See under Star, n.

STRIPE
Stripe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Striped; p. pr. & vb. n. Striping.]

1. To make stripes upon; to form with lines of different colors or
textures; to variegate with stripes.

2. To strike; to lash. [R.]

STRIPED
Striped, a.

Defn: Having stripes of different colors; streaked. Striped bass.
(Zool.) See under Bass.
 -- Striped maple (Bot.), a slender American tree (Acer
Pennsylvanicum) with finely striped bark. Called also striped
dogwood, and moosewood.
 -- Striped mullet. (Zool.) See under Mullet, 2.
 -- Striped snake (Zool.), the garter snake.
 -- Striped squirrel (Zool.), the chipmunk.

STRIP-LEAF
Strip"-leaf`, n.

Defn: Tobacco which has been stripped of its stalks before packing.

STRIPLING
Strip"ling, n. Etym: [Dim. of strip; as if a small strip from the
main stock or steam.]

Defn: A youth in the state of adolescence, or just passing from
boyhood to manhood; a lad.
Inquire thou whose son the stripling is. 1 Sam. xvii. 56.

STRIPPER
Strip"per, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, strips; specifically, a machine for
stripping cards.

STRIPPET
Strip"pet, n. Etym: [Dim. of strip.]

Defn: A small stream. [Obs.] "A little brook or strippet." Holinshed.

STRIPPING
Strip"ping, n.

1. The act of one who strips.
The mutual bows and courtesies . . . are remants of the original
prostrations and strippings of the captive. H. Spencer.
Never were cows that required such stripping. Mrs. Gaskell.

2. pl.

Defn: The last milk drawn from a cow at a milking.

STRISORES
Stri*so"res, n. pl. Etym: [NL.; cf. L. stridere to creak, whiz,
buzz.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of passerine birds including the humming birds,
swifts, and goatsuckers. It is now generally considered an artificial
group.

STRIVE
Strive, v. i. [imp. Strove; p. p. Striven (Rarely, Strove); p. pr. &
vb. n. Striving.] Etym: [OF. estriver; of Teutonic origin, and akin
to G. streben, D. streven, Dan. str?be, Sw. strafva. Cf. Strife.]

1. To make efforts; to use exertions; to endeavor with earnestness;
to labor hard.
Was for this his ambition strove To equal C?sar first, and after,
Jove Cowley.

2. To struggle in opposition; to be in contention or dispute; to
contend; to contest; -- followed by against or with before the person
or thing opposed; as, strive against temptation; strive for the
truth. Chaucer.
My Spirit shall not always strive with man. Gen. vi. 3.
Why dost thou strive against him Job xxxiii. 13.
Now private pity strove with public hate, Reason with rage, and
eloquence with fate. Denham.

3. To vie; to compete; to be a rival. Chaucer.
[Not] that sweet grove Of Daphne, by Orontes and the inspired
Castalian spring, might with this paradise Of Eden strive. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To contend; vie; struggle; endeavor; aim.

STRIVE
Strive, n.

1. An effort; a striving. [R.] Chapman.

2. Strife; contention. [Obs.] Wyclif (luke xxi. 9).

STRIVED
Strived, obs. p. p. of Strive.

Defn: Striven.
Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel. Rom. xv. 20.

STRIVEN
Striv"en,

Defn: p. p. of Strive.

STRIVER
Striv"er, n.

Defn: One who strives.

STRIVING
Striv"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Strive.
 -- Striv"ing*ly, adv.

STRIX
Strix, n. Etym: [L. strix, strigis.] (Arch.)

Defn: One of the flutings of a column.

STROAM
Stroam, v. i. Etym: [Prov. E. strome to walk with long strides.]

1. To wander about idly and vacantly. [Obs.]

2. To take long strides in walking. [Prov. Eng.]

STROBILA
Stro*bi"la, n.; pl. Strobil?. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)
(a) A form of the larva of certain Discophora in a state of
development succeeding the scyphistoma. The body of the strobila
becomes elongated, and subdivides transversely into a series of
lobate segments which eventually become ephyr?, or young medus?.
(b) A mature tapeworm.

STROBILACEOUS
Strob`i*la"ceous, a. Etym: [See Strobila.] (Bot.)
(a) Of or pertaining to a strobile or cone.
(b) Producing strobiles.

STROBILATION
Strob`i*la"tion, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The act or phenomenon of spontaneously dividing transversely,
as do certain species of annelids and helminths; transverse fission.
See Illust. under Syllidian.

STROBILE
Strob"ile, n. Etym: [L. strobilus a pine cone, Gr. strobole.]
[Written also strobil.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A scaly multiple fruit resulting from the ripening of an ament
in certain plants, as the hop or pine; a cone. See Cone, n., 3.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: An individual asexually producing sexual individuals differing
from itself also in other respects, as the tapeworm, -- one of the
forms that occur in metagenesis.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Strobila.

STROBILIFORM
Stro*bil"i*form, a.

Defn: Shaped like a strobile.

STROBILINE
Strob"i*line, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a strobile; strobilaceous; strobiliform;
as, strobiline fruits.

STROBOSCOPE
Strob"o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

1. An instrument for studying or observing the successive phases of a
periodic or varying motion by means of light which is periodically
interrupted.

2. An optical toy similar to the phenakistoscope. See
Phenakistoscope.

STROCKLE
Stroc"kle, n. (Glass Manuf.)

Defn: A shovel with a turned-up edge, for frit, sand, etc. [Written
also strocal, strocle, strokal.]

STRODE
Strode, n.

Defn: See Strude. [Obs.]

STRODE
Strode,

Defn: imp. of Stride.

STROKE
Stroke, obs. imp. of Strike.

Defn: Struck.

STROKE
Stroke, n. Etym: [OE. strok, strook, strak, fr. striken. See Strike,
v. t.]

1. The act of striking; a blow; a hit; a knock; esp., a violent or
hostile attack made with the arm or hand, or with an instrument or
weapon.
His hand fetcheth a stroke with the ax to cut down the tree. Deut.
xix. 5.
A fool's lips enter into contention and his mouth calleth for
strokes. Prov. xviii. 6.
He entered and won the whole kingdom of Naples without striking a
stroke. Bacon.

2. The result of effect of a striking; injury or affliction;
soreness.
In the day that Lord bindeth up the breach of his people, and healeth
the stroke of their wound. Isa. xxx. 26.

3. The striking of the clock to tell the hour.
Well, but what's o'clock - Upon the stroke of ten.
 -- Well, let is strike. Shak.

4. A gentle, caressing touch or movement upon something; a stroking.
Dryden.

5. A mark or dash in writing or printing; a line; the touch of a pen
or pencil; as, an up stroke; a firm stroke.
O, lasting as those colors may they shine, Free as thy stroke, yet
faultless as thy line. Pope.

6. Hence, by extension, an addition or amandment to a written
composition; a touch; as, to give some finishing strokes to an essay.
Addison.

7. A sudden attack of disease; especially, a fatal attack; a severe
disaster; any affliction or calamity, especially a sudden one; as, a
stroke of apoplexy; the stroke of death.
At this one stroke the man looked dead in law. Harte.

8. A throb or beat, as of the heart. Tennyson.

9. One of a series of beats or movements against a resisting medium,
by means of which movement through or upon it is accomplished; as,
the stroke of a bird's wing in flying, or an oar in rowing, of a
skater, swimmer, etc.; also: (Rowing)
(a) The rate of succession of stroke; as, a quick stroke.
(b) The oar nearest the stern of a boat, by which the other oars are
guided; -- called also stroke oar.
(c) The rower who pulls the stroke oar; the strokesman.

10. A powerful or sudden effort by which something is done, produced,
or accomplished; also, something done or accomplished by such an
effort; as, a stroke of genius; a stroke of business; a master stroke
of policy.

11. (Mach.)

Defn: The movement, in either direction, of the piston plunger,
piston rod, crosshead, etc., as of a steam engine or a pump, in which
these parts have a reciprocating motion; as, the forward stroke of a
piston; also, the entire distance passed through, as by a piston, in
such a movement; as, the piston is at half stroke.

Note: The respective strokes are distinguished as up and down
strokes, outward and inward strokes, forward and back strokes, the
forward stroke in stationary steam engines being toward the
crosshead, but in locomotives toward the front of the vehicle.

12. Power; influence. [Obs.] "Where money beareth [hath] all the
stroke." Robynson (More's Utopia).
He has a great stroke with the reader. Dryden.

13. Appetite. [Obs.] Swift. To keep stroke, to make strokes in
unison.
The oars where silver, Which to the tune of flutes kept stroke. Shak.

STROKE
Stroke, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strokeed; p. pr. & vb. n. Strokeing.]
Etym: [OE. stroken, straken, AS. stracian, fr. strican to go over,
pass. See Strike, v. t., and cf. Straggle.]

1. To strike. [Obs.]
Ye mote with the plat sword again Stroken him in the wound, and it
will close. Chaucer.

2. To rib gently in one direction; especially, to pass the hand
gently over by way of expressing kindness or tenderness; to caress;
to soothe.
He dried the falling drops, and, yet more kind, He stroked her
cheeks. Dryden.

3. To make smooth by rubbing. Longfellow.

4. (Masonry)

Defn: To give a finely fluted surface to.

5. To row the stroke oar of; as, to stroke a boat.

STROKER
Strok"er, n.

Defn: One who strokes; also, one who pretends to cure by stroking.
Cures worked by Greatrix the stroker. Bp. Warburton.

STROKESMAN
Strokes"man, n.; pl. Strokesman (. (Rowing)

Defn: The man who rows the aftermost oar, and whose stroke is to be
followed by the rest. Totten.

STROKING
Strok"ing, n.

1. The act of rubbing gently with the hand, or of smoothing; a
stroke.
I doubt not with one gentle stroking to wipe away ten thousand tears.
Milton.

2. (Needlework)

Defn: The act of laying small gathers in cloth in regular order.

3. pl.

Defn: See Stripping, 2. Smollett.

STROLL
Stroll, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Strolled; p. pr. & vb. n. Strolling.]
Etym: [Cf. Dan. stryge to stroll, Sw. stryka to stroke, to ramble,
dial. Sw. strykel one who strolls about, Icel. strj to stroke, D.
struikelen to stumble, G. straucheln. Cf. Struggle.]

Defn: To wander on foot; to ramble idly or leisurely; to rove.
These mothers stroll to beg sustenance for their helpless infants.
Swift.

Syn.
 -- To rove; roam; range; stray.

STROLL
Stroll, n.

Defn: A wandering on foot; an idle and leisurely walk; a ramble.

STROLLER
Stroll"er, n.

Defn: One who strolls; a vagrant.

STROMA
Stro"ma, n.; pl. Stromata. Etym: [L., a bed covering, Gr.

1. (Anat.)
(a) The connective tissue or supporting framework of an organ; as,
the stroma of the kidney.
(b) The spongy, colorless framework of a red blood corpuscle or other
cell.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A layer or mass of cellular tissue, especially that part of the
thallus of certain fungi which incloses the perithecia.

STROMATIC
Stro*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. miscellaneous writings, fr.

Defn: Miscellaneous; composed of different kinds.

STROMATOLOGY
Stro`ma*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Geol.)

Defn: The history of the formation of stratified rocks.

STROMB
Stromb, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any marine univalve mollusk of the genus Strombus and allied
genera. See Conch, and Strombus.

STROMBITE
Strom"bite, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: A fossil shell of the genus Strombus.

STROMBOID
Strom"boid, a. Etym: [Strombus + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or like, Strombus.

STROMBULIFORM
Strom*bu"li*form, a. Etym: [NL. strombulus, dim. of strombus + -form.
See Strombus.]

1. (Geol.)

Defn: Formed or shaped like a top.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Coiled into the shape of a screw or a helix.

STROMBUS
Strom"bus, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of marine gastropods in which the shell has the outer
lip dilated into a broad wing. It includes many large and handsome
species commonly called conch shells, or conchs. See Conch.

STROMEYERITE
Stro"mey`er*ite, n. Etym: [So named from the German chemist Friedrich
Stromeyer.] (Min.)

Defn: A steel-gray mineral of metallic luster. It is a sulphide of
silver and copper.

STROND
Strond, n.

Defn: Strand; beach. [Obs.] Shak.

STRONG
Strong, a. [Compar. Stronger; superl. Strongest.] Etym: [AS. strang,
strong; akin to D. & G. streng strict, rigorous, OHG. strengi strong,
brave, harsh, Icel. strangr strong, severe, Dan. streng, Sw. strang
strict, severe. Cf. Strength, Stretch, String.]

1. Having active physical power, or great physical power to act;
having a power of exerting great bodily force; vigorous.
That our oxen may be strong to labor. Ps. cxliv. 14.
Orses the strong to greater strength must yield. Dryden.

2. Having passive physical power; having ability to bear or endure;
firm; hale; sound; robust; as, a strong constitution; strong health.

3. Solid; tough; not easily broken or injured; able to withstand
violence; able to sustain attacks; not easily subdued or taken; as, a
strong beam; a strong rock; a strong fortress or town.

4. Having great military or naval force; powerful; as, a strong army
or fleet; a nation strong at sea.

5. Having great wealth, means, or resources; as, a strong house, or
company of merchants.

6. Reaching a certain degree or limit in respect to strength or
numbers; as, an army ten thousand strong.

7. Moving with rapidity or force; violent; forcible; impetuous; as, a
strong current of water or wind; the wind was strong from the
northeast; a strong tide.

8. Adapted to make a deep or effectual impression on the mind or
imagination; striking or superior of the kind; powerful; forcible;
cogent; as, a strong argument; strong reasons; strong evidence; a
strong example; strong language.

9. Ardent; eager; zealous; earnestly engaged; as, a strong partisan;
a strong Whig or Tory.
Her mother, ever strong against that match. Shak.

10. Having virtues of great efficacy; or, having a particular quality
in a great degree; as, a strong powder or tincture; a strong
decoction; strong tea or coffee.

11. Full of spirit; containing a large proportion of alcohol;
intoxicating; as, strong liquors.

12. Affecting any sense powerfully; as, strong light, colors, etc.; a
strong flavor of onions; a strong scent.

13. Solid; nourishing; as, strong meat. Heb. v. 12.

14. Well established; firm; not easily overthrown or altered; as, a
strong custom; a strong belief.

15. Violent; vehement; earnest; ardent.
He had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and
tears. Heb. v. 7.

16. Having great force, vigor, power, or the like, as the mind,
intellect, or any faculty; as, a man of a strong mind, memory,
judgment, or imagination.
I was stronger in prophecy than in criticism. Dryden.

17. Vigorous; effective; forcible; powerful.
Like her sweet voice is thy harmonious song, As high, as sweet, as
easy, and as strong. E. Smith.

18. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: Tending to higher prices; rising; as, a strong market.

19. (Gram.)
(a) Pertaining to, or designating, a verb which forms its preterit
(imperfect) by a variation in the root vowel, and the past participle
(usually) by the addition of -en (with or without a change of the
root vowel); as in the verbs strive, strove, striven; break, broke,
broken; drink, drank, drunk. Opposed to weak, or regular. See Weak.
(b) Applied to forms in Anglo-Saxon, etc., which retain the old
declensional endings. In the Teutonic languages the vowel stems have
held the original endings most firmly, and are called strong; the
stems in -n are called weak other constant stems conform, or are
irregular. F. A. March. Strong conjugation (Gram.), the conjugation
of a strong verb; -- called also old, or irregular, conjugation, and
distinguished from the weak, or regular, conjugation.

Note: Strong is often used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, strong-backed, strong-based, strong-bodied, strong-
colored, strong-fisted, strong-handed, strong-ribbed, strong-
smelling, strong-voiced, etc.

Syn.
 -- Vigorous; powerful; stout; solid; firm; hardy; muscular;
forcible; cogent; valid. See Robust.

STRONGHAND
Strong"hand`, n.

Defn: Violence; force; power.
It was their meaning to take what they needed by stronghand. Sir W.
Raleigh.

STRONGHOLD
Strong"hold`, n.

Defn: A fastness; a fort or fortress; fortfield place; a place of
security.

STRONGISH
Strong"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat strong.

STRONGLY
Strong"ly, adv.

Defn: In a strong manner; so as to be strong in action or in
resistance; with strength; with great force; forcibly; powerfully;
firmly; vehemently; as, a town strongly fortified; he objected
strongly.

STRONG-MINDED
Strong"-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Having a vigorous mind; esp., having or affecting masculine
qualities of mind; -- said of women.
 -- Strong"-mind`ed*ness, n.

STRONG-WATER
Strong"-wa`ter, n.

1. An acid. [Obs.]

2. Distilled or ardent spirits; intoxicating liquor.

STRONGYLID
Stron"gy*lid, a. & n. (Zool.)

Defn: Strongyloid.

STRONGYLOID
Stron"gy*loid, a. Etym: [NL. Strongylus the genus (from Gr. -oid.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, Strongylus, a genus of parasitic
nematode worms of which many species infest domestic animals. Some of
the species, especially those living in the kidneys, lungs, and
bronchial tubes, are often very injurious.
 -- n.

Defn: A strongyloid worm.

STRONTIA
Stron"ti*a, n. Etym: [NL. strontia, fr. Strontian, in Argyleshire,
Scotland, where strontianite was first found.] (Chem.)

Defn: An earth of a white color resembling lime in appearance, and
baryta in many of its properties. It is an oxide of the metal
strontium.

STRONTIAN
Stron"ti*an, n. (Min.)

Defn: Strontia.

STRONTIANITE
Stron"ti*an*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: Strontium carbonate, a mineral of a white, greenish, or
yellowish color, usually occurring in fibrous massive forms, but
sometimes in prismatic crystals.

STRONTIC
Stron"tic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to strontium; containing, or designating the
compounds of, strontium.

STRONTITIC
Stron*tit"ic, a.

Defn: Strontic.

STRONTIUM
Stron"ti*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Strontia.] (Chem.)

Defn: A metallic element of the calcium group, always naturally
occurring combined, as in the minerals strontianite, celestite, etc.
It is isolated as a yellowish metal, somewhat malleable but harder
than calcium. It is chiefly employed (as in the nitrate) to color
pyrotechnic flames red. Symbol Sr. Atomic weight 87.3. A radioactive
isotope of strontium produced by certain nuclear reactions, and
constituting one of the prominent harmful components of radioactive
fallout from nuclear explosions; also called radiostrontium. It has a
half-life of 28 years.

STROOK
Strook, obs.

Defn: imp. of Strike. Dryden.

STROOK
Strook, n.

Defn: A stroke. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STROOT
Stroot, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Strut, v. i.]

Defn: To swell out; to strut. [Obs.] Chapman.

STROP
Strop, n. Etym: [See Strap.]

Defn: A strap; specifically, same as Strap, 3.

STROP
Strop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stropped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stropping.]

Defn: To draw over, or rub upon, a strop with a view to sharpen; as,
to strop a razor.

STROP
Strop, n. Etym: [Cf. F. estrope, etrope, fr. L. struppus. See Strop a
strap.] (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of rope spliced into a circular wreath, and put round a
block for hanging it.

STROPHANTHUS
Stro*phan"thus, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical apocynaceous shrubs having singularly
twisted flowers. One species (Strophanthus hispidus) is used
medicinally as a cardiac sedative and stimulant.

STROPHE
Stro"phe, n.; pl. Strophes. Etym: [NL., from Gr. strap.]

Defn: In Greek choruses and dances, the movement of the chorus while
turning from the right to the left of the orchestra; hence, the
strain, or part of the choral ode, sung during this movement. Also
sometimes used of a stanza of modern verse. See the Note under
Antistrophe.

STROPHIC
Stroph"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, strophes.

STROPHIOLATE; STROPHIOLATED
Stro"phi*o*late, Stro"phi*o*la`ted, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Furnished with a strophiole, or caruncle, or that which
resembles it. Gray.

STROPHIOLE
Stro"phi*ole, n. Etym: [L. strophiolum a little chaplet, dim. of
strophium a band, Gr. strophiole.] (Bot.)

Defn: A crestlike excrescence about the hilum of certain seeds; a
caruncle.

STROPHULUS
Stroph"u*lus, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: See Red-gum, 1.

STROUD
Stroud, n.

Defn: A kind of coarse blanket or garment used by the North American
Indians.

STROUDING
Stroud"ing, n.

Defn: Material for strouds; a kind of coarse cloth used in trade with
the North American Indians.

STROUT
Strout, v. i. Etym: [See Strut.]

Defn: To swell; to puff out; to project. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STROUT
Strout, v. t.

Defn: To cause to project or swell out; to enlarge affectedly; to
strut. [Obs.] Bacon.

STROVE
Strove,

Defn: imp. of Strive.

STROW
Strow, v. t. [imp. Strowed; p. p. Strown or Strowed.]

Defn: Same as Strew.
Thick as autumnal leaves that strow the brooks In Vallombrosa.
Milton.
A manner turbid . . . and strown with blemished. M. Arnold.

STROWL
Strowl, v. i.

Defn: To stroll. [Obs.]

STROWN
Strown,

Defn: p. p. of Strow.

STROY
Stroy, v. i.

Defn: To destroy. [Obs.] Tusser.

STRUCK
Struck,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Strike. Struck jury (Law), a special jury,
composed of persons having special knowledge or qualifications,
selected by striking from the panel of jurors a certain number for
each party, leaving the number required by law to try the cause.

STRUCKEN
Struck"en, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Strike. Shak.

STRUCTURAL
Struc"tur*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to structure; affecting structure; as, a
structural error.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to organit structure; as, a structural element
or cell; the structural peculiarities of an animal or a plant.
Structural formula. (Chem.) See Rational formula, under Formula.
empirical formula.

STRUCTURAL SHAPE
Struc"tur*al shape. (Engin. & Arch.)

Defn: The shape of a member especially adapted to structural
purposes, esp. in giving the greatest strength with the least
material. Hence, Colloq.,

Defn: any steel or iron member of such shape, as channel irons, I
beams, T beams, etc., or, sometimes, a column, girder, etc., built up
with such members.

STRUCTURAL STEEL
Structural steel.
 (a) Rolled steel in structural shapes.
 (b)  A kind of strong mild steel, suitable for structural shapes.

STRUCTURE
Struc"ture, n. Etym: [L. structura, from struere, structum, to
arrange, build, construct; perhaps akin to E. strew: cf. F.
structure. Cf. Construe, Destroy, Instrument, Obstruct.]

1. The act of building; the practice of erecting buildings;
construction. [R.]
His son builds on, and never is content Till the last farthing is in
structure spent. J. Dryden, Jr.

2. Manner of building; form; make; construction.
Want of insight into the structure and constitution of the
terraqueous globe. Woodward.

3. Arrangement of parts, of organs, or of constituent particles, in a
substance or body; as, the structure of a rock or a mineral; the
structure of a sentence.
It [basalt] has often a prismatic structure. Dana.

4. (Biol.)

Defn: Manner of organization; the arrangement of the different
tissues or parts of animal and vegetable organisms; as, organic
structure, or the structure of animals and plants; cellular
structure.

5. That which is built; a building; esp., a building of some size or
magnificence; an edifice.
There stands a structure of majestic frame. Pope.
Columnar structure. See under Columnar.

STRUCTURED
Struc"tured, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Having a definite organic structure; showing differentiation of
parts.
The passage from a structureless state to a structured state is
itself a vital process. H. Spencer.

STRUCTURELESS
Struc"ture*less, a.

Defn: Without a definite structure, or arrangement of parts; without
organization; devoid of cells; homogeneous; as, a structureless
membrane.

STRUCTURIST
Struc"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One who forms structures; a builder; a constructor. [R.]

STRUDE
Strude, n.

Defn: A stock of breeding mares. [Written also strode.] [Obs.]
Bailey.

STRUGGLE
Strug"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Struggled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Struggling.] Etym: [OE. strogelen; cf. Icel. strj to stroke, to beat,
to flog, Sw. stryka to stroke, to strike, Dan. stryge, G. straucheln
to stumble. Cf. Stroll.]

1. To strive, or to make efforts, with a twisting, or with
contortions of the body.

2. To use great efforts; to labor hard; to strive; to contend
forcibly; as, to struggle to save one's life; to struggle with the
waves; to struggle with adversity.
The brave men, living and dead, who struggled here, have consecrated
it [Gettysburg] far above our power to add or detract. Lincoln.

3. To labor in pain or anguish; to be in agony; to labor in any kind
of difficulty or distress.
'T is wisdom to beware, And better shun the bait than struggle in the
snare. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To strive; contend; labor; endeavor.

STRUGGLE
Strug"gle, n.

1. A violent effort or efforts with contortions of the body; agony;
distress.

2. Great labor; forcible effort to obtain an object, or to avert an
evil. Macaulay.

3. Contest; contention; strife.
An honest might look upon the struggle with indifference. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Endeavor; effort; contest; labor; difficulty.

STRUGGLER
Strug"gler, n.

Defn: One who struggles.

STRULL
Strull, n.

Defn: A bar so placed as to resist weight.

STRUM
Strum, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Strummed; p. pr. & vb. n. Strumming.]
Etym: [Probably of imitative origin. Cf. Thrum.]

Defn: To play on an instrument of music, or as on an instrument, in
an unskillful or noisy way; to thrum; as, to strum a piano.

STRUMA
Stru"ma, n. Etym: [L., a scrofulous tumor.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Scrofula.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A cushionlike swelling on any organ; especially, that at the
base of the capsule in many mosses.

STRUMATIC
Stru*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Scrofulous; strumous.

STRUMOSE
Stru*mose", a. Etym: [L. strumosus: cf. F. strumeux.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Strumous.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having a struma.

STRUMOUS
Stru"mous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Scrofulous; having struma.

STRUMOUSNESS
Stru"mous*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being strumous.

STRUMPET
Strum"pet, n. Etym: [OE. strumpet, strompet; cf. OF. stupe
debauchery, F. stupe, L. stuprare, stupratum, to debauch, stuprum
debauchery, Gael. & Ir. striopach a prostitute.]

Defn: A prostitute; a harlot. Shak.

STRUMPET
Strum"pet, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a strumpet; characteristic of a strumpet.
Out on thy more than strumpet impudence. B. Jonson.

STRUMPET
Strum"pet, v. t.

1. To debauch. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To dishonor with the reputation of being a strumpet; hence, to
belie; to slander.
With his untrue reports, strumpet your fame. Massinger.

STRUMSTRUM
Strum"strum, n.

Defn: A rude musical instrument somewhat like a cittern. [R.]
Dampier.

STRUNG
Strung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of String.

STRUNT
Strunt, n.

Defn: Spirituous liquor. [Scot.] Burns.

STRUNTIAN
Strun"tian, n.

Defn: A kind of worsted braid, about an inch broad. [Scot.] Jamieson.

STRUSE
Struse, n. Etym: [Russ. strug'.] (Naut.)

Defn: A Russian river craft used for transporting freight.

STRUT
Strut, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Strutted; p. pr. & vb. n. Strutting.]
Etym: [OE. struten, strouten, to swell; akin to G. strozen to be
swelled, to be puffed up, to strut, Dan. strutte.]

1. To swell; to bulge out. [R.]
The bellying canvas strutted with the gale. Dryden.

2. To walk with a lofty, proud gait, and erect head; to walk with
affected dignity.
Does he not hold up his head, . . . and strut in his gait Shak.

STRUT
Strut, n. Etym: [For senses 2 & 3 cf. LG. strutt rigid.]

1. The act of strutting; a pompous step or walk.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: In general, any piece of a frame which resists thrust or
pressure in the direction of its own length. See Brace, and Illust.
of Frame, and Roof.

3. (Engin.)

Defn: Any part of a machine or structure, of which the principal
function is to hold things apart; a brace subjected to compressive
stress; -- the opposite of stay, and tie.

STRUT
Strut, v. t.

Defn: To hold apart. Cf. Strut, n., 3.

STRUT
Strut, a.

Defn: Protuberant. [Obs.] Holland.

STRUTHIAN
Stru"thi*an, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Struthious.

STRUTHIO
Stru"thi*o, n.; pl. Struthiones. Etym: [L., an ostrich, fr. Gr.
(Zool.)

Defn: A genus of birds including the African ostriches.

STRUTHIOIDEA
Stru`thi*oi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Struthio, and -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Struthiones.

STRUTHIONES
Stru`thi*o"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Struthio.] (Zool.)
(a) A division, or order, of birds, including only the African
ostriches.
(b) In a wider sense, an extensive group of birds including the
ostriches, cassowaries, emus, moas, and allied birds incapable of
flight. In this sense it is equivalent to Ratit?, or Drom?ognath?.

STRUTHIONINE
Stru`thi*o"nine, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Struthious.

STRUTHIOUS
Stru"thi*ous, a. Etym: [L. struthius, strutheus.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Struthiones, or Ostrich tribe.

STRUTTER
Strut"ter, n.

Defn: One who struts.

STRUTTING
Strut"ting, a. & n.

Defn: from Strut, v.
 -- Strut"ting*ly, adv.

STRUVITE
Struv"ite, n. Etym: [After the Russian minister Von Struve.] (Min.)

Defn: A crystalline mineral found in guano. It is a hydrous phosphate
of magnesia and ammonia.

STRYCHNIA
Strych"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Strychnine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Strychnine.

STRYCHNIC
Strych"nic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to strychnine; produced by strychnine; as,
strychnic compounds; strychnic poisoning; specifically (Chem.),

Defn: used to designate an acid, called also igasuric acid.

STRYCHNINE
Strych"nine, n. Etym: [L. strychnos a kind of nightshade, Gr.
strychnine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A very poisonous alkaloid resembling brucine, obtained from
various species of plants, especially from species of Loganiace?, as
from the seeds of the St. Ignatius bean (Strychnos Ignatia) and from
nux vomica. It is obtained as a white crystalline substance, having a
very bitter acrid taste, and is employed in medicine (chiefly in the
form of the sulphate) as a powerful neurotic stimulant. Called also
strychnia, and formerly strychnina.

STRYCHNOS
Strych"nos, n. Etym: [L., a kind of nightshade, Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical trees and shrubs of the order Loganiace?.
See Nux vomica.

STRYPHNIC
Stryph"nic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a complex nitrogenous acid,
obtained by the action of acetic acid and potassium nitrite on uric
acid, as a yellow crystalline substance, with a bitter, astringent
taste.

STUB
Stub, n. Etym: [OE. stubbe, AS. stub, styb; akin to D. stobbe, LG.
stubbe, Dan. stub, Sw. stubbe, Icel. stubbr, stubbi; cf. Gr.

1. The stump of a tree; that part of a tree or plant which remains
fixed in the earth when the stem is cut down; -- applied especially
to the stump of a small tree, or shrub.
Stubs sharp and hideous to behold. Chaucer.
And prickly stubs instead of trees are found. Dryden.

2. A log; a block; a blockhead. [Obs.] Milton.

3. The short blunt part of anything after larger part has been broken
off or used up; hence, anything short and thick; as, the stub of a
pencil, candle, or cigar.

4. A part of a leaf in a check book, after a check is torn out, on
which the number, amount, and destination of the check are usually
recorded.

5. A pen with a short, blunt nib.

6. A stub nail; an old horseshoe nail; also, stub iron. Stub end
(Mach.), the enlarged end of a connecting rod, to which the strap is
fastened.
 -- Stub iron, iron made from stub nails, or old horseshoe nails, --
used in making gun barrels.
 -- Stub mortise (Carp.), a mortise passing only partly through the
timber in which it is formed.
 -- Stub nail, an old horseshoe nail; a nail broken off; also, a
short, thick nail.
 -- Stub short, or Stub shot (Lumber Manuf.), the part of the end of
a sawn log or plank which is beyond the place where the saw kerf
ends, and which retains the plank in connection with the log, until
it is split off.
 -- Stub twist, material for a gun barrel, made of a spirally welded
ribbon of steel and stub iron combined.

STUB
Stub, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stubbing.]

1. To grub up by the roots; to extirpate; as, to stub up edible
roots.
What stubbing, plowing, digging, and harrowing is to a piece of land.
Berkley.

2. To remove stubs from; as, to stub land.

3. To strike as the toes, against a stub, stone, or other fixed
object. [U. S.]

STUBBED
Stub"bed, a.

1. Reduced to a stub; short and thick, like something truncated;
blunt; obtuse.

2. Abounding in stubs; stubby.
A bit of stubbed ground, once a wood. R. Browning.

3. Not nice or delicate; hardy; rugged. "Stubbed, vulgar
constitutions." Berkley.

STUBBEDNESS
Stub"bed*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being stubbed.

STUBBINESS
Stub"bi*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being stubby.

STUBBLE
Stub"ble, n. Etym: [OE. stobil, stoble, OF. estouble, estuble, F.
etuele, LL. stupla, stupula, L. stipula stubble, stalk; cf. D. & G.
stopped, OHG. stupfila. Cf. Stipule.]

Defn: The stumps of wheat, rye, barley, oats, or buckwheat, left in
the ground; the part of the stalk left by the scythe or sickle.
"After the first crop is off, they plow in the wheast stubble."
Mortimer. Stubble goose (Zool.), the graylag goose. [Prov. Eng.]
Chaucer.
 -- Stubble rake, a rake with long teeth for gleaning in stubble.

STUBBLED
Stub"bled, a.

1. Covered with stubble.
A crow was strutting o'er the stubbled plain. Gay.

2. Stubbed; as, stubbled legs. [Obs.] Skelton.

STUBBLY
Stub"bly, a.

Defn: Covered with stubble; stubbled.

STUBBORN
Stub"born, a. Etym: [OE. stoburn, stiborn; probably fr. AS. styb a
stub. See Stub.]

Defn: Firm as a stub or stump; stiff; unbending; unyielding;
persistent; hence, unreasonably obstinate in will or opinion; not
yielding to reason or persuasion; refractory; harsh; -- said of
persons and things; as, stubborn wills; stubborn ore; a stubborn oak;
as stubborn as a mule. "Bow, stubborn knees." Shak. "Stubborn
attention and more than common application." Locke. "Stubborn
Stoics." Swift.
And I was young and full of ragerie [wantonness] Stubborn and strong,
and jolly as a pie. Chaucer.
These heretics be so stiff and stubborn. Sir T. More.
Your stubborn usage of the pope. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Obstinate; inflexible; obdurate; headstrong; stiff; hardy; firm;
refractory; intractable; rugged; contumacious; heady.
 -- Stubborn, Obstinate. Obstinate is used of either active or
passive persistence in one's views or conduct, in spite of the wishes
of others. Stubborn describes an extreme degree of passive obstinacy.
 -- Stub"born*ly, adv.
 -- Stub"born*ness, n.

STUBBY
Stub"by, a.

1. Abounding with stubs.

2. Short and thick; short and strong, as bristles.

STUCCO
Stuc"co, n.; pl. Stuccoes, Stuccos. Etym: [It., fr. OHG. stucchi a
crust, piece, G. stuck piece; akin to AS. stycce. See Stock.]

1. Plaster of any kind used as a coating for walls, especially, a
fine plaster, composed of lime or gypsum with sand and pounded
marble, used for internal decorations and fine work.

2. Work made of stucco; stuccowork.

STUCCO
Stuc"co, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stuccoed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stuccoing.]

Defn: To overlay or decorate with stucco, or fine plaster.

STUCCOER
Stuc"co*er, n.

Defn: One who stuccoes.

STUCCOWORK
Stuc"co*work`, n.

Defn: Work done in stucco.

STUCK
Stuck,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Stick.

STUCK
Stuck, n. Etym: [Cf. 1st Stoccado.]

Defn: A thrust. [Obs.] Shak.

STUCKLE
Stuc"kle, n. Etym: [From Stook.]

Defn: A number of sheaves set together in the field; a stook.

STUCK-UP
Stuck"-up`, a.

Defn: Self-important and supercilious, [Colloq.]
The airs of small, stuck-up, men. A. K. H. Boyd.

STUD
Stud, n. Etym: [OE. stod, stood, AS. stod; akin to OHG. stuota, G.
stute a mare, Icel. sto stud, Lith. stodas a herd, Russ. stado, and
to E. stand. The sense is properly, a stand, an establishment. *163.
See Stand, and cf. Steed.]

Defn: A collection of breeding horses and mares, or the place where
they are kept; also, a number of horses kept for a racing, riding,
etc.
In the studs of Ireland, where care is taken, we see horses bred of
excellent shape, vigor, and size. Sir W. Temple.
He had the finest stud in England, and his delight was to win plates
from Tories. Macaulay.

STUD
Stud, n. Etym: [AS. studu a post; akin to Sw. stod a prop, Icel. sto
a post, sty to prop, and probably ultimately to E. stand; cf. D. stut
a prop, G. stutze. See Stand.]

1. A stem; a trunk. [Obs.]
Seest not this same hawthorn stud Spenser.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An upright scanting, esp. one of the small uprights in the
framing for lath and plaster partitions, and furring, and upon which
the laths are nailed.

3. A kind of nail with a large head, used chiefly for ornament; an
ornamental knob; a boss.
A belt of straw and ivy buds, With coral clasps and amber studs.
Marlowe.
Crystal and myrrhine cups, embossed with gems And studs of pearl.
Milton.

4. An ornamental button of various forms, worn in a shirt front,
collar, wristband, or the like, not sewed in place, but inserted
through a buttonhole or eyelet, and transferable.

5. (Mach.)
(a) A short rod or pin, fixed in and projecting from something, and
sometimes forming a journal.
(b) A stud bolt.

6. An iron brace across the shorter diameter of the link of a chain
cable. Stud bolt, a bolt with threads on both ends, to be screwed
permanently into a fixed part at one end and receive a nut upon the
other; -- called also standing bolt.

STUD
Stud, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Studded; p. pr. & vb. n. Studding.]

1. To adorn with shining studs, or knobs.
Thy horses shall be trapped, Their harness studded all with gold and
pearl. Shak.

2. To set with detached ornaments or prominent objects; to set
thickly, as with studs.
The sloping sides and summits of our hills, and the extensive plains
that stretch before our view, are studded with substantial, neat, and
commodious dwellings of freemen. Bp. Hobart.

STUDBOOK
Stud"book`, n.

Defn: A genealogical register of a particular breed or stud of
horses, esp. thoroughbreds.

STUDDERY
Stud"der*y, n.

Defn: A stud, or collection of breeding horses and mares; also, a
place for keeping a stud. [Obs.]
King Henry the Eighth erected a noble studdery. Holinshed.

STUDDING
Stud"ding, n.

Defn: Material for studs, or joists; studs, or joists, collectively;
studs.

STUDDING SAIL
Stud"ding sail`. (Naut.)

Defn: A light sail set at the side of a principal or square sail of a
vessel in free winds, to increase her speed. Its head is bent to a
small spar which is called the studding-sail boom. See Illust. of
Sail. Toten.

STUDENT
Stu"dent, n. Etym: [L. studens, -entis, p.pr. of studere to study.
See Study, n.]

1. A person engaged in study; one who is devoted to learning; a
learner; a pupil; a scholar; especially, one who attends a school, or
who seeks knowledge from professional teachers or from books; as, the
students of an academy, a college, or a university; a medical
student; a hard student.
Keep a gamester from the dice, and a good student from his book.
Shak.

2. One who studies or examines in any manner; an attentive and
systematic observer; as, a student of human nature, or of physical
nature.

STUDENTRY
Stu"dent*ry, n.

Defn: A body of students. [R.]

STUDENTSHIP
Stu"dent*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a student.

STUDFISH
Stud"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small American minnows of the
genus Fundulus, as F. catenatus.

STUD-HORSE
Stud"-horse`, n. Etym: [AS. stod-hors.]

Defn: A stallion, esp. one kept for breeding.

STUDIED
Stud"ied, a.

1. Closely examined; read with diligence and attention; made the
subject of study; well considered; as, a studied lesson.

2. Well versed in any branch of learning; qualified by study;
learned; as, a man well studied in geometry.
I shrewdly suspect that he is little studied of a theory of moral
proportions. Burke.

3. Premeditated; planned; designed; as, a studied insult. "Studied
magnificence." Hawthorne.

4. Intent; inclined. [Obs.] Shak.

STUDIEDLY
Stud"ied*ly, adv.

Defn: In a studied manner.

STUDIER
Stud"i*er, n.

Defn: A student. [R.] W. Irving.
Lipsius was a great studier of the stoical philosophy. Tillotson.

STUDIO
Stu"di*o, n.; pl. Studios. Etym: [It. studio, properly, study. See
Study.]

Defn: The working room of an artist.

STUDIOUS
Stu"di*ous, a. Etym: [L. studious: cf. F. studieux. See Study.]

1. Given to study; devoted to the acquisition of knowledge from
books; as, a studious scholar.

2. Given to thought, or to the examination of subjects by
contemplation; contemplative. Locke.

3. Earnest in endeavors; aiming sedulously; attentive; observant;
diligent; -- usually followed by an infinitive or by of; as, be
studious to please; studious to find new friends and allies.
You that are so studious Of my affairs, wholly neglect your own.
Massinger.

4. Planned with study; deliberate; studied.
For the frigid villainy of studious lewdness, . . . with apology can
be invented Rambler.

5. Favorable to study; suitable for thought and contemplation; as,
the studious shade. [Poetic]
But let my due feet never fail To walk the studious cloister's pale.
Milton.
-- Stu"di*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Stu"di*ous*ness, n.

STUDY
Stud"y, n.; pl. Studies. Etym: [OE. studie, L. studium, akin to
studere to study; possibly akin to Gr. estudie, estude, F. etude. Cf.
Etude, Student, Studio, Study, v. i.]

1. A setting of the mind or thoughts upon a subject; hence,
application of mind to books, arts, or science, or to any subject,
for the purpose of acquiring knowledge.
Hammond . . . spent thirteen hours of the day in study. Bp. Fell.
Study gives strength to the mind; conversation, grace. Sir W. Temple.

2. Mental occupation; absorbed or thoughtful attention; meditation;
contemplation.
Just men they seemed, and all their study bent To worship God aright,
and know his works. Milton.

3. Any particular branch of learning that is studied; any object of
attentive consideration.
The Holy Scriptures, especially the New Testament, are her daily
study. Law.
The proper study of mankind is man. Pope.

4. A building or apartment devoted to study or to literary work. "His
cheery little study." Hawthorne.

5. (Fine Arts)

Defn: A representation or rendering of any object or scene intended,
not for exhibition as an original work of art, but for the
information, instruction, or assistance of the maker; as, a study of
heads or of hands for a figure picture.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: A piece for special practice. See Etude.

STUDY
Stud"y, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Studied; p. pr. & vb. n. Studying.] Etym:
[OE. studien, OF. estudier, F. etudier. See Study, n.]

1. To fix the mind closely upon a subject; to dwell upon anything in
thought; to muse; to ponder. Chaucer.
I found a moral first, and then studied for a fable. Swift.

2. To apply the mind to books or learning. Shak.

3. To endeavor diligently; to be zealous. 1 Thes. iv. 11.

STUDY
Stud"y, v. t.

1. To apply the mind to; to read and examine for the purpose of
learning and understanding; as, to study law or theology; to study
languages.

2. To consider attentively; to examine closely; as, to study the work
of nature.
Study thyself; what rank or what degree The wise Creator has ordained
for thee. Dryden.

3. To form or arrange by previous thought; to con over, as in
committing to memory; as, to study a speech.

4. To make an object of study; to aim at sedulously; to devote one's
thoughts to; as, to study the welfare of others; to study variety in
composition.
For their heart studieth destruction. Prov. xxiv. 2.

STUFA
Stu"fa, n. Etym: [It. stufa a stove. See Stove.]

Defn: A jet of steam issuing from a fissure in the earth.

STUFF
Stuff, n. Etym: [OF. estoffe, F. etoffe; of uncertain origin, perhaps
of Teutonic origin and akin to E. stop, v.t. Cf. Stuff, v. t.]

1. Material which is to be worked up in any process of manufacture.
For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it,
and too much. Ex. xxxvi. 7.
Ambitions should be made of sterner stuff. Shak.
The workman on his stuff his skill doth show, And yet the stuff gives
not the man his skill. Sir J. Davies.

2. The fundamental material of which anything is made up; elemental
part; essence.
Yet do I hold it very stuff o' the conscience To do no contrived
murder. Shak.

3. Woven material not made into garments; fabric of any kind;
specifically, any one of various fabrics of wool or worsted;
sometimes, worsted fiber.
What stuff wilt have a kirtle of Shak.
It [the arras] was of stuff and silk mixed, though, superior kinds
were of silk exclusively. F. G. Lee.

4. Furniture; goods; domestic vessels or utensils.
He took away locks, and gave away the king's stuff. Hayward.

5. A medicine or mixture; a potion. Shak.

6. Refuse or worthless matter; hence, also, foolish or irrational
language; nonsense; trash.
Anger would indite Such woeful stuff as I or Shadwell write. Dryden.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: A melted mass of turpentine, tallow, etc., with which the
masts, sides, and bottom of a ship are smeared for lubrication. Ham.
Nav. Encyc.

8. Paper stock ground ready for use.

Note: When partly ground, called half stuff. Knight. Clear stuff. See
under Clear.
 -- Small stuff (Naut.), all kinds of small cordage. Ham. Nav. Encyc.
 -- Stuff gown, the distinctive garb of a junior barrister; hence, a
junior barrister himself. See Silk gown, under Silk.stuff and
nonsense. (See def. 6 for stuff) balderdash, twaddle, nonsense,
foolishness.

STUFF
Stuff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stuffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stuffing.] Etym:
[OE. stoffen; cf. OF. estoffer, F. etoffer, to put stuff in, to
stuff, to line, also, OF. estouffer to stifle, F. etouffer; both
perhaps of Teutonic origin, and akin to E. stop. Cf. Stop, v. t.,
Stuff, n.]

1. To fill by crowding something into; to cram with something; to
load to excess; as, to stuff a bedtick.
Sometimes this crook drew hazel bought adown, And stuffed her apron
wide with nuts so brown. Gay.
Lest the gods, for sin, Should with a swelling dropsy stuff thy skin.
Dryden.

2. To thrust or crowd; to press; to pack.
Put roses into a glass with a narrow mouth, stuffing them close
together . . . and they retain smell and color. Bacon.

3. To fill by being pressed or packed into.
With inward arms the dire machine they load, And iron bowels stuff
the dark abode. Dryden.

4. (Cookery)

Defn: To fill with a seasoning composition of bread, meat,
condiments, etc.; as, to stuff a turkey.

5. To obstruct, as any of the organs; to affect with some obstruction
in the organs of sense or respiration.
I'm stuffed, cousin; I can not smell. Shak.

6. To fill the skin of, for the purpose of preserving as a specimen;
-- said of birds or other animals.

7. To form or fashion by packing with the necessary material.
An Eastern king put a judge to death for an iniquitous sentence, and
ordered his hide to be stuffed into a cushion, and placed upon the
tribunal. Swift.

8. To crowd with facts; to cram the mind of; sometimes, to crowd or
fill with false or idle tales or fancies.

9. To put fraudulent votes into (a ballot box). [U. S.]

STUFF
Stuff, v. i.

Defn: To feed gluttonously; to cram.
Taught harmless man to cram and stuff. Swift.

STUFFER
Stuff"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stuffs.

STUFFINESS
Stuff"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being stuffy.

STUFFING
Stuff"ing, n.

1. That which is used for filling anything; as, the stuffing of a
saddle or cushion.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: Any seasoning preparation used to stuff meat; especially, a
composition of bread, condiments, spices, etc.; forcemeat; dressing.

3. A mixture of oil and tallow used in softening and dressing
leather. Stuffing box, a device for rendering a joint impervious
where there is a hole through which a movable cylindrical body, as
the paston rod of a steam engine, or the plunger of a pump, slides
back and forth, or in which a shaft turns. It usually consists of a
box or chamber, made by an enlargement of part of the hole, forming a
space around the rod or shaft for containing packing which is
compressed and made to fill the space closely by means of a sleeve,
called the gland, which fits loosely around the rod, and is pressed
upon the packing by bolts or other means.

STUFFY
Stuff"y, a.

1. Stout; mettlesome; resolute. [Scot.] Jamieson.

2. Angry and obstinate; sulky. [U. S.]

3. Ill-ventilated; close.

STUKE
Stuke, n.

Defn: Stucco. [Obs.]

STULL
Stull, n. Etym: [CF. Stum.]

Defn: A framework of timber covered with boards to support rubbish;
also, a framework of boards to protect miners from falling stones.
[Prov. Eng.]

STULM
Stulm, n. Etym: [Cf. G. stollen a post, a stulm, E. stall, stand.]

Defn: A shaft or gallery to drain a mine. [Local, Eng.] Bailey.

STULP
Stulp, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. stolpi, Dan., Sw., & OD. stolpe.]

Defn: A short, stout post used for any purpose, a to mark a boundary.
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STULTIFICATION
Stul`ti*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of stultifying, or the state of being stultified.

STULTIFIER
Stul"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who stultifies.

STULTIFY
Stul"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stultified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stultifying.] Etym: [L. stultus foolish + -fy.]

1. To make foolish; to make a fool of; as, to stultify one by
imposition; to stultify one's self by silly reasoning or conduct.
Burke.

2. To regard as a fool, or as foolish. [R.]
The modern sciolist stultifies all understanding but his own, and
that which he conceives like his own. Hazlitt.

3. (Law)

Defn: To allege or prove to be of unsound mind, so that the
performance of some act may be avoided.

STULTILOQUENCE
Stul*til"o*quence, n. Etym: [L. stultiloquentia; stultus foolish +
loquentia a talking, fr. loquens, p.pr. of loqui to talk.]

Defn: Silly talk; babbling.

STULTILOQUENT
Stul*til"o*quent, a. Etym: [Cf. L. stultiloquus. See Stultiloquence.]

Defn: Given to, or characterized by, silly talk; babbling.
 -- Stul*til"o*quent*ly, adv.

STULTILOQUY
Stul*til"o*quy, n. Etym: [L. stultiloquium.]

Defn: Foolish talk; silly discource; babbling. Jer. Taylor.

STULTY
Stul"ty, a. Etym: [L. stultus foolish.]

Defn: Foolish; silly. [Obs.] Testament of Love.

STUM
Stum, n. Etym: [D. stom must, new wort, properly, dumb; cf. F. vin
muet stum. Cf. Stammer, Stoom.]

1. Unfermented grape juice or wine, often used to raise fermentation
in dead or vapid wines; must.
Let our wines, without mixture of stum, be all fine. B. Jonson.
And with thy stum ferment their fainting cause. Dryden.

2. Wine revived by new fermentation, reulting from the admixture of
must. Hudibras.

STUM
Stum, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stummed; p. pr. & vb. n. Stumming.]

Defn: To renew, as wine, by mixing must with it and raising a new
fermentation.
We stum our wines to renew their spirits. Floyer.

STUMBLE
Stum"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Stumbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Stumbling.]
Etym: [OE. stumblen, stomblen; freq. of a word akin to E. stammer.
See Stammer.]

1. To trip in walking or in moving in any way with the legs; to
strike the foot so as to fall, or to endanger a fall; to stagger
because of a false step.
There stumble steeds strong and down go all. Chaucer.
The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know at what they stumble.
Prov. iv. 19.

2. To walk in an unsteady or clumsy manner.
He stumbled up the dark avenue. Sir W. Scott.

3. To fall into a crime or an error; to err.
He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none
occasion og stumbling in him. 1 John ii. 10.

4. To strike or happen (upon a person or thing) without design; to
fall or light by chance; -- with on, upon, or against.
Ovid stumbled, by some inadvertency, upon Livia in a bath. Dryden.
Forth as she waddled in the brake, A gray goose stumbled on a snake.
C. Smart.

STUMBLE
Stum"ble, v. t.

1. To cause to stumble or trip.

2. Fig.: To mislead; to confound; to perplex; to cause to err or to
fall.
False and dazzling fires to stumble men. Milton.
One thing more stumbles me in the very foundation of this hypothesis.
Locke.

STUMBLE
Stum"ble, n.

1. A trip in walking or running.

2. A blunder; a failure; a fall from rectitude.
One stumble is enough to deface the character of an honorable life.
L'Estrange.

STUMBLER
Stum"bler, n.

Defn: One who stumbles.

STUMBLING-BLOCK
Stum"bling-block`, n.

Defn: Any cause of stumbling, perplexity, or error.
We preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumbling-block, and unto
the Greeks foolishness. 1 Cor. i. 23.

STUMBLINGLY
Stum"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a stumbling manner.

STUMBLING-STONE
Stum"bling-stone`, n.

Defn: A stumbling-block.
This stumbling-stone we hope to take away. T. Burnet.

STUMP
Stump, n. Etym: [OE. stumpe, stompe; akin to D. stomp, G. stumpf,
Icel. stumpr, Dan. & Sw. stump, and perhaps also to E. stamp.]

1. The part of a tree or plant remaining in the earth after the stem
or trunk is cut off; the stub.

2. The part of a limb or other body remaining after a part is
amputated or destroyed; a fixed or rooted remnant; a stub; as, the
stump of a leg, a finger, a tooth, or a broom.

3. pl.

Defn: The legs; as, to stir one's stumps. [Slang]

4. (Cricket)

Defn: One of the three pointed rods stuck in the ground to form a
wicket and support the bails.

5. A short, thick roll of leather or paper, cut to a point, or any
similar implement, used to rub down the lines of a crayon or pencil
drawing, in shading it, or for shading drawings by producing tints
and gradations from crayon, etc., in powder.

6. A pin in a tumbler lock which forms an obstruction to throwing the
bolt, except when the gates of the tumblers are properly arranged, as
by the key; a fence; also, a pin or projection in a lock to form a
guide for a movable piece. Leg stump (Cricket), the stump nearest to
the batsman.
 -- Off stump (Cricket), the stump farthest from the batsman.
 -- Stump tracery (Arch.), a term used to describe late German Gothic
tracery, in which the molded bar seems to pass through itself in its
convolutions, and is then cut off short, so that a section of the
molding is seen at the end of each similar stump.
 -- To go on the stump, or To take the stump, to engage in making
public addresses for electioneering purposes; -- a phrase derived
from the practice of using a stump for a speaker's platform in newly-
settled districts. Hence also the phrases stump orator, stump
speaker, stump speech, stump oratory, etc. [Colloq. U.S.]

STUMP
Stump, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stumped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stumping.]

1. To cut off a part of; to reduce to a stump; to lop.
Around the stumped top soft moss did grow. Dr. H. More.

2. To strike, as the toes, against a stone or something fixed; to
stub. [Colloq.]

3. To challenge; also, to nonplus. [Colloq.]

4. To travel over, delivering speeches for electioneering purposes;
as, to stump a State, or a district. See To go on the stump, under
Stump, n. [Colloq. U.S.]

5. (Cricket)
(a) To put (a batsman) out of play by knocking off the bail, or
knocking down the stumps of the wicket he is defending while he is
off his allotted ground; -- sometimes with out. T. Hughes.
(b) To bowl down the stumps of, as, of a wicket.
A herd of boys with clamor bowled, And stumped the wicket. Tennyson.
To stump it. (a) To go afoot; hence, to run away; to escape. [Slang]
Ld. Lytton. (b) To make electioneering speeches. [Colloq. U.S.]

STUMP
Stump, v. i.

Defn: To walk clumsily, as if on stumps. To stump up, to pay cash.
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

STUMPAGE
Stump"age, n.

1. Timber in standing trees, -- often sold without the land at a
fixed price per tree or per stump, the stumps being counted when the
land is cleared. [Local, U.S.]
Only trees above a certain size are allowed to be cut by loggers
buying stumpage from the owners of land. C. S. Sargent.

2. A tax on the amount of timber cut, regulated by the price of
lumber. [Local, U.S.] The Nation.

STUMPER
Stump"er, n.

1. One who stumps.

2. A boastful person. [Slang]

3. A puzzling or incredible story. [Slang, U.S.]

STUMPINESS
Stump"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being stumpy.

STUMP-TAILED
Stump"-tailed`, a.

Defn: Having a short, thick tail. Stump-tailed lizard (Zool.), a
singular Australian scincoid lizard (Trachydosaurus rugosus) having a
short, thick tail resembling its head in form; -- called also
sleeping lizard.

STUMPY
Stump"y, a.

1. Full of stumps; hard; strong.

2. Short and thick; stubby. [Colloq.] "A stumpy little man." J. C.
Harris.

STUN
Stun, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stunned; p. pr. & vb. n. Stunning.] Etym:
[OE. stonien, stownien; either fr. AS. stunian to resound (cf. D.
stenen to groan, G. stohnen, Icel. stynja, Gr. stan to thunder, and
E. thunder), or from the same source as E. astonish. *168.]

1. To make senseless or dizzy by violence; to render senseless by a
blow, as on the head.
One hung a poleax at his saddlebow, And one a heavy mace to stun the
foe. Dryden.

2. To dull or deaden the sensibility of; to overcome; especially, to
overpower one's sense of hearing.
And stunned him with the music of the spheres. Pope.

3. To astonish; to overpower; to bewilder.
William was quite stunned at my discourse. De Foe.

STUN
Stun, n.

Defn: The condition of being stunned.

STUNDIST
Stun"dist, n. [Russ. shtundist, prob. fr. G. stunde hour; -- from
their meetings for Bible reading.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a large sect of Russian dissenters founded, about 1860,
in the village of Osnova, near Odessa, by a peasant, Onishchenko, who
had apparently been influenced by a German sect settled near there.
They zealously practice Bible reading and reject priestly dominion
and all external rites of worship. -- Stun"dism (#), n.

STUNG
Stung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Sting.

STUNK
Stunk,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Stink.

STUNNER
Stun"ner, n.

1. One who, or that which, stuns.

2. Something striking or amazing in quality; something of
extraordinary excellence. [Slang] Thackeray.

STUNNING
Stun"ning, a.

1. Overpowering consciousness; overpowering the senses; especially,
overpowering the sense of hearing; confounding with noise.

2. Striking or overpowering with astonishment, especially on account
of excellence; as, stunning poetry. [Slang] C. Kingsley.
 -- Stun"ning*ly, adv. [Slang]

STUNSAIL
Stun"sail, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A contraction of Studding sail.
With every rag set, stunsails, sky scrapers and all. Lowell.

STUNT
Stunt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stunted; p. pr. & vb. n. Stunting.] Etym:
[See Stint.]

Defn: To hinder from growing to the natural size; to prevent the
growth of; to stint, to dwarf; as, to stunt a child; to stunt a
plant.
When, by a cold penury, I blast the abilities of a nation, and stunt
the growth of its active energies, the ill or may do is beyond all
calculation. Burke.

STUNT
Stunt, n.

1. A check in growth; also, that which has been checked in growth; a
stunted animal or thing.

2. Specifically: A whale two years old, which, having been weaned, is
lean, and yields but little blubber.

STUNTED
Stunt"ed, a.

Defn: Dwarfed.
 -- Stunt"ed*ness, n.

STUNTNESS
Stunt"ness, n.

Defn: Stuntedness; brevity. [R.] Earle.

STUPA
Stu"pa (stoo"pa), n. Etym: [Skr. stupa.]

Defn: A mound or monument commemorative of Buddha.

STUPA
Stu"pa (stu"pa), n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: See 1st Stupe.

STUPE
Stupe, n. Etym: [L. stupa, or better stuppa, tow. Cf. Stop, v. t.]
(Med.)

Defn: Cloth or flax dipped in warm water or medicaments and applied
to a hurt or sore.

STUPE
Stupe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stuped; p. pr. & vb. n. Stuping.]

Defn: To foment with a stupe. Wiseman.

STUPE
Stupe, n. Etym: [See Stupid.]

Defn: A stupid person. [Obs.]

STUPEFACIENT
Stu`pe*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. stupefaciens, p.pr. of stupefacere to
stupefy; stupere to be stupefied + facere to make. Cf. Stupefy.]
[Written also stupifacient.]

Defn: Producing stupefaction; stupefactive.
 -- n. (Med.)

Defn: Anything promoting stupefaction; a narcotic.

STUPEFACTION
Stu`pe*fac"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stupefaction. See Stupefacient.]

Defn: The act of stupefying, or the state of being stupefied.
[Written also stupifaction.]
Resistance of the dictates of conscience brings a hardness and
stupefaction upon it. South.

STUPEFACTIVE
Stu`pe*fac"tive, a. & n. Etym: [Cf. F. stupefactif, LL.
stupefactivus.]

Defn: Same as Stupefacient. [Written also stupifactive.]

STUPEFIED
Stu"pe*fied, a.

Defn: Having been made stupid.

STUPEFIEDNESS
Stu"pe*fied`ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being stupid.

STUPEFIER
Stu"pe*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, stupefies; a stupefying agent.

STUPEFY
Stu"pe*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stupefied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stupefying.] Etym: [F. stupefier, fr. L. stupere to be stupefied +
ficare (in comp.) to make, akin to facere. See Stupid, Fact, and cf.
Stupefacient.] [Written also stupify, especially in England.]

1. To make stupid; to make dull; to blunt the faculty of perception
or understanding in; to deprive of sensibility; to make torpid.
The fumes of drink discompose and stupefy the brain. South.

2. To deprive of material mobility. [Obs.]
It is not malleable; but yet is not fluent, but stupefied. Bacon.

STUPENDOUS
Stu*pen"dous, a. Etym: [L. stupendus astonishing, p. future pass. of
stupere to be astonished at. Cf. Stupid.]

Defn: Astonishing; wonderful; amazing; especially, astonishing in
magnitude or elevation; as, a stupendous pile. "A stupendous sum."
Macaulay.
All are but parts of one stupendous whole. Pope.
-- Stu*pen"dous*ly, adv.
 -- Stu*pen"dous*ness, n.

STUPEOUS
Stu"pe*ous, a. Etym: [L. stupa, or better stuppa, tow; cf. L.
stuppeus made of tow. Cf. Stupose.]

Defn: Resembling tow; having long, loose scales, or matted filaments,
like tow; stupose.

STUPID
Stu"pid, a. Etym: [L. stupidus, fr. stupere to be stupefied: cf. F.
stupide.]

1. Very dull; insensible; senseless; wanting in understanding; heavy;
sluggish; in a state of stupor; -- said of persons.
O that men . . . should be so stupid grown . . . As to forsake the
living God! Milton.
With wild surprise, A moment stupid, motionless he stood. Thomson.

2. Resulting from, or evincing, stupidity; formed without skill or
genius; dull; heavy; -- said of things.
Observe what loads of stupid rhymes Oppress us in corrupted times.
Swift.

Syn.
 -- Simple; insensible; sluggish; senseless; doltish; sottish; dull;
heavy; clodpated.
 -- Stu"pid*ly, adv.
 -- Stu"pid*ness, n.

STUPIDITY
Stu*pid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. stupiditas: cf. F. stupidite.]

1. The quality or state of being stupid; extreme dullness of
perception or understanding; insensibility; sluggishness.

2. Stupor; astonishment; stupefaction. [R.]
A stupidity Past admiration strikes me, joined with fear. Chapman.

STUPIFY
Stu"pi*fy, v. t.

Defn: See Stupefy.

STUPOR
Stu"por, n. Etym: [L., from stupere to be struck senseless.]

1. Great diminution or suspension of sensibility; suppression of
sense or feeling; lethargy.

2. Intellectual insensibility; moral stupidity; heedlessness or
inattention to one's interests.

STUPOSE
Stu*pose, a. Etym: [L. stupa, or better stuppa, tow. Cf. Stupeous.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Composed of, or having, tufted or matted filaments like tow;
stupeous.

STUPRATE
Stu"prate, v. t. Etym: [L. stupratus, p.p. of stuprare to ravish, fr.
stuprum defilement.]

Defn: To ravish; to debauch. [R.] Heywood.

STUPRATION
Stu*pra"tion, n.

Defn: Violation of chastity by force; rape. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

STUPRUM
Stu"prum, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Stupration.

STURB
Sturb, v. t.

Defn: To disturb. [Obs.] Chaucer.

STURDILY
Stur"di*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sturdy manner.

STURDINESS
Stur"di*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being sturdy.

STURDY
Stur"dy, a. [Compar. Sturdier; superl. Sturdiest.] Etym: [OE. sturdi
inconsiderable, OF. estourdi stunned, giddy, thoughtless, rash, F.
etourdi, p.p. of OF. estourdir to stun, to render giddy, to amaze, F.
etourdir; of uncertain origin. The sense has probably been influenced
by E. stout.]

1. Foolishly obstinate or resolute; stubborn; unrelenting; unfeeling;
stern.
This sturdy marquis gan his hearte dress To rue upon her wifely
steadfastness. Chaucer.
This must be done, and I would fain see Mortal so sturdy as to
gainsay. Hudibras.
A sturdy, hardened sinner shall advance to the utmost pitch of
impiety with less reluctance than he took the first steps. Atterbury.

2. Resolute, in a good sense; or firm, unyielding quality; as, a man
of sturdy piety or patriotism.

3. Characterized by physical strength or force; strong; lusty;
violent; as, a sturdy lout.
How bowed the woods beneath their sturdy stroke! Gray.

4. Stiff; stout; strong; as, a sturdy oak. Milton.
He was not of any delicate contexture; his limbs rather sturdy than
dainty. Sir H. Wotton.

Syn.
 -- Hardy; stout; strong; firm; robust; stiff.

STURDY
Stur"dy, n. Etym: [OF. estourdi giddiness, stupefaction.] (Vet.)

Defn: A disease in sheep and cattle, marked by great nervousness, or
by dullness and stupor.

STURGEON
Stur"geon, n. Etym: [F. esturgeon, LL. sturio, sturgio, OHG. sturjo,
G. stor; akin to AS. styria, styriga.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large cartilaginous ganoid
fishes belonging to Acipenser and allied genera of the family
Acipenserid?. They run up rivers to spawn, and are common on the
coasts and in the large rivers and lakes of North America, Europe,
and Asia. Caviare is prepared from the roe, and isinglass from the
air bladder.

Note: The common North American species are Acipenser sturio of the
Atlantic coast region, A. transmontanus of the Pacific coast, and A.
rubicundus of the Mississippi River and its tributaries. In Europe,
the common species is Acipenser sturio, and other well-known species
are the sterlet and the huso. The sturgeons are included in the order
Chondrostei. Their body is partially covered by five rows of large,
carinated, bony plates, of which one row runs along the back. The
tail is heterocercal. The toothless and protrusile mouth is beneath
the head, and has four barbels in front. Shovel-nosed sturgeon.
(Zool.) See Shovelnose (d).

STURIONES
Stu`ri*o"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from LL. sturio. See Sturgeon.]
(Zool.)

Defn: An order of fishes including the sturgeons.

STURIONIAN
Stu`ri*o"ni*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the family of fishes of which the sturgeon is the type.

STURK
Sturk, n.

Defn: See Stirk. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STURNOID
Stur"noid, a. Etym: [L. sturnus a starling + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the starlings.

STURT
Sturt, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Start, v. i.]

Defn: To vex; to annoy; to startle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

STURT
Sturt, n.

1. Disturbance; annoyance; care. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] "Sturt
and care." J. Rolland.

2. (Mining)

Defn: A bargain in tribute mining by which the tributor profits.
Raymond.

STURTION
Stur"tion, n.

Defn: A corruption of Nasturtion.

STUT
Stut, v. i.

Defn: To stutter. [Obs.] Skelton.

STUTTER
Stut"ter, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Stuttered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Stuttering.] Etym: [Freq. of stut, OE. stoten; probably of Dutch or
Low German origin; cf. D. & LG. stotteren, G. stottern, D. stooten to
push, to strike; akin to G. stossen, Icel. stauta, Sw. stota, Dan.
stode, Goth. stautan, L. tundere, Skr. tud to thrust. Cf. Contuse,
Obtuse.]

Defn: To hesitate or stumble in uttering words; to speak with
spasmodic repetition or pauses; to stammer.
Trembling, stuttering, calling for his confessor. Macaulay.

STUTTER
Stut"ter, n.

1. The act of stuttering; a stammer. See Stammer, and Stuttering.

2. One who stutters; a stammerer. [Obs.] Bacon.

STUTTERER
Stut"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who stutters; a stammerer.

STUTTERING
Stut"ter*ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who stutters; -- restricted by some
physiologists to defective speech due to inability to form the proper
sounds, the breathing being normal, as distinguished from stammering.

STUTTERING
Stut"ter*ing, a.

Defn: Apt to stutter; hesitating; stammering.
 -- Stut"ter*ing*ly, adv.

STY
Sty, n.; pl. Sties (. [Written also stigh.] Etym: [AS. stigu, fr.
stigan to rise; originally, probably, a place into which animals
climbed or went up. *164. See Sty, v. i., and cf. Steward.]

1. A pen or inclosure for swine.

2. A place of bestial debauchery.
To roll with pleasure in a sensual sty. Milton.

STY
Sty, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Stied; p. pr. & vb. n. Stying.]

Defn: To shut up in, or as in, a sty. Shak.

STY
Sty, v. i. Etym: [OE. stien, sti, AS. stigan to rise; akin to D.
stijgen, OS. & OHG. stigan, G. steigen, Icel. stiga, Sw. stiga, Dan.
stige, Goth. steigan, L. vestigium footstep, Gr. stigh to mount. Cf.
Distich, Stair steps, Stirrup, Sty a boil, a pen for swine, Vestige.]

Defn: To soar; to ascend; to mount. See Stirrup. [Obs.]
With bolder wing shall dare aloft to sty, To the last praises of this
Faery Queene. Spenser.

STY
Sty, n. Etym: [For older styan, styanye, understood as sty on eye,
AS. stigend (sc. eage eye), properly, rising, or swelling (eye), p.p.
of stigan to rise. See Sty, v. i.] (Med.)

Defn: An inflamed swelling or boil on the edge of the eyelid.
[Written also stye.]

STYAN
Sty"an, n.

Defn: See Sty, a boil. [R.] De quincey.

STYCA
Sty"ca, n. Etym: [LL., fr. AS. stic, styc, stycge.]

Defn: An anglo-Saxon copper coin of the lowest value, being worth
half a farthing. S. M. Leake.

STYCERIN
Sty"cer*in, n. Etym: [Styryl + glycerin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A triacid alcohol, related to glycerin, and obtained from
certain styryl derivatives as a yellow, gummy, amorphous substance; -
- called also phenyl glycerin.

STYE
Stye, n.

Defn: See Sty, a boil.

STYGIAL
Styg"i*al, a.

Defn: Stygian. [R.] Skelton.

STYGIAN
Styg"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Stygius, fr. Styx, Stygis, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the river Styx; hence, hellish; infernal.
See Styx.
At that so sudden blaze, the Stygian throng Bent their aspect.
Milton.

STYLAGALMAIC
Sty`la*gal*ma"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: Performing the office of columns; as, Atlantes and Caryatides
are stylagalmaic figures or images. [Written also stylogalmaic.]

STYLAR
Sty"lar, a.

Defn: See Stilar.

STYLASTER
Sty*las"ter, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of delicate, usually pink,
calcareous hydroid corals of the genus Stylaster.

STYLE
Style, n. Etym: [OE. stile, F. style, Of. also stile, L. stilus a
style or writing instrument, manner or writing, mode of expression;
probably for stiglus, meaning, a pricking instrument, and akin to E.
stick. See Stick, v. t., and cf. Stiletto. The spelling with y is due
to a supposed connection with Gr.

1. An instrument used by the ancients in writing on tablets covered
with wax, having one of its ends sharp, and the other blunt, and
somewhat expanded, for the purpose of making erasures by smoothing
the wax.

2. Hence, anything resembling the ancient style in shape or use.
Specifically: --
(a) A pen; an author's pen. Dryden.
(b) A sharp-pointed tool used in engraving; a graver.
(c) A kind of blunt-pointed surgical instrument.
(d) (Zool.) A long, slender, bristlelike process, as the anal styles
of insects. (e) Etym: [Perhaps fr. Gr.

Defn: The pin, or gnomon, of a dial, the shadow of which indicates
the hour. See Gnomon. (f) Etym: [Probably fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The elongated part of a pistil between the ovary and the
stigma. See Illust. of Stamen, and of Pistil.

3. Mode of expressing thought in language, whether oral or written;
especially, such use of language in the expression of thought as
exhibits the spirit and faculty of an artist; choice or arrangement
of words in discourse; rhetorical expression.
High style, as when that men to kinges write. Chaucer.
Style is the dress of thoughts. Chesterfield.
Proper words in proper places make the true definition of style.
Swift.
It is style alone by which posterity will judge of a great work. I.
Disraeli.

4. Mode of presentation, especially in music or any of the fine arts;
a characteristic of peculiar mode of developing in idea or
accomplishing a result.
The ornamental style also possesses its own peculiar merit. Sir J.
Reynolds.

5. Conformity to a recognized standard; manner which is deemed
elegant and appropriate, especially in social demeanor; fashion.
According to the usual style of dedications. C. Middleton.

6. Mode or phrase by which anything is formally designated; the
title; the official designation of any important body; mode of
address; as, the style of Majesty.
One style to a gracious benefactor, another to a proud, insulting
foe. Burke.

7. (Chron.)

Defn: A mode of reckoning time, with regard to the Julian and
Gregorian calendars.

Note: Style is Old or New. The Old Style follows the Julian manner of
computing the months and days, or the calendar as established by
Julius C?sar, in which every fourth year consists of 366 days, and
the other years of 365 days. This is about 11 minutes in a year too
much. Pope Georgy XIII. reformed the calendar by retrenching 10 days
in October, 1582, in order to bring back the vernal equinox to the
same day as at the time of the Council of Nice, A.D. 325. This
reformation was adopted by act of the British Parliament in 1751, by
which act 11 days in September, 1752, were retrenched, and the third
day was reckoned the fourteenth. This mode of reckoning is called New
Style, according to which every year divisible by 4, unless it is
divisible by 100 without being divisible by 400, has 366 days, and
any other year 365 days. Style of court, the practice or manner
observed by a court in its proceedings. Ayliffe.

Syn.
 -- Diction; phraseology; manner; course; title. See Diction.

STYLE
Style, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Styled; p. pr. & vb. n. Styling.]

Defn: To entitle; to term, name, or call; to denominate. "Styled
great conquerors." Milton.
How well his worth and brave adventures styled. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To call; name; denominate; designate; term; characterize.

STYLET
Sty"let, n. Etym: [F., dim. of style; cf. It. stiletto. See
Stiletto.]

Defn: A small poniard; a stiletto.

2. (Surg.)
(a) An instrument for examining wounds and fistulas, and for passing
setons, and the like; a probe, -- called also specillum.
(b) A stiff wire, inserted in catheters or other tubular instruments
to maintain their shape and prevent clogging.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any small, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ; as, the
caudal stylets of certain insects; the ventral stylets of certain
Infusoria.

STYLIFEROUS
Sty*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Style + -ferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing one or more styles.

STYLIFORM
Sty"li*form, a. Etym: [Style + -form: cf. F. styliforme.]

Defn: Having the form of, or resembling, a style, pin, or pen;
styloid.

STYLISH
Styl"ish, a.

Defn: Having style or artistic quality; given to, or fond of, the
display of style; highly fashionable; modish; as, a stylish dress,
house, manner.
 -- Styl"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Styl"ish*ness, n.

STYLIST
Styl"ist, n.

Defn: One who is a master or a model of style, especially in writing
or speaking; a critic of style.
Distinguished as a stylist, for ease. Fitzed. Hall.

STYLISTIC
Sty*lis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to style in language. [R.] "Stylistic
trifles." J. A. Symonds.
The great stylistic differences in the works ascribed to him
[Wyclif]. G. P. Marsh.

STYLITE
Sty"lite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a sect of anchorites in the early church, who lived on
the tops of pillars for the exercise of their patience; -- called
also pillarist and pillar saint.

STYLO-
Sty"lo-.

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,
or relation to, the styloid process of the temporal bone; as,
stylohyal, stylomastoid, stylomaxillary.

STYLOBATE
Sty"lo*bate, n. Etym: [L. stylobates, stylobata, Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: The uninterrupted and continuous flat band, coping, or pavement
upon which the bases of a row of columns are supported. See Sub-base.

STYLOGLOSSAL
Sty`lo*glos"sal, a. Etym: [Stylo- + glossal.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to styloid process and the tongue.

STYLOGRAPH
Sty"lo*graph, n.

Defn: A stylographic pen.

STYLOGRAPHIC
Sty`lo*graph"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to stylography; used in stylography; as,
stylographic tablets.

2. Pertaining to, or used in, stylographic pen; as, stylographic ink.
Stylographic pen, a pen with a conical point like that of a style,
combined with a reservoir for supplying it with ink.
 -- Stylographic pencil, a pencil used in stylography.

STYLOGRAPHICAL
Sty`lo*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Same as Stylographic, 1.
 -- Sty`lo*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

STYLOGRAPHY
Sty*log"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Style + -graphy.]

Defn: A mode of writing or tracing lines by means of a style on cards
or tablets.

STYLOHYAL
Sty`lo*hy"al, n. Etym: [Stylo- + the Gr. letter (Anat.)

Defn: A segment in the hyoidean arch between the epihyal and
tympanohyal.

STYLOHYOID
Sty`lo*hy"oid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the styloid process and the hyoid bone.

STYLOID
Sty"loid, a. Etym: [Style + -oid: cf. F. styloide, Gr.

1. Styliform; as, the styloid process.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the styloid process. Styloid process
(Anat.), a long and slender process from the lower side of the
temporal bone of man, corresponding to the tympanohyal and stylohyal
of other animals.

STYLOMASTOID
Sty`lo*mas"toid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the styloid and mastoid processes of the
temporal bone.

STYLOMAXILLARY
Sty`lo*max"il*la*ry, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the styloid process and the maxilla.

STYLOMETER
Sty*lom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring columns.

STYLOMMATA
Sty*lom"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: Same as Stylommatophora.

STYLOMMATOPHORA
Sty*lom`ma*toph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of Pulmonata in which the eyes are situated at the
tips of the tentacles. It includes the common land snails and slugs.
See Illust. under Snail.

STYLOMMATOPHOROUS
Sty*lom`ma*toph"o*rous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Stylommatophora.

STYLOPODIUM
Sty`lo*po"di*um, n.; pl. Stylopodia. Etym: [NL. See Style, and
Podium.] (Bot.)

Defn: An expansion at the base of the style, as in umbelliferous
plants.

STYLOPS
Sty"lops, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of minute insects parasitic, in their larval state, on
bees and wasps. It is the typical genus of the group Strepsiptera,
formerly considered a distinct order, but now generally referred to
the Coleoptera. See Strepsiptera.

STYLUS
Sty"lus, n. Etym: [L. stylus, or better stilus.]

Defn: An instrument for writing. See Style, n., 1. That needle-shaped
part at the tip of the playing arm of phonograph which sits in the
groove of a phonograph record while it is turning, to detect the
undulations in the phonograph groove and convert them into vibrations
which are transmitted to a system (since 1920 electronic) which
converts the signal into sound; also called needle. The stylus is
frequently composed of metal or diamond. 3. The needle-like device
used to cut the grooves which record the sound on the original disc
during recording of a phonograph record. 4. (Computers)

Defn: A pen-shaped pointing device used to specify the cursor
position on a graphics tablet.

STYMIE; STIMY
Sty"mie, n. Also Sti"my. [Orig. uncertain.] (Golf)

Defn: The position of two balls on the putting green such that, being
more than six inches apart, one ball lies directly between the other
and the hole at which the latter must be played; also, the act of
bringing the balls into this position.

STYMIE; STIMY
Sty"mie, v. t. Also Sti"my. (Golf)

Defn: To bring into the position of, or impede by, a stymie.

STYPHNATE
Styph"nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of styphnic acid.

STYPHNIC
Styph"nic, a. Etym: [Gr. (spurious) sty`fein to contract.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a yellow crystalline astringent
acid, (NO2)3.C6H.(OH)2, obtained by the action of nitric acid on
resorcin. Styphnic acid resembles picric acid, but is not bitter. It
acts like a strong dibasic acid, having a series of well defined
salts.

STYPTIC
Styp"tic, a. Etym: [L. stypticus, Gr.

Defn: Producing contraction; stopping bleeding; having the quality of
restraining hemorrhage when applied to the bleeding part; astringent.
[Written also stiptic.] Styptic weed (Bot.), an American leguminous
herb (Cassia occidentalis) closely related to the wild senna.

STYPTIC
Styp"tic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A styptic medicine.

STYPTICAL
Styp"tic*al, a.

Defn: Styptic; astringent.

STYPTICITY
Styp*tic"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. stypticite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being styptic; astringency.

STYRACIN
Styr"a*cin, n. Etym: [See Styrax.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline tasteless substance extracted from gum
storax, and consisting of a salt of cinnamic acid with cinnamic
alcohol.

STYRAX
Sty"rax, n. Etym: [L. styrax, storax, Gr. Storax.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of shrubs and trees, mostly American or Asiatic,
abounding in resinous and aromatic substances. Styrax officinalis
yields storax, and S. Benzoin yields benzoin.

2. Same as Storax.

STYROL
Sty"rol, n. Etym: [Styrax + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Styrolene.

STYROLENE
Sty"ro*lene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An unsaturated hydrocarbon, C8H8, obtained by the distillation
of storax, by the decomposition of cinnamic acid, and by the
condensation of acetylene, as a fragrant, aromatic, mobile liquid; --
called also phenyl ethylene, vinyl benzene, styrol, styrene, and
cinnamene.

STYRONE
Sty"rone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance having a sweet taste and a
hyacinthlike odor, obtained by the decomposition of styracin; --
properly called cinnamic, or styryl, alcohol.

STYRYL
Sty"ryl, n. Etym: [Styrax + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical found in certain derivatives of
styrolene and cinnamic acid; -- called also cinnyl, or cinnamyl.

STYTHE
Stythe, n. (Mining)

Defn: Choke damp.

STYTHY
Styth"y, n. & v.

Defn: See Stithy.

STYX
Styx, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The principal river of the lower world, which had to be crossed
in passing to the regions of the dead.

SUABILITY
Su`a*bil"i*ty, n. (Law)

Defn: Liability to be sued; the state of being subjected by law to
civil process.

SUABLE
Su"a*ble, a. (Law)

Defn: Capable of being sued; subject by law to be called to answer in
court. Story.

SUADE
Suade, v. t. Etym: [L. suadere.]

Defn: To persuade. [Obs.]

SUADIBLE
Suad"i*ble, a. Etym: [L. suadibilis.]

Defn: Suasible. [Obs.] Wyclif (James iii. 17).

SUAGE
Suage, v. t.

Defn: To assuage. [Obs.] Dryden.

SUANT
Su"ant, a. Etym: [Cf. Sue to pursue.]

Defn: Spread equally over the surface; uniform; even. [Written also
suent.] [Local, U.S. & Prov. Eng.] -- Su"ant*ly, adv. [Local, U.S. &
Prov. Eng.]

SUASIBLE
Sua"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. suadere, suasum, to persuade.]

Defn: Capable of being persuaded; easily persuaded.

SUASION
Sua"sion, n. Etym: [L. suasio, fr. suadere, suasum, to advise,
persuade, fr. suadus persuading, persuasive; akin to suavis sweet:
cf. OF. suasion. See Suave, and cf. Dissuade, Persuade.]

Defn: The act of persuading; persuasion; as, moral suasion.

SUASIVE
Sua"sive, a.

Defn: Having power to persuade; persuasive; suasory. South. "Genial
and suasive satire." Earle.
 -- Sua"sive*ly, adv.

SUASORY
Sua"so*ry, a. Etym: [L. suasorius: cf. F. suasoire.]

Defn: Tending to persuade; suasive.

SUAVE
Suave, a. Etym: [L. suavis sweet, pleasant: cf. F. suave. See Sweet,
and cf. Suasion.]

Defn: Sweet; pleasant; delightful; gracious or agreeable in manner;
bland.
 -- Suave"ly, adv.

SUAVIFY
Suav"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suavified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suavifying.] Etym: [Suave + -fy.]

Defn: To make affable or suave.

SUAVILOQUENT
Sua*vil"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. suaviloquens; suavis sweet + loquens,
p.pr. of loqui to speak.]

Defn: Sweetly speaking; using agreeable speech. [R.]

SUAVILOQUY
Sua*vil"o*quy, n. Etym: [L. suaviloquium.]

Defn: Sweetness of speech. [R.]

SUAVITY
Suav"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. suavitas: cf. F. suavite.]

1. Sweetness to the taste. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. The quality of being sweet or pleasing to the mind; agreeableness;
softness; pleasantness; gentleness; urbanity; as, suavity of manners;
suavity of language, conversation, or address. Glanvill.

SUB-
Sub-. Etym: [L. sub under, below; akin to Gr. upa to, on, under,
over. Cf. Hypo-, Super-.]

1. A prefix signifying under, below, beneath, and hence often, in an
inferior position or degree, in an imperfect or partial state, as in
subscribe, substruct, subserve, subject, subordinate, subacid,
subastringent, subgranular, suborn. Sub- in Latin compounds often
becomes sum- before m, sur before r, and regularly becomes suc-, suf-
, sug-, and sup- before c, f, g, and p respectively. Before c, p, and
t it sometimes takes form sus- (by the dropping of b from a
collateral form, subs-).

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix denoting that the ingredient (of a compound) signified
by the term to which it is prefixed,is present in only a small
proportion, or less than the normal amount; as, subsulphide,
suboxide, etc. Prefixed to the name of a salt it is equivalent to
basic; as, subacetate or basic acetate. [Obsoles.]

SUB
Sub, n.

Defn: A subordinate; a subaltern. [Colloq.]

SUBACETATE
Sub*ac"e*tate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An acetate containing an excess of the basic constituent.

SUBACID
Sub*ac"id, a. Etym: [L. subacidus. See Sub-, Acid.]

Defn: Moderately acid or sour; as, some plants have subacid juices.
 -- n.

Defn: A substance moderately acid.

SUBACRID
Sub*ac"rid, a.

Defn: Moderalely acrid or harsh.

SUBACROMIAL
Sub`a*cro"mi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated beneath the acromial process of the scapula.

SUBACT
Sub*act", v. t. Etym: [L. subactus, p.p. of subigere to subdue; sub
under + agere to lead, bring.]

Defn: To reduce; to subdue. [Obs.] Bacon.

SUBACTION
Sub*ac"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. L. subactio a working up, discipline.]

Defn: The act of reducing to any state, as of mixing two bodies
combletely. [Obs.] Bacon.

SUBACUTE
Sub`a*cute", a.

Defn: Moderalely acute.

SUBADUNCATE
Sub`a*dun"cate, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Somewhat hooked or curved.

SUBADVOCATE
Sub*ad"vo*cate, n.

Defn: An under or subordinate advocate.

SUBAERIAL
Sub`a*e"ri*al, a.

Defn: Beneath the sky; in the open air; specifically (Geol.), taking
place on the earth's surface, as opposed to subaqueous.

SUBAGENCY
Sub*a"gen*cy, n.

Defn: A subordinate agency.

SUBAGENT
Sub*a"gent, n. (Law)

Defn: A person employed by an agent to transact the whole, or a part,
of the business intrusted to the latter. Bouvier. Chitty.

SUBAGITATION
Sub*ag`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. subagitatio, fr. subagitare to lie
with illicity.]

Defn: Unlawful sexual intercourse. [Obs.]

SUBAH
Su"bah, n. Etym: [Per. & Hinf. s.]

Defn: A province; a government, as of a viceroy; also, a subahdar.
[India]

SUBAHDAR
Su"bah*dar, n. Etym: [Per. & Hinf. s, Per. s a province + dar
holding, keeping.]

Defn: A viceroy; a governor of a subah; also, a native captain in the
British native army. [India]

SUBAHDARY; SUBAHSHIP
Su"bah*dar`y, Su"bah*ship, n.

Defn: The office or jurisdiction of a subahdar.

SUBAID
Sub*aid", v. t.

Defn: To aid secretly; to assist in a private manner, or indirectly.
[R.] Daniel.

SUBALMONER
Sub*al"mon*er, n.

Defn: An under almoner.

SUBALPINE
Sub*al"pine, a. Etym: [L. subalpinus.] (Bot. & Zool.)

Defn: Inhabiting the somewhat high slopes and summits of mountains,
but considerably below the snow line.

SUBALTERN
Sub*al"tern, a. Etym: [F. subalterne, LL. subalternus, fr. L. sub
under + alter the one, the other of two. See Alter.]

1. Ranked or ranged below; subordinate; inferior; specifically
(Mil.), ranking as a junior officer; being below the rank of captain;
as, a subaltern officer.

2. (Logic)

Defn: Asserting only a part of what is asserted in a related
proposition. Subaltern genus. (Logic) See under Genus.

SUBALTERN
Sub*al"tern, n.

1. A person holding a subordinate position; specifically, a
commissioned military officer below the rank of captain.

2. (Logic)

Defn: A subaltern proposition. Whately.

SUBALTERNANT
Sub`al*ter"nant, n. (Logic)

Defn: A universal proposition. See Subaltern, 2. Whately.

SUBALTERNATE
Sub`al*ter"nate, a.

1. Succeeding by turns; successive.

2. Subordinate; subaltern; inferior.
All their subalternate and several kinds. Evelyn.

SUBALTERNATE
Sub`al*ter"nate, n. (Logic)

Defn: A particular proposition, as opposed to a universal one. See
Subaltern, 2.

SUBALTERNATING
Sub*al"ter*na`ting, a.

Defn: Subalternate; successive.

SUBALTERNATION
Sub*al"ter*na`tion, n.

Defn: The state of being subalternate; succession of turns;
subordination.

SUBANGULAR
Sub*an"gu*lar, a.

Defn: Slightly angular.

SUBAPENNINE
Sub*ap"en*nine, a.

Defn: Under, or at the foot of, the Apennine mountains; -- applied,
in geology, to a series of Tertiary strata of the older Pliocene
period.

SUBAPICAL
Sub*ap"ic*al, a.

Defn: Being under the apex; of or pertaining to the part just below
the apex.

SUBAQUANEOUS
Sub`a*qua"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. subaquaneus; sub + aqua water.]

Defn: Subaqueous. [Obs.]

SUBAQUATIC; SUBAQUEOUS
Sub`a*quat"ic, Sub*a"que*ous, a.

1. Being under water, or beneath the surface of water; adapted for
use under water; submarine; as, a subaqueous helmet.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Formed in or under water; as, subaqueous deposits.

SUBARACHNOID; SUBARACHNOIDAL
Sub`a*rach"noid, Sub*ar`ach*noid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the arachnoid membrane.

SUBARCTIC
Sub*arc"tic, a.

Defn: Approximately arctic; belonging to a region just without the
arctic circle.

SUBARCUATE; SUBARCUATED
Sub*ar"cu*ate, Sub*ar"cu*a`ted, a.

Defn: Having a figure resembling that of a bow; somewhat curved or
arched.

SUBARRATION
Sub`ar*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. arra, arrha, earnest money.
See Earnest a pledge.]

Defn: The ancient custom of betrothing by the bestowal, on the part
of the man, of marriage gifts or tokens, as money, rings, or other
presents, upon the woman.

SUBARYTENOID
Sub`a*ryt"e*noid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the arytenoid cartilage of the larynx.

SUBASTRAL
Sub*as"tral, a.

Defn: Beneath the stars or heavens; terrestrial. Bp. Warburton.

SUBASTRINGENT
Sub`as*trin"gent, a.

Defn: Somewhat astringent.

SUBATOM
Sub*at"om, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical component of a chemical atom, on the theory that
the elements themselves are complex substances; -- called also
atomicule.

SUBAUD
Sub*aud", v. t. Etym: [L. subaudire, subauditum; sub under + audire
to hear.]

Defn: To understand or supply in an ellipsis. [R.]

SUBAUDITION
Sub`au*di"tion, n. Etym: [L. subauditio.]

Defn: The act of understanding, or supplying, something not
expressed; also, that which is so understood or supplied. Trench.

SUBAXILLARY
Sub*ax"il*la*ry, a.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the axilla, or armpit.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Placed under the axil, or angle formed by the branch of a plant
with the stem, or a leaf with the branch.

SUBBASAL
Sub*ba"sal, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Near the base.

SUB-BASE
Sub"-base`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The lowest member of a base when divided horizontally, or of a
baseboard, pedestal, or the like.

SUB-BASS
Sub"-bass`, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The deepest pedal stop, or the lowest tones of an organ; the
fundamental or ground bass. [Written also sub-base.] Ayliffe.

SUBBEADLE
Sub*bea"dle, n.

Defn: An under beadle.

SUBBRACHIAL
Sub*brach"i*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the subbrachians.

SUBBRACHIALES
Sub*brach`i*a"les, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Sub-, and Brachial.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of soft-finned fishes in which the ventral fins are
situated beneath the pectorial fins, or nearly so.

SUBBRACHIAN
Sub*brach"i*an, n. Etym: [Pref. sub- + brachium.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Subbrachiales.

SUBBREED
Sub"breed`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A race or strain differing in certain characters from the
parent breed; an incipient breed.

SUBBRONCHIAL
Sub*bron"chi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the bronchi; as, the
subbronchial air sacs of birds.

SUBCALIBER
Sub*cal"i*ber, a.

Defn: Smaller than the caliber of a firearm. [Written also
subcalibre.] Subcaliber projectile, a projectile having a smaller
diameter than the caliber of the arm from which it is fired, and to
which it is fitted by means of a sabot. Knight.

SUBCARBONATE
Sub*car"bon*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A carbonate containing an excess of the basic constituent.

SUBCARBONIFEROUS
Sub*car`bon*if"er*ous, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the lowest division of the Carboniferous
formations underlying the proper coal measures. It was a marine
formation characterized in general by beds of limestone.
 -- n.

Defn: The Subcarboniferous period or formation.

SUBCARBURETED
Sub*car"bu*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: United with, or containing, carbon in less than the normal
proportion. [Written also subcarburetted.] [Obsoles.]

SUBCARTILAGINOUS
Sub*car`ti*lag"i*nous, a. (Anat.)
(a) Situated under or beneath a cartilage or cartilages.
(b) Partially cartilaginous.

SUBCAUDAL
Sub*cau"dal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the tail; as, the
subcaudal, or chevron, bones.

SUBCELESTIAL
Sub`ce*les"tial, a.

Defn: Being beneath the heavens; as, subcelestial glories. Barrow.

SUBCELLAR
Sub*cel"lar, n.

Defn: A cellar beneath another story wholly or partly underground;
usually, a cellar under a cellar.

SUBCENTRAL
Sub*cen"tral, a.

1. Under the center.

2. Nearly central; not quite central.

SUBCHANTER
Sub*chant"er, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: An underchanter; a precentor's deputy in a cathedral; a
succentor.

SUBCIRCULAR
Sub*cir"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Nearly circular.

SUBCLASS
Sub"class`, n.

Defn: One of the natural groups, more important than an order, into
which some classes are divided; as, the angiospermous subclass of
exogens.

SUBCLAVIAN
Sub*cla"vi*an, a. Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. clavis a key. See Clavicle.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the clavicle, or collar bone; as, the subclavian
arteries.

SUBCOLUMNAR
Sub`co*lum"nar, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Having an imperfect or interrupted columnar structure.

SUBCOMMITTEE
Sub`com*mit"tee, n.

Defn: An under committee; a part or division of a committee.
Yet by their sequestrators and subcommittees abroad . . . those
orders were commonly disobeyed. Milton.

SUBCOMPRESSED
Sub`com*pressed", a.

Defn: Not fully compressed; partially or somewhat compressed.

SUBCONCAVE
Sub*con"cave, a.

Defn: Slightly concave. Owen.

SUBCONFORMABLE
Sub`con*form"a*ble, a.

Defn: Partially conformable.

SUBCONICAL
Sub*con"ic*al, a.

Defn: Slightly conical.

SUBCONJUNCTIVAL
Sub*con`junc*ti"val, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the conjunctiva.

SUBCONSCIOUS
Sub*con"scious, a.

1. Occurring without the possibility or the fact of an attendant
consciousness; -- said of states of the soul.

2. Partially conscious; feebly conscious.

SUBCONSCIOUSNESS
Sub*con"scious*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being subconscious; a state of mind in
which perception and other mental processes occur without distinct
consciousness.

SUBCONSTELLATION
Sub*con`stel*la"tion, n. (Astron.)

Defn: A subordinate constellation. Sir T. Browne.

SUBCONTRACT
Sub*con"tract, n.

Defn: A contract under, or subordinate to, a previous contract.

SUBCONTRACTED
Sub`con*tract"ed, a.

1. Contracted after a former contract.

2. Betrothed for the second time. [Obs.] Shak.

SUBCONTRACTOR
Sub`con*tract"or, n.

Defn: One who takes a portion of a contract, as for work, from the
principal contractor.

SUBCONTRARY
Sub*con"tra*ry, a.

1. Contrary in an inferior degree.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: Having, or being in, a contrary order; -- said of a section of
an oblique cone having a circular base made by a plane not parallel
to the base, but so inclined to the axis that the section is a
circle; applied also to two similar triangles when so placed as to
have a common angle at the vertex, the opposite sides not being
parallel. Brande & C.

3. (Logic)

Defn: Denoting the relation of opposition between the particular
affirmative and particular negative. Of these both may be true and
only one can be false.

SUBCONTRARY
Sub*con"tra*ry, n.; pl. Subcontraries (. (Logic)

Defn: A subcontrary proposition; a proposition inferior or contrary
in a lower degree.

SUBCORACOID
Sub*cor"a*coid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the coracoid process of the scapula; as, the
subcoracoid dislocation of the humerus.

SUBCORDATE
Sub*cor"date, a.

Defn: Somewhat cordate; somewhat like a heart in shape.

SUBCORNEOUS
Sub*cor"ne*ous, a. (Anat.)
(a) Situated under a horny part or layer.
(b) Partially horny.

SUBCOSTAL
Sub*cos"tal, a. (Anat. & Zool.)

Defn: Situated below the costas, or ribs; as, the subcostal muscles.

Note: The subcostal muscles are distinct from, and within, the
intercostal.

SUBCOSTAL
Sub*cos"tal, n.

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A subcostal muscle.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the principal nervures of the wings of an insect. It is
situated next beneath or behind the costal. See Nervure.

SUBCRANIAL
Sub*cra"ni*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the cranium; facial.

SUBCRUSTACEOUS
Sub`crus*ta"ceous, a.

Defn: Occurring beneath a crust or scab; as, a subcrustaceous
cicatrization.

SUBCRYSTALLINE
Sub*crys"tal*line, a.

Defn: Imperfectly crystallized.

SUBCULTRATE; SUBCULTRATED
Sub*cul"trate, Sub*cul"tra*ted, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a form resembling that of a colter, or straight on one
side and curved on the other.

SUBCUTANEOUS
Sub`cu*ta"ne*ous, a.

Defn: Situated under the skin; hypodermic.
 -- Sub`cu*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv. Subcutaneous operation (Surg.), an
operation performed without opening that part of the skin opposite
to, or over, the internal section.

SUBCUTICULAR
Sub`cu*tic"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the cuticle, or scarfskin.

SUBCYLINDRICAL; SUBCYLINDRIC
Sub`cy*lin"dric*al, Sub`cy*lin"dric, a.

Defn: Imperfectly cylindrical; approximately cylindrical.

SUBDEACON
Sub*dea"con, n. Etym: [Pref. sub- + deacon: cf. L. subdiaconus.]
(Eccl.)

Defn: One belonging to an order in the Roman Catholic Church, next
interior to the order of deacons; also, a member of a minor order in
the Greek Church.

SUBDEACONRY; SUBDEACONSHIP
Sub*dea"con*ry, Sub*dea"con*ship, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: The order or office of subdeacon.

SUBDEAN
Sub"dean`, n. Etym: [Pref. sub- + dean: cf. F. sousdoyen.]

Defn: An under dean; the deputy or substitute of a dean. Ayliffe.

SUBDEANERY
Sub*dean"er*y, n.

Defn: Office or rank of subdean.

SUBDECANAL
Sub*dec"a*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a subdean or subdeanery.

SUBDECUPLE
Sub*dec"u*ple, a.

Defn: Containing one part of ten.

SUBDELEGATE
Sub*del"e*gate, n.

Defn: A subordinate delegate, or one with inferior powers.

SUBDELEGATE
Sub*del"e*gate, v. t.

Defn: To appoint to act as subdelegate, or as a subordinate; to
depete.

SUBDENTED
Sub*dent"ed, a.

Defn: Indented beneath.

SUBDEPARTMENT
Sub`de*part"ment, n.

Defn: A subordinate department; a bureau. See the Note under Bureau.

SUBDEPOSIT
Sub`de*pos"it, n.

Defn: That which is deposited beneath something else.

SUBDERISORIOUS
Sub`der*i*so"ri*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. derisorius. See
Derisory.]

Defn: Ridiculing with moderation. [R.] Dr. H. More.

SUBDERIVATIVE
Sub`de*riv"a*tive, n.

Defn: A word derived from a derivative, and not directly from the
root; as, "friendliness" is a subderivative, being derived from
"friendly", which is in turn a derivative from "friend."

SUBDIACONATE
Sub`di*ac"o*nate, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a subdeacon, or to the office or rank of a
subdeacon.

SUBDIACONATE
Sub`di*ac"o*nate, n.

Defn: The office or rank of a subdeacon.

SUBDIAL
Sub*di"al, a. Etym: [L. subdialis in the open air.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the open air; being under the open sky.
[R.] N. Bacon.

SUBDIALECT
Sub*di"a*lect, n.

Defn: A subordinate dialect.

SUBDICHOTOMY
Sub`di*chot"o*my, n.

Defn: A subordinate, or inferior, division into parts; a subdivision.
[R.]
Many subdichatomies of petty schisms. Milton.

SUBDILATED
Sub`di*lat"ed, a.

Defn: Partially dilated.

SUBDITITIOUS
Sub`di*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. subdititius, subditicius, fr. subdere
to substitute.]

Defn: Put secretly in the place of something else; foisted in. [R.]

SUBDIVERSIFY
Sub`di*ver"si*fy, v. t.

Defn: To diversify aggain what is already diversified. [R.] Sir M.
Hale.

SUBDIVIDE
Sub`di*vide", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subdivided; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subdividing.] Etym: [L. subdividere, sub under + dividere to divide.
See Divide.]

Defn: To divide the parts of (anything) into more parts; to part into
smaller divisions; to divide again, as what has already been divided.
The progenies of Cham and Japhet swarmed into colonies, and those
colonies were subdivided into many others. Dryden.

SUBDIVIDE
Sub`di*vide", v. i.

Defn: To be, or to become, subdivided.

SUBDIVINE
Sub`di*vine", a.

Defn: Partaking of divinity; divine in a partial or lower degree. Bp.
Hall.

SUBDIVISIBLE
Sub`di*vis"i*ble, a.

Defn: Susceptible of subdivision.

SUBDIVISION
Sub`di*vi"sion, n. Etym: [L. subdivisio: cf. F. subdivision.]

1. The act of subdividing, or separating a part into smaller parts.

2. A part of a thing made by subdividing.
In the decimal table, the subdivision of the cubit, as span, palm,
and digit, are deduced from the shorter cubit. Arbuthnot.

SUBDOLOUS
Sub"do*lous, a. Etym: [L. subdolus, sub + dolus deceit.]

Defn: Sly; crafty; cunning; artful. [R.]

SUBDOMINANT
Sub*dom"i*nant, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The fourth tone above, or fifth below, the tonic; -- so called
as being under the dominant.

SUBDUABLE
Sub*du"a*ble, a.

Defn: Able to be subdued.

SUBDUAL
Sub*du"al, n.

Defn: Act of subduing. Bp. Warburton.

SUBDUCE; SUBDUCT
Sub*duce", Sub*duct", v. t. Etym: [L. subducere, subductum; sub under
+ ducere to lead, to draw. See Duke, and cf. Subdue.]

1. To withdraw; to take away. Milton.

2. To subtract by arithmetical operation; to deduct.
If, out of that infinite multitude of antecedent generations, we
should subduce ten. Sir M. Hale.

SUBDUCTION
Sub*duc"tion, n. Etym: [L. subductio.]

1. The act of subducting or taking away. Bp. Hall.

2. Arithmetical subtraction. Sir M. Hale.

SUBDUE
Sub*due", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subdued; p. pr. & vb. n. Subduing.]
Etym: [OE. soduen, OF. sosduire to seduce, L. subtus below (fr. sub
under) + ducere to lead. See Duke, and cf. Subduct.]

1. To bring under; to conquer by force or the exertion of superior
power, and bring into permanent subjection; to reduce under dominion;
to vanquish.
I will subdue all thine enemies. 1 Chron. xvii. 10.

2. To overpower so as to disable from further resistance; to crush.
Nothing could have subdued nature To such a lowness, but his unkind
daughters. Shak.
If aught . . . were worthy to subdue The soul of man. Milton.

3. To destroy the force of; to overcome; as, medicines subdue a
fever.

4. To render submissive; to bring under command; to reduce to
mildness or obedience; to tame; as, to subdue a stubborn child; to
subdue the temper or passions.

5. To overcome, as by persuasion or other mild means; as, to subdue
opposition by argument or entreaties.

6. To reduce to tenderness; to melt; to soften; as, to subdue
ferocity by tears.

7. To make mellow; to break, as land; also, to destroy, as weeds.

8. To reduce the intensity or degree of; to tone down; to soften; as,
to subdue the brilliancy of colors.

Syn.
 -- To conquer; overpower; overcome; surmount; vanquish. See Conquer.

SUBDUED
Sub*dued", a.

1. Conquered; overpowered; crushed; submissive; mild.

2. Not glaring in color; soft in tone.

SUBDUEMENT
Sub*due"ment, n.

Defn: Subdual. [Obs.] Shak.

SUBDUER
Sub*du"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, subdues; a conqueror. Spenser.

SUBDULCID
Sub*dul"cid, a. Etym: [Pref. sub + L. dulcis sweet.]

Defn: Somewhat sweet; sweetish. [R.]

SUBDUPLE
Sub"du*ple, a. (Math.)

Defn: Indicating one part of two; in the ratio of one to two.
Subduple ratio, the ratio of 1 to 2: thus, 3:6 is a subduple ratio,
as 6:3 is a duple ratio.

SUBDUPLICATE
Sub*du"pli*cate, a. (Math.)

Defn: Expressed by the square root; -- said of ratios. Subduplicate
ratio, the ratio of the square roots, or the square root of a ratio;
thus, the subduplicate ratio of a to b is *a to *b, or *a/b.

SUBDURAL
Sub*du"ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the dura mater, or between the dura mater and
the arachnoid membrane.

SUBEDITOR
Sub*ed"i*tor, n.

Defn: An assistant editor, as of a periodical or journal.

SUBELONGATE
Sub`e*lon"gate, a.

Defn: Not fully elongated; somewhat elongated.

SUBENDOCARDIAL
Sub*en`do*car"di*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the endocardium.

SUBENDYMAL
Sub*en"dy*mal, a. Etym: [Pref. sub + endyma.]

Defn: Situated under the endyma.

SUBEPIDERMAL
Sub*ep`i*der"mal, a.

Defn: Situated immediately below the epidermis.

SUBEPIGLOTTIC
Sub*ep`i*glot"tic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the epiglottis.

SUBEPITHELIAL
Sub*ep`i*the"li*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the epithelium.

SUBEQUAL
Sub*e"qual, a.

Defn: Nearly equal.

SUBERATE
Su"ber*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. suberate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of suberic acid.

SUBEREOUS
Su*be"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. subereus of the cork tree.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to cork; of the nature of cork; suberose.

SUBERIC
Su*ber"ic, a. Etym: [L. suber the cork tree: cf. F. subereque.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to cork; specifically, designating an acid, C

SUBERIN
Su"ber*in, n. Etym: [L. suber the cork tree: cf. F. suberine.] (Bot.)

Defn: A material found in the cell walls of cork. It is a
modification of lignin.

SUBERITE
Su"ber*ite, n. Etym: [L. suber the cork tree.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any sponge of the genus Suberites and allied genera. These
sponges have a fine and compact texture, and contain minute siliceous
spicules.

SUBERIZATION
Su`ber*i*za"tion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Conversion of the cell walls into cork tissue by development of
suberin; -- commonly taking place in exposed tissues, as when a
callus forms over a wound. Suberized cell walls are impervious to
water.

SUBERIZE
Su"ber*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -ized; p. pr. & vb. n. -izing.] [L.
suber cork.] (Bot.)

Defn: To effect suberization of.

SUBERONE
Su"ber*one, n. (Chem.)
(a) The hypothetical ketone of suberic acid.
(b) A colorless liquid, analogous suberone proper, having a pleasant
peppermint odor. It is obtained by the distillation of calcium
suberate.

SUBEROSE; SUBEROUS
Su"ber*ose`, Su"ber*ous, a. Etym: [L. suber the cork tree: cf. F.
subereux.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a corky texture.

SUBESOPHAGEAL
Sub*e`so*phag"e*al, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Situated beneath the esophagus. [Written also suboesophageal.]
Subesophageal ganglion (Zool.), a large special ganglion situated
beneath the esophagus of arthropods, annelids, and some other
invertebrates.

SUBFAMILY
Sub*fam"i*ly, n. (Biol.)

Defn: One of the subdivisions, of more importance than genus, into
which certain families are divided.

SUBFIBROUS
Sub*fi"brous, a.

Defn: Somewhat fibrous.

SUBFUSCOUS
Sub*fus"cous, a. Etym: [L. subfuscus, suffuscus. See Sub-, and
Fuscous.]

Defn: Duskish; moderately dark; brownish; tawny.

SUBFUSK
Sub*fusk", a.

Defn: Subfuscous. [Obs.] Tatler.

SUBGELATINOUS
Sub`ge*lat"i*nous, a.

Defn: Imperfectly or partially gelatinous.

SUBGENERIC
Sub`ge*ner"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a subgenus.

SUBGENUS
Sub*ge"nus, n.; pl. Subgenera (. (Biol.)

Defn: A subdivision of a genus, comprising one or more species which
differ from other species of the genus in some important character or
characters; as, the azaleas now constitute a subgenus of
Rhododendron.

SUBGLACIAL
Sub*gla"cial, a.

Defn: Pertaining or belonging to the under side of a glacier; being
beneath a glacier; as, subglacial streams.

SUBGLOBOSE
Sub`glo*bose", a.

Defn: Not quite globose.

SUBGLOBULAR
Sub*glob"u*lar, a.

Defn: Nearly globular.

SUBGLOSSAL
Sub*glos"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the tongue; sublingual.

SUBGLOTTIC
Sub*glot"tic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated below the glottis; -- applied to that part of the
cavity of the larynx below the true vocal cords.

SUBGLUMACEOUS
Sub`glu*ma"ceous, a.

Defn: Somewhat glumaceous.

SUBGOVERNOR
Sub*gov"ern*or, n.

Defn: A subordinate or assistant governor.

SUBGRANULAR
Sub*gran"u*lar, a.

Defn: Somewhat granular.

SUBGROUP
Sub"group`, n. (Biol.)

Defn: A subdivision of a group, as of animals. Darwin.

SUBHASTATION
Sub`has*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. subhastatio.]

Defn: A public sale or auction. [R.] Bp. Burnet.

SUBHEPATIC
Sub`he*pat"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the liver; --
applied to the interlobular branches of the portal vein.

SUBHORNBLENDIC
Sub`horn*blend"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Containing hornblende in a scattered state; of or relating to
rocks containing disseminated hornblende.

SUBHUMERATE
Sub*hu"mer*ate, v. t. Etym: [See Sub-, Humerus.]

Defn: To place the shoulders under; to bear. [Obs.]
Nothing surer ties a friend than freely to subhumerate the burden
which was his. Feltham.

SUBHYALOID
Sub*hy"a*loid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the hyaliod membrane.

SUBHYOIDEAN
Sub`hy*oid"e*an, a. (Anat. & Med.)

Defn: Situated or performed beneath the hyoid bone; as, subhyoidean
laryngotomy.

SUBIMAGO
Sub`i*ma"go, n. Etym: [NL. See Sub-, and Imago.] (Zool.)

Defn: A stage in the development of certain insects, such as the May
flies, intermediate between the pupa and imago. In this stage, the
insect is able to fly, but subsequently sheds a skin before becoming
mature. Called also pseudimago.

SUBINCUSATION
Sub*in`cu*sa"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. sub + L. incusatio accusation, fr.
incusare to accuse.]

Defn: A slight charge or accusation. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SUBINDEX
Sub*in"dex, n.; pl. Subindices (. (Math.)

Defn: A number or mark placed opposite the lower part of a letter or
symbol to distinguish the symbol; thus, a0, b1, c2, xn, have 0, 1, 2,
and n as subindices.

SUBINDICATE
Sub*in"di*cate, v. t. Etym: [Pref. sub + indicate: cf. L.
subindicare.]

Defn: To indicate by signs or hints; to indicate imperfectly. [R.]
Dr. H. More.

SUBINDICATION
Sub*in`di*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of indicating by signs; a slight indication. [R.] "The
subindication and shadowing of heavenly things." Barrow.

SUBINDIVIDUAL
Sub*in`di*vid"u*al, n.

Defn: A division of that which is individual.
An individual can not branch itself into subindividuals. Milton.

SUBINDUCE
Sub`in*duce", v. t.

Defn: To insinuate; to offer indirectly. [Obs.] Sir E. Dering.

SUBINFER
Sub`in*fer", v. t. & i.

Defn: To infer from an inference already made. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SUBINFEUDATION
Sub*in`feu*da"tion, n. (Law)
(a) The granting of lands by inferior lords to their dependents, to
be held by themselves by feudal tenure. Craig.
(b) Subordinate tenancy; undertenancy.
The widow is immediate tenant to the heir, by a kind of
subinfeudation, or undertenancy. Blackstone.

SUBINGRESSION
Sub`in*gres"sion, n.

Defn: Secret entrance. [R.] Boyle.

SUBINTESTINAL
Sub`in*tes"ti*nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the intestine.

SUBINVOLUTION
Sub*in`vo*lu"tion, n.

Defn: Partial or incomplete involution; as, subinvolution of the
uterus.

SUBITANEOUS
Sub`i*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. subitaneus. See Sudden.]

Defn: Sudden; hasty. [Obs.] Bullokar.
 -- Sub`i*ta"ne*ous*ness, n. [Obs.]

SUBITANY
Sub"i*ta*ny, a.

Defn: Subitaneous; sudden; hasty. [Obs.] Hales.

SUBITO
Su"bi*to, adv. Etym: [It. & L.] (Mus.)

Defn: In haste; quickly; rapidly.

SUBJACENT
Sub*ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. subjacens, p.pr. of subjacere to lie under;
sub under + jacere to lie.]

1. Lying under or below.

2. Being in a lower situation, though not directly beneath; as, hills
and subjacent valleys.

SUBJECT
Sub*ject", a. Etym: [OE. suget, OF. souzget, sougit (in which the
first part is L. subtus below, fr. sub under), subgiet, subject, F.
sujet, from L. subjectus lying under, subjected, p.p. of subjicere,
subicere, to throw, lay, place, or bring under; sub under + jacere to
throw. See Jet a shooting forth.]

1. Placed or situated under; lying below, or in a lower situation.
[Obs.] Spenser.

2. Placed under the power of another; specifically (International
Law), owing allegiance to a particular sovereign or state; as,
Jamaica is subject to Great Britain.
Esau was never subject to Jacob. Locke.

3. Exposed; liable; prone; disposed; as, a country subject to extreme
heat; men subject to temptation.
All human things are subject to decay. Dryden.

4. Obedient; submissive.
Put them in mind to be subject to principalities. Titus iii. 1.

Syn.
 -- Liable; subordinate; inferior; obnoxious; exposed. See Liable.

SUBJECT
Sub*ject", n. Etym: [From L. subjectus, through an old form of F.
sujet. See Subject, a.]

1. That which is placed under the authority, dominion, control, or
influence of something else.

2. Specifically: One who is under the authority of a ruler and is
governed by his laws; one who owes allegiance to a sovereign or a
sovereign state; as, a subject of Queen Victoria; a British subject;
a subject of the United States.
Was never subject longed to be a king, As I do long and wish to be a
subject. Shak.
The subject must obey his prince, because God commands it, human laws
require it. Swift.

Note: In international law, the term subject is convertible with
citizen.

3. That which is subjected, or submitted to, any physical operation
or process; specifically (Anat.), a dead body used for the purpose of
dissection.

4. That which is brought under thought or examination; that which is
taken up for discussion, or concerning which anything is said or
done. "This subject for heroic song." Milton.
Make choice of a subject, beautiful and noble, which . . . shall
afford an ample field of matter wherein to expatiate. Dryden.
The unhappy subject of these quarrels. Shak.

5. The person who is treated of; the hero of a piece; the chief
character.
Writers of particular lives . . . are apt to be prejudiced in favor
of their subject. C. Middleton.

6. (Logic & Gram.)

Defn: That of which anything is affirmed or predicated; the theme of
a proposition or discourse; that which is spoken of; as, the
nominative case is the subject of the verb.
The subject of a proposition is that concerning which anything is
affirmed or denied. I. Watts.

7. That in which any quality, attribute, or relation, whether
spiritual or material, inheres, or to which any of these appertain;
substance; substratum.
That which manifests its qualities -- in other words, that in which
the appearing causes inhere, that to which they belong -- is called
their subject or substance, or substratum. Sir W. Hamilton.

8. Hence, that substance or being which is conscious of its own
operations; the mind; the thinking agent or principal; the ego. Cf.
Object, n., 2.
The philosophers of mind have, in a manner, usurped and appropriated
this expression to themselves. Accordingly, in their hands, the
phrases conscious or thinking subject, and subject, mean precisely
the same thing. Sir W. Hamilton.

9. (Mus.)

Defn: The principal theme, or leading thought or phrase, on which a
composition or a movement is based.
The earliest known form of subject is the ecclesiastical cantus
firmus, or plain song. Rockstro.

10. (Fine Arts)

Defn: The incident, scene, figure, group, etc., which it is the aim
of the artist to represent.

SUBJECT
Sub*ject", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subjected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subjecting.]

1. To bring under control, power, or dominion; to make subject; to
subordinate; to subdue.
Firmness of mind that subjects every gratification of sense to the
rule of right reason. C. Middleton.
In one short view subjected to our eye, Gods, emperors, heroes,
sages, beauties, lie. Pope.
He is the most subjected, the most Locke.

2. To expose; to make obnoxious or liable; as, credulity subjects a
person to impositions.

3. To submit; to make accountable.
God is not bound to subject his ways of operation to the scrutiny of
our thoughts. Locke.

4. To make subservient.
Subjected to his service angel wings. Milton.

5. To cause to undergo; as, to subject a substance to a white heat;
to subject a person to a rigid test.

SUBJECTED
Sub*ject"ed, a.

1. Subjacent. "Led them direct . . . to the subjected plain." [Obs.]
Milton.

2. Reduced to subjection; brought under the dominion of another.

3. Exposed; liable; subject; obnoxious.

SUBJECTION
Sub*jec"tion, n. Etym: [L. subjectio: cf. OF. subjection, F.
subjetion. See Subject, a.]

1. The act of subjecting, or of bringing under the dominion of
another; the act of subduing.
The conquest of the kingdom, and subjection of the rebels. Sir M.
Hale.

2. The state of being subject, or under the power, control, and
government of another; a state of obedience or submissiveness; as,
the safety of life, liberty, and property depends on our subjection
to the laws. "To be bound under subjection." Chaucer.
Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands. 1 Peter
iii. 1.
Because the subjection of the body to the will is by natural
necessity, the subjection of the will unto God voluntary, we stand in
need of direction after what sort our wills and desires may be
rightly conformed to His. Hooker.

SUBJECTIST
Sub"ject*ist, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: One skilled in subjective philosophy; a subjectivist.

SUBJECTIVE
Sub*jec"tive, a. Etym: [L. subjectivus: cf. F. subjectif.]

1. Of or pertaining to a subject.

2. Especially, pertaining to, or derived from, one's own
consciousness, in distinction from external observation; ralating to
the mind, or intellectual world, in distinction from the outward or
material excessively occupied with, or brooding over, one's own
internal states.

Note: In the philosophy of the mind, subjective denotes what is to be
referred to the thinking subject, the ego; objective, what belongs to
the object of thought, the non-ego. See Objective, a., 2. Sir W.
Hamilton.

3. (Lit. & Art)

Defn: Modified by, or making prominent, the individuality of a writer
or an artist; as, a subjective drama or painting; a subjective
writer.

Syn.
 -- See Objective. Subjective sensation (Physiol.), one of the
sensations occurring when stimuli due to internal causes excite the
nervous apparatus of the sense organs, as when a person imagines he
sees figures which have no objective reality.
 -- Sub*jec"tive*ly, adv.
 -- Sub*jec"tive*ness, n.

SUBJECTIVISM
Sub*jec"tiv*ism, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: Any philosophical doctrine which refers all knowledge to, and
founds it upon, any subjective states; egoism.

SUBJECTIVIST
Sub*jec"tiv*ist, n. (Metaph.)

Defn: One who holds to subjectivism; an egoist.

SUBJECTIVITY
Sub`jec*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being subjective; character of the
subject.

SUBJECTLESS
Sub"ject*less, a.

Defn: Having no subject.

SUBJECT-MATTER
Sub"ject-mat`ter, n.

Defn: The matter or thought presented for consideration in some
statement or discussion; that which is made the object of thought or
study.
As to the subject-matter, words are always to be understood as having
a regard thereto. Blackstone.
As science makes progress in any subject-matter, poetry recedes from
it. J. H. Newman.

SUBJECTNESS
Sub"ject*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being subject. [R.]

SUBJICIBLE
Sub*jic"i*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being subjected. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

SUBJOIN
Sub*join", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subjoined; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subjoining.] Etym: [Cf. OF. subjoindre, L. subjungere. See Sub-, and
Join, and cf. Subjective.]

Defn: To add after something else has been said or written; to ANNEX;
as, to subjoin an argument or reason.

Syn.
 -- To add; annex; join; unite.

SUBJOINDER
Sub*join"der, n.

Defn: An additional remark. [R.]

SUB JUDICE
Sub ju"di*ce. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Before the judge, or court; not yet decided; under judicial
consideration.

SUBJUGATE
Sub"ju*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subjugated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subjugating.] Etym: [L. subjugatus, p.p. of subjugare to subjugate;
sub under + jugum a yoke. See Yoke.]

Defn: To subdue, and bring under the yoke of power or dominion; to
conquer by force, and compel to submit to the government or absolute
control of another; to vanquish.
He subjugated a king, and called him his "vassal." Baker.

Syn.
 -- To conquer; subdue; overcome. See Conquer.

SUBJUGATION
Sub`ju*ga"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. subjugation, LL. subjugatio.]

Defn: The act of subjugating, or the state of being subjugated.

SUBJUGATOR
Sub"ju*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who subjugates; a conqueror.

SUBJUNCTION
Sub*junc"tion, n. Etym: [See Subjunctive.]

1. Act of subjoining, or state of being subjoined.

2. Something subjoined; as, a subjunction to a sentence.

SUBJUNCTIVE
Sub*junc"tive, a. Etym: [L. subjunctivus, fr. subjungere, subjunctum,
to subjoin: cf. F. subjonctif. See Subjoin.]

Defn: Subjoined or added to something before said or written.
Subjunctive mood (Gram.), that form of a verb which express the
action or state not as a fact, but only as a conception of the mind
still contingent and dependent. It is commonly subjoined, or added as
subordinate, to some other verb, and in English is often connected
with it by if, that, though, lest, unless, except, until, etc., as in
the following sentence: "If there were no honey, they [bees] would
have no object in visiting the flower." Lubbock. In some languages,
as in Latin and Greek, the subjunctive is often independent of any
other verb, being used in wishes, commands, exhortations, etc.

SUBJUNCTIVE
Sub*junc"tive, n. (Gram.)

Defn: The subjunctive mood; also, a verb in the subjunctive mood.

SUBKINGDOM
Sub*king"dom, n.

Defn: One of the several primary divisions of either the animal, or
vegetable kingdom, as, in zoology, the Vertebrata, Tunicata,
Mollusca, Articulata, Molluscoidea, Echinodermata, Coelentera, and
the Protozoa; in botany, the Phanerogamia, and the Cryptogamia.

SUBLAPSARIAN
Sub`lap*sa"ri*an, n. & a. Etym: [Pref. sub + lapse: cf. F.
sublapsarien, sublapsarie.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: Same as Infralapsarian.

SUBLAPSARIANISM
Sub`lap*sa"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: Infralapsarianism.

SUBLAPSARY
Sub*lap"sa*ry, a.

Defn: Sublapsarian. Johnson.

SUBLATE
Sub"late, v. t. Etym: [From sublatus, used as p.p. of tollere to take
away. See Tolerate.]

Defn: To take or carry away; to remove. [R.] E. Hall.

SUBLATION
Sub*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. sublatio, fr. sublatus, used as p.p. of
tollere to take away.]

Defn: The act of taking or carrying away; removal. [R.] Bp. Hall.

SUBLATIVE
Sub"la*tive, a.

Defn: Having power, or tending, to take away. [R.] Harris.

SUBLEASE
Sub"lease`, n. (Law)

Defn: A lease by a tenant or lessee to another person; an underlease.
Bouvier.

SUBLESSEE
Sub`les*see", n.

Defn: A holder of a sublease.

SUBLET
Sub*let", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sublet; p. pr. & vb. n. Subletting.]

Defn: To underlet; to lease, as when a lessee leases to another
person.

SUBLEVATION
Sub`le*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. sublevare to lift up; sub under + levare
to lift, raise: cf. L. sublevatio an allevation.]

1. The act of raising on high; elevation. Sir T. More.

2. An uprising; an insurrection. [R.] Sir W. Temple.

SUBLIBRARIAN
Sub`li*bra"ri*an, n.

Defn: An under or assistant librarian.

SUBLIEUTENANT
Sub`lieu*ten"ant, n. Etym: [Pref. sub + lieutenant: cf. F. sous-
lieutenant.]

Defn: An inferior or second lieutenant; in the British service, a
commissioned officer of the lowest rank.

SUBLIGATION
Sub`li*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. subligatio, from subligare to bind
below; sub under + ligare to bind.]

Defn: The act of binding underneath. [R.]

SUBLIMABLE
Sub*lim"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sublimable. See Sublime., v. t.]

Defn: Capable of being sublimed or sublimated.
 -- Sub*lim"a*ble*ness, n. Boyle.

SUBLIMATE
Sub"li*mate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sublimated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sublimating.] Etym: [L. sublimatus, p.p. of sublimare to raise,
elevate, fr. sublimis high: cf. F. sublimer. See Sublime, a., and cf.
Surlime, v. t.]

1. To bring by heat into the state of vapor, which, on cooling,
returns again to the solid state; as, to sublimate sulphur or
camphor.

2. To refine and exalt; to heighten; to elevate.
The precepts of Christianity are . . . so apt to cleanse and
sublimate the more gross and corrupt. Dr. H. More.

SUBLIMATE
Sub"li*mate, n. Etym: [LL. sublimatum.] (Chem.)

Defn: A product obtained by sublimation; hence, also, a purified
product so obtained. Corrosive sublimate. (Chem.) See under
Corrosive.

SUBLIMATE
Sub"li*mate, a. Etym: [LL. sublimatus.]

Defn: Brought into a state of vapor by heat, and again condensed as a
solid.

SUBLIMATED
Sub"li*ma`ted, a.

Defn: Refined by, or as by, sublimation; exalted; purified.
[Words] whose weight best suits a sublimated strain. Dryden.

SUBLIMATION
Sub"li*ma`tion, n. Etym: [LL. sublimatio: cf. F. sublimation.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of subliming, or the state or result of
being sublimed.

2. The act of heightening or improving; exaltation; elevation;
purification.

3. That which is sublimed; the product of a purifying process.
Religion is the perfection, refinement, and sublimation of morality.
South.

SUBLIMATORY
Sub"li*ma*to*ry, a.

Defn: Used for sublimation; as, sublimatory vessels. Boyle.

SUBLIMATORY
Sub"li*ma*to*ry, n.

Defn: A vessel used for sublimation.
Vials, crosslets, and sublimatories. Chaucer.

SUBLIME
Sub*lime", a. [Compar. Sublimer; superl. Sublimest.] Etym: [L.
sublimis; sub under + (perhaps) a word akin to limen lintel, sill,
thus meaning, up to the lintel: cf. F. sublime. Cf. Eliminate.]

1. Lifted up; high in place; exalted aloft; uplifted; lofty.
Sublime on these a tower of steel is reared. Dryden.

2. Distinguished by lofty or noble traits; eminent; -- said of
persons. "The sublime Julian leader." De Quincey.

3. Awakening or expressing the emotion of awe, adoration, veneration,
heroic resolve, etc.; dignified; grand; solemn; stately; -- said of
an impressive object in nature, of an action, of a discourse, of a
work of art, of a spectacle, etc.; as, sublime scenery; a sublime
deed.
Easy in words thy style, in sense sublime. Prior.
Know how sublime a thing it is To suffer and be strong. Longfellow.

4. Elevated by joy; elate. [Poetic]
Their hearts were jocund and sublime, Drunk with idolatry, drunk with
wine. Milton.

5. Lofty of mien; haughty; proud. [Poetic] "Countenance sublime and
insolent." Spenser.
His fair, large front and eye sublime declared Absolute rule. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Exalted; lofty; noble; majestic. See Grand.

SUBLIME
Sub*lime", n.

Defn: That which is sublime; -- with the definite article; as:
(a) A grand or lofty style in speaking or writing; a style that
expresses lofty conceptions.
The sublime rises from the nobleness of thoughts, the magnificence of
words, or the harmonious and lively turn of the phrase. Addison.

(b) That which is grand in nature or art, as distinguished from the
merely beautiful.

SUBLIME
Sub*lime", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sublimed; p. pr. & vb. n. Subliming.]
Etym: [Cf. L. sublimare, F. sublimer to subject to sublimation. See
Sublime, a., and cf. Sublimate, v. t.]

1. To raise on high. [Archaic]
A soul sublimed by an idea above the region of vanity and conceit. E.
P. Whipple.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: To subject to the process of sublimation; to heat, volatilize,
and condense in crystals or powder; to distill off, and condense in
solid form; hence, also, to purify.

3. To exalt; to heighten; to improve; to purify.
The sun . . . Which not alone the southern wit sublimes, But ripens
spirits in cold, northern climes. Pope.

4. To dignify; to ennoble.
An ordinary gift can not sublime a person to a supernatural
employment. Jer. Taylor.

SUBLIME
Sub*lime", v. i. (Chem.)

Defn: To pass off in vapor, with immediate condensation;
specifically, to evaporate or volatilize from the solid state without
apparent melting; -- said of those substances, like arsenic, benzoic
acid, etc., which do not exhibit a liquid form on heating, except
under increased pressure.

SUBLIMED
Sub*limed", a. (Chem.)

Defn: Having been subjected to the process of sublimation; hence,
also, purified. "Sublimed mercurie." Chaucer.

SUBLIMELY
Sub*lime"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sublime manner.

SUBLIMENESS
Sub*lime"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sublime; sublimity.

SUBLIMIFICATION
Sub*lim`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. sublimis sublime + -ficare to
make. See -ry.]

Defn: The act of making sublime, or state of being made sublime.

SUBLIMINAL
Sub*lim"i*nal, a. [Pref. sub-+ L. limen threshold.] (Philos.)

Defn: Existing in the mind, but below the surface or threshold of
consciousness; that is, existing as feeling rather than as clear
ideas.

SUBLIMITY
Sub*lim"i*ty, n.; pl. Sublimities. Etym: [L. sublimitas: cf. F.
sublimite.]

1. The quality or state of being sublime (in any sense of the
adjective).

2. That which is sublime; as, the sublimities of nature.

Syn.
 -- Grandeur; magnificence.
 -- Sublimity, Grandeur. The mental state indicated by these two
words is the same, namely, a mingled emotion of astonishment and awe.
In speaking of the quality which produces this emotion, we call it
grandeur when it springs from what is vast in space, power, etc.; we
call it sublimity when it springs from what is elevated far above the
ordinary incidents of humanity. An immense plain is grand. The
heavens are not only grand, but sublime (as the predominating
emotion), from their immense height. Exalted intellect, and
especially exalted virtue under severe trials, give us the sense of
moral sublimity, as in the case of our Savior in his prayer for his
murderers. We do not speak of Satan, when standing by the fiery gulf,
with his "unconquerable will and study of revenge," as a sublime
object; but there is a melancholy grandeur thrown around him, as of
an "archangel ruined."

SUBLINEATION
Sub*lin`e*a"tion, n.

Defn: A mark of a line or lines under a word in a sentence, or under
another line; underlining.

SUBLINGUA
Sub*lin"gua, n.; pl. Sublingu?. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: A process or fold below the tongue in some animals.

SUBLINGUAL
Sub*lin"gual, a. Etym: [Pref. sub + lingual: cf. F. sublingual.]
(Anat.)
(a) Situated under the tongue; as, the sublingual gland.
(b) Of or pertaining to the sublingual gland; as, sublingual salvia.

SUBLITION
Sub*li"tion, n. Etym: [L. sublinere, sublitum, to smear, to lay on as
a ground color.] (Paint.)

Defn: The act or process of laying the ground in a painting. [R.]

SUBLITTORAL
Sub*lit"to*ral, a.

Defn: Under the shore. Smart.

SUBLOBULAR
Sub*lob"u*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or at the bases of, the lobules of the liver.

SUBLUMBAR
Sub*lum"bar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the lumbar region of
the vertebral column.

SUBLUNAR; SUBLUNARY
Sub*lu"nar, Sub"lu*na*ry, a. Etym: [Pref. sub + lunar, or lunary: cf.
F. sublunaire.]

Defn: Situated beneath the moon; hence, of or pertaining to this
world; terrestrial; earthly.
All things sublunary are subject to change. Dryden.
All sublunary comforts imitate the changeableness, as well as feel
the influence, of the planet they are under. South.

SUBLUNARY
Sub"lu*na*ry, n.

Defn: Any worldly thing. [Obs.]

SUBLUXATION
Sub`lux*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. sub + luxation: cf. F. subluxation.]
(Surg.)

Defn: An incomplete or partial dislocation.

SUBMAMMARY
Sub*mam"ma*ry, a.

Defn: Situated under the mamm?; as, submammary inflammation.

SUBMARINE
Sub`ma*rine", a.

Defn: Being, acting, or growing, under water in the sea; as,
submarine navigators; submarine plants. Submarine armor, a waterproof
dress of strong material, having a helmet into which air for
breathing is pumped through a tube leading from above the surface to
enable a diver to remain under water.
 -- Submarine cable. See Telegraph cable, under Telegraph.
 -- Submarine mine. See Torpedo, 2 (a).

SUBMARINE
Sub*ma*rine", n.

Defn: A submarine plant or animal.

SUBMARSHAL
Sub*mar"shal, n.

Defn: An under or deputy marshal.

SUBMAXILLARY
Sub*max"il*la*ry, a. (Anat.)
(a) Situated under the maxilla, or lower jaw; inframaxillary; as, the
submaxillary gland.
(b) Of or pertaining to submaxillary gland; as, submaxillary salvia.

SUBMEDIAL
Sub*me"di*al, a.

Defn: Lying under the middle.

SUBMEDIAN
Sub*me"di*an, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Next to the median (on either side); as, the submedian teeth of
mollusks.

SUBMEDIANT
Sub*me"di*ant, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The sixth tone of the scale; the under mediant, or third below
the keynote; the superdominant.

SUBMENTAL
Sub*men"tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the chin; as, the submental artery.

SUBMENTUM
Sub*men"tum, n.; pl. Submenta. Etym: [NL. See Sub-, and Mentum.]
(Zool.)

Defn: The basal part of the labium of insects. It bears the mentum.

SUBMERGE
Sub*merge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Submerged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Submerging.] Etym: [L. submergere, submersum; sub under + mergere to
plunge: cf. F. submerger. See Merge.]

1. To put under water; to plunge.

2. To cover or overflow with water; to inundate; to flood; to drown.
I would thou didst, So half my Egypt were submerged. Shak.

SUBMERGE
Sub*merge", v. i.

Defn: To plunge into water or other fluid; to be buried or covered,
as by a fluid; to be merged; hence, to be completely included.
Some say swallows submerge in ponds. Gent. Mag.

SUBMERGENCE
Sub*mer"gence, n. Etym: [From L. submergens, p.pr.]

Defn: The act of submerging, or the state of being submerged;
submersion.

SUBMERSE
Sub*merse", a. (Bot.)

Defn: Submersed.

SUBMERSED
Sub*mersed", a. Etym: [L. submersus, p.p. of submergere. See
Submerge.]

Defn: Being or growing under water, as the leaves of aquatic plants.

SUBMERSION
Sub*mer"sion, n. Etym: [L. submersio: cf. F. submersion.]

1. The act of submerging, or putting under water or other fluid, or
of causing to be overflowed; the act of plunging under water, or of
drowning.

2. The state of being put under water or other fluid, or of being
overflowed or drowned.

SUBMETALLIC
Sub`me*tal"lic, a.

Defn: Imperfectly metallic; as, a submetallic luster.

SUBMINISTER
Sub*min"is*ter, v. t. Etym: [L. subministrare, subministratum. See
Sub-, and Ministre, v. t.]

Defn: To supply; to afford. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

SUBMINISTER
Sub*min"is*ter, v. i.

Defn: To be subservient; to be useful. [Obs.] "Our passions . . .
subminister to the best and worst purposes." L'EStrange.

SUBMINISTRANT
Sub*min"is*trant, a. Etym: [L. subministrans, p.pr.]

Defn: Subordinate; subservient. [Obs.] Bacon.

SUBMINISTRATE
Sub*min"is*trate, v. t. Etym: [See Subminister.]

Defn: To supply; to afford; to subminister. [Obs.] Harvey.

SUBMINISTRATION
Sub*min`is*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. subministratio.]

Defn: The act of subministering. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

SUBMISS
Sub*miss", a. Etym: [L. submissus, p.p. of submittere to let down, to
lower. See Submit.]

1. Submissive; humble; obsequious. [Archaic] "Soft Silence and
submiss Obedience." Spenser. "Stooping and submiss." R. L. Stevenson.

2. Gentle; soft; calm; as, submiss voices. [R.]

SUBMISSION
Sub*mis"sion, n. Etym: [L. submissio a letting down, lowering: cf. F.
soumission.]

1. The act of submitting; the act of yielding to power or authority;
surrender of the person and power to the control or government of
another; obedience; compliance.
Submission, dauphin! 't is a mere French word; We English warrious
wot not what it means. Shak.

2. The state of being submissive; acknowledgement of inferiority or
dependence; humble or suppliant behavior; meekness; resignation.
In all submission and humility York doth present himself unto your
highness. Shak.
No duty in religion is more justly required by God . . . than a
perfect submission to his will in all things. Sir W. Temple.

3. Acknowledgement of a fault; confession of error.
Be not as extreme in submission As in offense. Shak.

4. (Law)

Defn: An agreement by which parties engage to submit any matter of
controversy between them to the decision of arbitrators. Wharton (Law
Dict.). Bouvier.

SUBMISSIVE
Sub*mis"sive, a.

1. Inclined or ready to submit; acknowledging one's inferiority;
yielding; obedient; humble.
Not at his feet submissive in distress, Creature so fair his
reconcilement seeking. Milton.

2. Showing a readiness to submit; expressing submission; as, a
submissive demeanor.
With a submissive step I hasted down. Prior.

Syn.
 -- Obedient; compliant; yielding; obsequious; subservient; humble;
modest; passive.
 -- Sub*mis"sive*ly, adv.
 -- Sub*mis"sive*ness, n.

SUBMISSLY
Sub*miss"ly, adv.

Defn: In a submissive manner; with a submission. [Archaic] Jer.
Taylor.

SUBMISSNESS
Sub*miss"ness, n.

Defn: Submissiveness. [Obs.]

SUBMIT
Sub*mit", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Submitted; p. pr. & vb. n. Submitting.]
Etym: [L. submittere; sub under + mittere to send: cf. F. soumettre.
See Missile.]

1. To let down; to lower. [Obs.]
Sometimes the hill submits itself a while. Dryden.

2. To put or place under.
The bristled throat Of the submitted sacrifice with ruthless steel he
cut. Chapman.

3. To yield, resign, or surrender to power, will, or authority; --
often with the reflexive pronoun.
Ye ben submitted through your free assent. Chaucer.
The angel of the Lord said unto her, Return to thy mistress, and
submit thyself under her hands. Gen. xvi. 9.
Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands. Eph. v. 22.

4. To leave or commit to the discretion or judgment of another or
others; to refer; as, to submit a controversy to arbitrators; to
submit a question to the court; -- often followed by a dependent
proposition as the object.
Whether the condition of the clergy be able to bear a heavy burden,
is submitted to the house. Swift.
We submit that a wooden spoon of our day would not be justified in
calling Galileo and Napier blockheads because they never heard of the
differential calculus. Macaulay.

SUBMIT
Sub*mit", v. i.

1. To yield one's person to the power of another; to give up
resistance; to surrender.
The revolted provinces presently submitted. C. Middleton.

2. To yield one's opinion to the opinion of authority of another; to
be subject; to acquiesce.
To thy husband's will Thine shall submit. Milton.

3. To be submissive or resigned; to yield without murmuring.
Our religion requires from us . . . to submit to pain, disgrace, and
even death. Rogers.

SUBMITTER
Sub*mit"ter, n.

Defn: One who submits. Whitlock.

SUBMONISH
Sub*mon"ish, v. t. Etym: [L. submonere. See Summon, and -ish.]

Defn: To suggest; to prompt. [R.] "The submonishing inclinations of
my senses." T. Granger.

SUBMONITION
Sub`mo*ni"tion, n. Etym: [LL. submonitio.]

Defn: Suggestion; prompting. [R.] T. Granger.

SUBMUCOUS
Sub*mu"cous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under a mucous membrane.

SUBMULTIPLE
Sub*mul"ti*ple, n. (Math.)

Defn: A number or quality which is contained in another an exact
number of times, or is an aliquot part of it; thus, 7 is the
submultiple of 56, being contained in it eight times.

SUBMULTIPLE
Sub*mul"ti*ple, a. (Math.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a submultiple; being a submultiple; as, a
submultiple number; submultiple ratio.

SUBMUSCULAR
Sub*mus"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Situated underneath a muscle or muscles.

SUBNARCOTIC
Sub`nar*cot"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Moderately narcotic.

SUBNASAL
Sub*na"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the nose; as, the subnasal point, or the middle
point of the inferior border of the anterior nasal aperture.

SUBNASCENT
Sub*nas"cent, a. Etym: [L. subnascens, p.pr. of subnasci to grow
under; sub under + nasci to be born.]

Defn: Growing underneath. [R.] Evelyn.

SUBNECT
Sub*nect", v. t. Etym: [L. subnectere, subnextum; sub under + nectere
to tie.]

Defn: To tie or fasten beneath; to join beneath. [R.] Pope.

SUBNEX
Sub*nex", v. t. Etym: [See Subnect.]

Defn: To subjoin; to subnect. [Obs.] Holland.

SUBNORMAL
Sub*nor"mal, n. (Geom.)

Defn: That part of the axis of a curved line which is intercepted
between the ordinate and the normal.

SUBNOTATION
Sub`no*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. subnotatio a signing underneath, fr.
subnotare to subscribe; sub under + notare to note or mark.]

Defn: A rescript. Bouvier.

SUBNOTOCHORDAL
Sub*no`to*chor"dal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated on the ventral side of the notochord; as, the
subnotochordal rod.

SUBNUVOLAR
Sub*nu"vo*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. sub + It. nuvola cloud: cf. L.
subnubilus somewhat cloudy.]

Defn: Under the clouds; attended or partly covered or obscured by
clouds; somewhat cloudy. [R. & Poetic]
Subnuvolar lights of evening sharply slant. Milnes.

SUBOBSCURELY
Sub`ob*scure"ly, adv.

Defn: Somewhat obscurely or darkly. [R.] Donne.

SUBOBTUSE
Sub`ob*tuse", a.

Defn: Partially obtuse.

SUBOCCIPITAL
Sub`oc*cip"i*tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or posterior to, the occiput; as, the
suboccipital, or first cervical, nerve.

SUBOCTAVE; SUBOCTUPLE
Sub*oc"tave, Sub*oc"tu*ple, a.

Defn: Containing one part of eight; having the ratio of one to eight.
Bp. Wilkins.

SUBOCULAR
Sub*oc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. sub + ocular: cf. L. subocularis.]
(Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the eye.

SUBOFFICER
Sub*of"fi*cer, n. Etym: [Pref. sub + officer: cf. F. sous-officer.]

Defn: An under or subordinate officer.

SUBOPERCULAR
Sub`o*per"cu*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated below the operculum; pertaining to the suboperculum.
 -- n.

Defn: The suboperculum.

SUBOPERCULUM
Sub`o*per"cu*lum, n. Etym: [NL. See Sub-, Operculum.] (Anat.)

Defn: The lower opercular bone in fishes.

SUBORBICULAR; SUBORBICULATE
Sub`or*bic"u*lar, Sub`or*bic"u*late, a.

Defn: Almost orbiculate or orbicular.

SUBORBITAL; SUBORBITAR
Sub*or"bit*al, Sub*or"bit*ar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under or below the orbit.

SUBORDER
Sub*or"der, n. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A division of an order; a group of genera of a little lower
rank than an order and of greater importance than a tribe or family;
as, cichoraceous plants form a suborder of Composit?.

SUBORDINACY
Sub*or"di*na*cy, n. Etym: [See Subordinate.]

Defn: The quality or state of being subordinate, or subject to
control; subordination, as, to bring the imagination to act in
subordinacy to reason. Spectator.

SUBORDINANCE; SUBORDINANCY
Sub*or"di*nance, Sub*or"di*nan*cy, n. Etym: [Pref. sub + L. ordinans,
p.pr. of ordinare. See Subordinate, a.]

Defn: Subordinacy; subordination. [Obs.] Dr. H. More. Sir W. Temple.

SUBORDINARY
Sub*or"di*na*ry, n. (Her.)

Defn: One of several heraldic bearings somewhat less common than an
ordinary. See Ordinary.

Note: Different writers name different bearings as subordinaries, but
the bar, bend, sinister, pile, inescutcheon bordure, gyron, and
quarter, are always considered subordinaries by those who do not
class them as ordinaries.

SUBORDINATE
Sub*or"di*nate, a. Etym: [Pref. sub + L. ordinatus, p.p. of ordinare
to set in order, to arrange. See Ordain.]

1. Placed in a lower order, class, or rank; holding a lower or
inferior position.
The several kinds and subordinate species of each are easily
distinguished. Woodward.

2. Inferior in order, nature, dignity, power, importance, or the
like.
It was subordinate, not enslaved, to the understanding. South.

SUBORDINATE
Sub*or"di*nate, n.

Defn: One who stands in order or rank below another; -- distinguished
from a principal. Milton.

SUBORDINATE
Sub*or"di*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subordinated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subordinating.]

1. To place in a lower order or class; to make or consider as of less
value or importance; as, to subordinate one creature to another.

2. To make subject; to subject or subdue; as, to subordinate the
passions to reason.
 -- Sub*or"di*nate*ly, adv.
 -- Sub*or"di*nate*ness, n.

SUBORDINATION
Sub*or`di*na"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. subordination.]

1. The act of subordinating, placing in a lower order, or subjecting.

2. The quality or state of being subordinate or inferior to an other;
inferiority of rank or dignity; subjection.
Natural creature having a local subordination. Holyday.

3. Place of inferior rank.
Persons who in their several subordinations would be obliged to
follow the example of their superiors. Swift.

SUBORDINATIVE
Sub*or"di*na*tive, a.

Defn: Tending to subordinate; expressing subordination; used to
introduce a subordinate sentence; as, a subordinative conjunction.

SUBORN
Sub*orn", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suborned; p. pr. & vb. n. Suborning.]
Etym: [F. suborner, L. subornare; sub under, secretly + ornare to
furnish, provide, equip, adorn. See Ornament.]

1. (Law)

Defn: To procure or cause to take a false oath amounting to perjury,
such oath being actually taken. Sir W. O. Russell.

2. To procure privately, or by collusion; to procure by indirect
means; to incite secretly; to instigate.
Thou art suborned against his honor. Shak.
Those who by despair suborn their death. Dryden.

SUBORNATION
Sub`or*na"tion, n. Etym: [F. subornation.]

1. (Law)

Defn: The act of suborning; the crime of procuring a person to take
such a false oath as constitutes perjury. Blackstone.

2. The sin or offense of procuring one to do a criminal or bad
action, as by bribes or persuasion.
Foul subornation is predominant. Shak.
The sort of chicanery attending the subornation of managers in the
Leibnitz controversy. De Quinsey.

SUBORNER
Sub*orn"er, n.

Defn: One who suborns or procures another to take, a false oath; one
who procures another to do a bad action.

SUBOVAL
Sub*o"val, a.

Defn: Somewhat oval; nearly oval.

SUBOVATE
Sub*o"vate, a.

Defn: Nearly in the form of an egg, or of the section of an egg, but
having the inferior extremity broadest; nearly ovate.

SUBOVATED
Sub*o"va*ted, a.

Defn: Subovate. [R.]

SUBOXIDE
Sub*ox"ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An oxide containing a relatively small amount of oxygen, and
less than the normal proportion; as, potassium suboxide, K4O.

SUBPEDUNCULAR
Sub`pe*dun"cu*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated beneath the peduncle; as, the subpeduncular lobe of
the cerebellum.

SUBPEDUNCULATE
Sub`pe*dun"cu*late, a. (Bot. & Zool.)

Defn: Supported on, or growing from, a very short stem; having a
short peduncle.

SUBPELLUCID
Sub`pel*lu"cid, a.

Defn: Somewhat pellucid; nearly pellucid.

SUBPENA
Sub*pe"na, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Subpoena.

SUBPENTANGULAR
Sub`pen*tan"gu*lar, a.

Defn: Nearly or approximately pentangular; almost pentangular.

SUBPERICARDIAL
Sub*per`i*car"di*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the cardiac pericardium.

SUBPERIOSTEAL
Sub*per`i*os"te*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the periosteum. Subperiosteal operation (Surg.),
a removal of bone effected without taking away the periosteum.

SUBPERITONEAL
Sub*per`i*to"ne*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the peritoneal membrane.

SUBPETIOLAR
Sub*pet"i*o*lar, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Concealed within the base of the petiole, as the leaf buds of
the plane tree.

SUBPLEURAL
Sub*pleu"ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the pleural membrane.

SUBPODOPHYLLOUS
Sub*pod`o*phyl"lous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the podophyllous tissue of the horse's foot.

SUBPOENA
Sub*poe"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sub under + poena punishment. See
Pain.] (Law)

Defn: A writ commanding the attendance in court, as a witness, of the
person on whom it is served, under a penalty; the process by which a
defendant in equity is commanded to appear and answer the plaintiff's
bill. [Written also subpena.] Subpoena ad testificandum (. Etym:
[NL.] A writ used to procure the attendance of a witness for the
purpose of testifying.
 -- Subpoena duces tecum (. Etym: [NL.] A writ which requires a
witness to attend and bring certain documents.

SUBPOENA
Sub*poe"na, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subpoenaed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subpoenaing.] (Law)

Defn: To serve with a writ of subpoena; to command attendance in
court by a legal writ, under a penalty in case of disobedience.

SUBPOENAL
Sub*poe"nal, a.

Defn: Required or done under penalty. Gauden.

SUBPOLAR
Sub*po"lar, a.

Defn: Situated below the poles.

SUBPOLYGONAL
Sub`po*lyg"o*nal, a.

Defn: Approximately polygonal; somewhat or almost polygonal.

SUBPREHENSILE
Sub`pre*hen"sile, a.

Defn: Somewhat prehensile; prehensile in an inferior degree.

SUBPRIOR
Sub*pri"or, n. Etym: [Pref. sub + prior: cf. F. sous-prieur.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The vicegerent of a prior; a claustral officer who assists the
prior.

SUBPUBIC
Sub*pu"bic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or posterior to, the pubic bones.

SUBPULMONARY
Sub*pul"mo*na*ry, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the lungs.

SUBPURCHASER
Sub*pur"chas*er, n.

Defn: A purchaser who buys from a purchaser; one who buys at second
hand.

SUBPYRIFORM
Sub*pyr"i*form, a.

Defn: Somewhat pyriform.

SUBQUADRATE
Sub*quad"rate, a.

Defn: Nearly or approximately square; almost square.

SUBQUADRUPLE
Sub*quad"ru*ple, a.

Defn: Containing one part of four; in the ratio of one to four; as,
subquadruple proportion. Bp. Wilkins.

SUBQUINQUEFID
Sub*quin"que*fid, a.

Defn: Almost quinquefid; nearly quinquefid.

SUBQUINTUPLE
Sub*quin"tu*ple, a.

Defn: Having the ratio of one to five; as, subquintuple proportion.
Bp. Wilkins.

SUBREADER
Sub*read"er, n. (Law)

Defn: An under reader in the inns of court, who reads the texts of
law the reader is to discourse upon. [Eng.] Crabb.

SUBRECTOR
Sub*rec"tor, n.

Defn: An assistant restor. [Eng.]

SUBRELIGION
Sub`re*li"gion, n.

Defn: A secondary religion; a belief or principle held in a quasi
religious veneration.
Loyalty is in the English a subreligion. Emerson.

SUBREPTION
Sub*rep"tion, n. Etym: [L. subreptio, fr. subripere, subreptum, to
snatch or take away secretly: cf. F. subreption. See Surreptitious.]

Defn: The act of obtaining a favor by surprise, or by unfair
representation through suppression or fraudulent concealment of
facts. Bp. Hall.

SUBREPTITIOUS
Sub`rep*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. subreptitius. See Surreptitious.]

Defn: Surreptitious. [Obs.] -- Sub`rep*ti"tious*ly, adv. [Obs.]

SUBREPTIVE
Sub*rep"tive, a. Etym: [L. subreptivus.]

Defn: Surreptitious. [Obs.]

SUBRIGID
Sub*rig"id, a.

Defn: Somewhat rigid or stiff.

SUBRIGUOUS
Sub*rig"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. subriguus; sub under + riguus watered,
akin to rigare to water.]

Defn: Watered or wet beneath; well-watered. [Obs.] Blount.

SUBROGATE
Sub"ro*gate, v. t. Etym: [L. subrogatus, p.p. of subrogare. See
Surrogate.]

Defn: To put in the place of another; to substitute. Barrow.

SUBROGATION
Sub`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. subrogation, LL. subrogatio.]

Defn: The act of subrogating. Specifically: (Law)

Defn: The substitution of one person in the place of another as a
creditor, the new creditor succeeding to the rights of the former;
the mode by which a third person who pays a creditor succeeds to his
rights against the debtor. Bouvier. Burrill. Abbott.

SUBROTUND
Sub`ro*tund", a.

Defn: Somewhat rotund.

SUBSACRAL
Sub*sa"cral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the sacrum.

SUBSALINE
Sub`sa*line", a.

Defn: Moderately saline or salt.

SUBSALT
Sub"salt`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A basic salt. See the Note under Salt.

SUBSANNATION
Sub`san*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. subsannatio, fr. subsannare to deride
by mimicking gestures.]

Defn: Derision; mockery. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

SUBSCAPULAR; SUBSCAPULARY
Sub*scap"u*lar, Sub*scap"u*la*ry, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated beneath the scapula; infrascapular; as, the
subscapular muscle.

SUBSCRIBABLE
Sub*scrib"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being subscribed. [R.]

SUBSCRIBE
Sub*scribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subscribed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subscribing.] Etym: [L. subscribere, subscriptum; sub under +
scribere to write: cf. F. souscrire. See Scribe.]

1. To write underneath, as one's name; to sign (one's name) to a
document.
[They] subscribed their names under them. Sir T. More.

2. To sign with one's own hand; to give consent to, as something
written, or to bind one's self to the terms of, by writing one's name
beneath; as, parties subscribe a covenant or contract; a man
subscribes a bond.
All the bishops subscribed the sentence. Milman.

3. To attest by writing one's name beneath; as, officers subscribe
their official acts, and secretaries and clerks subscribe copies or
records.

4. To promise to give, by writing one's name with the amount; as,
each man subscribed ten dollars.

5. To sign away; to yield; to surrender. [Obs.] Shak.

6. To declare over one's signature; to publish. [Obs.]
Either or must shortly hear from him, or I will subscribe him a
coward. Shak.

SUBSCRIBE
Sub*scribe", v. i.

1. To sign one's name to a letter or other document. Shak.

2. To give consent to something written, by signing one's name;
hence, to assent; to agree.
So spake, so wished, much humbled Eve; but Fate Subscribed not.
Milton.

3. To become surely; -- with for. [R.] Shak.

4. To yield; to admit one's self to be inferior or in the wrong.
[Obs.]
I will subscribe, and say I wronged the duke. Shak.

5. To set one's name to a paper in token of promise to give a certain
sum.

6. To enter one's name for a newspaper, a book, etc.

SUBSCRIBER
Sub*scrib"er, n.

1. One who subscribes; one who contributes to an undertaking by
subscribing.

2. One who enters his name for a paper, book, map, or the like.
Dryden.

SUBSCRIPT
Sub"script, a. Etym: [L. subscriptus, p.p. See Subscribe.]

Defn: Written below or underneath; as, iota subscript. (See under
Iota.) Specifically (Math.), said of marks, figures, or letters
(suffixes), written below and usually to the right of other letters
to distinguish them; as, a, n, 2, in the symbols Xa, An, Y2. See
Suffix, n., 2, and Subindex.

SUBSCRIPT
Sub"script, n.

Defn: Anything written below. Bentley.

SUBSCRIPTION
Sub*scrip"tion, n. Etym: [L. subscriptio: cf. F. souscription.]

1. The act of subscribing.

2. That which is subscribed. Specifically:
(a) A paper to which a signature is attached.
(b) The signature attached to a paper.
(c) Consent or attestation by underwriting the name.
(d) Sum subscribed; amount of sums subscribed; as, an individual
subscription to a fund.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: The acceptance of articles, or other tests tending to promote
uniformity; esp. (Ch. of Eng.), formal assent to the Thirty-nine
Articles and the Book of Common Prayer, required before ordination.

4. Submission; obedience. [Obs.]
You owe me no subscription. Shak.

5. (Pharm.)

Defn: That part of a prescription which contains the direction to the
apothecary.

Defn: A method of purchasing items produced periodically in a series,
as newspapers or magazines, in which a certain number of the items
are delivered as produced, without need for ordering each item
individually; also, the purchase thus executed.

Note: The right to attend a series of public performances of ballet,
opera, or music are also often sold by subscription. The payment for
a subscription may be made prior to delivery of any items (common
with magazines and performances), or after a certain number of the
items have been delivered (common with newspapers or works of art
produced in a series). 7. An application to purchase a certain number
of securities to be delivered when they are newly issued.

SUBSCRIPTIVE
Sub*scrip"tive, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a subscription, or signature. "The
subscriptive part." Richardson.
 -- Sub*scrip"tive*ly, adv.

SUBSECUTE
Sub"se*cute, v. t. Etym: [L. subsecutus, p.p. of subsequi. See
Subsequent.]

Defn: To follow closely, or so as to overtake; to pursue. [Obs.]
To follow and detain him, if by any possibility he could be
subsecuted and overtaken. E. Hall.

SUBSECUTIVE
Sub*sec"u*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. subsecutif.]

Defn: Following in a train or succession. [R.]

SUBSELLIUM
Sub*sel"li*um, n.; pl. Subsellia. Etym: [L.] (Eccl. Arch.)

Defn: One of the stalls of the lower range where there are two
ranges. See Illust. of Stall.

SUBSEMITONE
Sub*sem"i*tone, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The sensible or leading note, or sharp seventh, of any key;
subtonic.

SUBSENSIBLE
Sub*sen"si*ble, a.

Defn: Deeper than the reach of the senses. "That subsensible world."
Tyndall.

SUBSEPTUPLE
Sub*sep"tu*ple, a.

Defn: Having the ratio of one to seven. Bp. Wilkins.

SUBSEQUENCE; SUBSEQUENCY
Sub"se*quence, Sub"se*quen*cy, n.

Defn: The act or state of following; -- opposed to precedence.

SUBSEQUENT
Sub"se*quent, a. Etym: [L. subsequens, -entis, p.pr. of subsequi to
follow, succeed: cf. F. subsequent. See Sue to follow.]

1. Following in time; coming or being after something else at any
time, indefinitely; as, subsequent events; subsequent ages or years;
a period long subsequent to the foundation of Rome.

2. Following in order of place; succeeding; as, a subsequent clause
in a treaty. "The subsequent words come on before the precedent
vanish." Bacon.

SUBSEQUENTLY
Sub"se*quent*ly, adv.

Defn: At a later time; afterwards.

SUBSEROUS
Sub*se"rous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under a serous membrane.

SUBSERVE
Sub*serve", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subserved; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subserving.] Etym: [L. subservire; sub under + servire to serve. See
Serve.]

Defn: To serve in subordination or instrumentally; to be subservient
to; to help forward; to promote.
It is a great credit to know the ways of captivating Nature, and
making her subserve our purposes, than to have learned all the
intrigues of policy. Glanvill.

SUBSERVE
Sub*serve", v. i.

Defn: To be subservient or subordinate; to serve in an inferior
capacity.
Not made to rule, But to subserve where wisdom bears command. Milton.

SUBSERVIENCE; SUBSERVIENCY
Sub*serv"i*ence, Sub*serv"i*en*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being subservient; instrumental fitness
or use; hence, willingness to serve another's purposes; in a
derogatory sense, servility.
The body wherein appears much fitness, use, and subserviency to
infinite functions. Bentley.
There is a regular subordination and subserviency among all the parts
to beneficial ends. Cheyne.

SUBSERVIENT
Sub*serv"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. subserviens, -entis, p.pr. See
Subserve.]

Defn: Fitted or disposed to subserve; useful in an inferior capacity;
serving to promote some end; subordinate; hence, servile, truckling.
Scarce ever reading anything which he did not make subservient in one
kind or other. Bp. Fell.
These ranks of creatures are subservient one to another. Ray.
Their temporal ambition was wholly subservient to their proselytizing
spirit. Burke.

SUBSERVIENTLY
Sub*serv"i*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a subservient manner.

SUBSESQUI-
Sub*ses"qui-. Etym: [Pref. sub- + sesqui-.] (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix (also used adjectively) denoting the combination of
constituents (especially electro-negative and electro-positive
bodies) in the proportion of two to three; as, a subsesqui acetate,
i. e., a salt having two equivalents of acetic acid to three of the
base.

SUBSEXTUPLE
Sub*sex"tu*ple, a.

Defn: Having the ratio of one to six; as, a subsextuple proportion.
Bp. Wilkins.

SUBSIDE
Sub*side", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Subsided; p. pr. & vb. n. Subsiding.]
Etym: [L. subsidere; sub under, below + sidere to sit down, to
settle; akin to sedere to sit, E. sit. See Sit.]

1. To sink or fall to the bottom; to settle, as lees.

2. To tend downward; to become lower; to descend; to sink. "Heaven's
subsiding hill." Dryden.

3. To fall into a state of quiet; to cease to rage; to be calmed; to
settle down; to become tranquil; to abate; as, the sea subsides; the
tumults of war will subside; the fever has subsided. "In cases of
danger, pride and envy naturally subside." C. Middleton.

Syn.
 -- See Abate.

SUBSIDENCE; SUBSIDENCY
Sub*sid"ence, Sub*sid"en*cy, n. Etym: [L. subsidens, -entis, p.pr. of
subsidere. See Subside.]

Defn: The act or process of subsiding.
The subdual or subsidence of the more violent passions. Bp.
Warburton.

SUBSIDIARILY
Sub*sid"i*a*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a subsidiary manner; so as to assist.

SUBSIDIARY
Sub*sid"i*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. subsidiarius: cf. F. subsidiaire. See
Subsidy.]

1. Furnishing aid; assisting; auxiliary; helping; tributary;
especially, aiding in an inferior position or capacity; as, a
subsidiary stream.
Chief ruler and principal head everywhere, not suffragant and
subsidiary. Florio.
They constituted a useful subsidiary testimony of another state of
existence. Coleridge.

2. Of or pertaining to a subsidy; constituting a subsidy; being a
part of, or of the nature of, a subsidy; as, subsidiary payments to
an ally.
George the Second relied on his subsidiary treaties. Ld. Mahon.

SUBSIDIARY
Sub*sid"i*a*ry, n.; pl. Subsidiaries (.

Defn: One who, or that which, contributes aid or additional supplies;
an assistant; an auxiliary. Hammond.

SUBSIDIZE
Sub"si*dize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subsidized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subsidizing.] Etym: [From Subsidy.]

Defn: To furnish with a subsidy; to purchase the assistance of by the
payment of a subsidy; to aid or promote, as a private enterprise,
with public money; as, to subsidize a steamship line.
He employed the remittances from Spain to subsidize a large body of
German mercenaries. Prescott.

SUBSIDY
Sub"si*dy, n.; pl. Subsidies. Etym: [L. subsidium the troops
stationed in reserve in the third line of battlem reserve, support,
help, fr. subsidere to sit down, lie in wait: cf. F. subside. See
Subside.]

1. Support; aid; cooperation; esp., extraordinary aid in money
rendered to the sovereign or to a friendly power.
They advised the king to send speedy aids, and with much alacrity
granted a great rate of subsidy. Bacon.

Note: Subsidies were taxes, not immediately on on property, but on
persons in respect of their reputed estates, after the nominal rate
of 4s. the pound for lands, and 2s. 8d. for goods. Blackstone.

2. Specifically: A sum of money paid by one sovereign or nation to
another to purchase the cooperation or the neutrality of such
sovereign or nation in war.

3. A grant from the government, from a municipal corporation, or the
like, to a private person or company to assist the establishment or
support of an enterprise deemed advantageous to the public; a
subvention; as, a subsidy to the owners of a line of ocean
steamships.

Syn.
 -- Tribute; grant.
 -- Subsidy, Tribute. A subsidy is voluntary; a tribute is exacted.

SUBSIGN
Sub*sign", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subsigned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subsigning.] Etym: [L. subsignare; sub under + signare to mark: cf.
F. soussigner. See Sign.]

Defn: To sign beneath; to subscribe. [R.] Camden.

SUBSIGNATION
Sub`sig*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. subsignatio.]

Defn: The act of writing the name under something, as for
attestation. [R.] Shelton.

SUBSILICATE
Sub*sil"i*cate, n.

Defn: A basic silicate.

SUBSIST
Sub*sist", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Subsisted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subsisting.] Etym: [L. subsistere to stand still, stay, remain alive;
sub under + sistere to stand, to cause to stand, from stare to stand:
cf. F. subsister. See Stand.]

1. To be; to have existence; to inhere.
And makes what happiness we justly call, Subsist not in the good of
one, but all. Pope.

2. To continue; to retain a certain state.
Firm we subsist, yet possible to swerve. Milton.

3. To be maintained with food and clothing; to be supported; to live.
Milton.
To subsist on other men's charity. Atterbury.

SUBSIST
Sub*sist", v. t.

Defn: To support with provisions; to feed; to maintain; as, to
subsist one's family.
He laid waste the adjacent country in order to render it more
difficult for the enemy to subsist their army. Robertson.

SUBSISTENCE
Sub*sist"ence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. subsistance, L. subsistentia.]

1. Real being; existence.
Not only the things had subsistence, but the very images were of some
creatures existing. Stillingfleet.

2. Inherency; as, the subsistence of qualities in bodies.

3. That which furnishes support to animal life; means of support;
provisions, or that which produces provisions; livelihood; as, a
meager subsistence.
His viceroy could only propose to himself a comfortable subsistence
out of the plunder of his province. Addison.

4. (Theol.)

Defn: Same as Hypostasis, 2. Hooker.

SUBSISTENCE DEPARTMENT
Sub*sist"ence De*part"ment. (Mil.)

Defn: A staff department of the United States army charged, under the
supervision of the Chief of Staff, with the purchasing and issuing to
the army of such supplies as make up the  ration. It also supplies,
for authorized sales, certain articles of food and other minor
stores. It is commanded by any officer of the rank of brigadier
general, called commissary general, and the department is popularly
called the Commissary Department.

SUBSISTENCY
Sub*sist"en*cy, n.

Defn: Subsistence. [R.]

SUBSISTENT
Sub*sist"ent, a. Etym: [L. subsistens, p.pr. See Subsist.]

1. Having real being; as, a subsistent spirit.

2. Inherent; as, qualities subsistent in matter.

SUBSIZAR
Sub*si"zar, n.

Defn: An under sizar; a student of lower rank than a sizar.
[Cambridge Univ. Eng.]
Bid my subsizar carry my hackney to the buttery and give him his
bever. J. Fletcher.

SUBSOIL
Sub"soil`, n.

Defn: The bed, or stratum, of earth which lies immediately beneath
the surface soil. Subsoil plow, a plow having a share and standard
but no moldboard. It follows in the furrow made by an ordinary plow,
and loosens the soil to an additional depth without bringing it to
the surface. Knight.

SUBSOIL
Sub"soil`, v. t.

Defn: To turn up the subsoil of.

SUBSOLARY
Sub*so"la*ry, a.

Defn: Being under the sun; hence, terrestrial; earthly; mundane. [R.]

SUBSPECIES
Sub*spe"cies, n.

Defn: A group somewhat lessdistinct than speciesusually are, but
based on characters more important than those which characterize
ordinary varieties; often, a geographical variety or race.

SUBSPHENOIDAL
Sub`sphe*noid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under, or on the ventral side of, the body of the
sphenoid bone.

SUBSPHERICAL
Sub*spher"ic*al, a.

Defn: Nearly spherical; having a figure resembling that of a sphere.

SUBSPINOUS
Sub*spi"nous, a.
(a) (Anat.) Subvertebral.
(b) (Med.) Situated beneath a spinous process, as that of the
scapula; as, subspinous dislocation of the humerus.

SUBSTANCE
Sub"stance, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. substantia, fr. substare to be under
or present, to stand firm; sub under + stare to stand. See Stand.]

1. That which underlies all outward manifestations; substratum; the
permanent subject or cause of phenomena, whether material or
spiritual; that in which properties inhere; that which is real, in
distinction from that which is apparent; the abiding part of any
existence, in distinction from any accident; that which constitutes
anything what it is; real or existing essence.
These cooks, how they stamp, and strain, and grind, And turn
substance into accident! Chaucer.
Heroic virtue did his actions guide, And he the substance, not the
appearance, chose. Dryden.

2. The most important element in any existence; the characteristic
and essential components of anything; the main part; essential
import; purport.
This edition is the same in substance with the Latin. Bp. Burnet.
It is insolent in words, in manner; but in substance it is not only
insulting, but alarming. Burke.

3. Body; matter; material of which a thing is made; hence,
substantiality; solidity; firmness; as, the substance of which a
garment is made; some textile fabrics have little substance.

4. Material possessions; estate; property; resources.
And there wasted his substance with riotous living. Luke xv. 13.
Thy substance, valued at the highest rate, Can not amount unto a
hundred marks. Shak.
We are destroying many thousand lives, and exhausting our substance,
but not for our own interest. Swift.

5. (Theol.)

Defn: Same as Hypostasis, 2.

SUBSTANCE
Sub"stance, v. t.

Defn: To furnish or endow with substance; to supply property to; to
make rich. [Obs.]

SUBSTANCELESS
Sub"stance*less, a.

Defn: Having no substance; unsubstantial. [R.] Coleridge.

SUBSTANT
Sub"stant, a. Etym: [L. substans, -antis, p.pr. of substare to be
firm.]

Defn: Substantial; firm. [R.] "[The glacier's] substant ice." The
Century.

SUBSTANTIAL
Sub*stan"tial, a. Etym: [F. substantiel, L. substantialis.]

1. Belonging to substance; actually existing; real; as, substantial
life. Milton.
If this atheist would have his chance to be real and substantial
agent, he is more stupid than the vulgar. Bentley.

2. Not seeming or imaginary; not illusive; real; solid; true;
veritable.
If happinessbe a substantial good. Denham.
The substantial ornaments of virtue. L'Estrange.

3. Corporeal; material; firm. "Most ponderous and substantial
things." Shak.
The rainbow [appears to be] a large substantial arch. I. Watts.

4. Having good substance; strong; stout; solid; firm; as, substantial
cloth; a substantial fence or wall.

5. Possessed of goods or an estate; moderately wealthy; responsible;
as, a substantial freeholder. "Substantial yeomen and burghers." Sir
W. Scott.

SUBSTANTIALITY
Sub*stan`ti*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being substantial; corporiety;
materiality.
The soul is a stranger to such gross substantiality. Glanvill.

SUBSTANTIALIZE
Sub*stan"tial*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Substantialized; p. pr. & vb.
n. Substantializing.]

Defn: To make substantial.

SUBSTANTIALLY
Sub*stan"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a substantial manner; in substance; essentially.
In him all his Father shone, Substantially expressed. Milton.
The laws of this religion would make men, if they would truly observe
them, substantially religious toward God, chastle, and temperate.
Tillotson.

SUBSTANTIALNESS
Sub*stan"tial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being substantial; as, the
substantialness of a wall or column.

SUBSTANTIALS
Sub*stan"tials, n. pl.

Defn: Essential parts. Ayliffe.

SUBSTANTIATE
Sub*stan"ti*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Substantiated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Substantiating.]

1. To make to exist; to make real. Ayliffe.

2. To establish the existence or truth of by proof or competent
evidence; to verify; as, to substantiate a charge or allegation; to
substantiate a declaration.
Observation is, in turn, wanted to direct and substantiate the course
of experiment. Coleridge.

SUBSTANTIATION
Sub*stan`ti*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of substantiating or proving; evidence; proof.

SUBSTANTIVAL
Sub`stan*ti"val, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a substantive; of the nature of
substantive.
 -- Sub`stan*ti"val*ly, adv.

SUBSTANTIVE
Sub"stan*tive, a. Etym: [L. substantivus: cf. F. substantif.]

1. Betokening or expressing existence; as, the substantive verb, that
is, the verb to be.

2. Depending on itself; independent.
He considered how sufficient and substantive this land was to
maintain itself without any aid of the foreigner. Bacon.

3. Enduring; solid; firm; substantial.
Strength and magnitude are qualities which impress the imagination in
a powerful and substantive manner. Hazlitt.

4. Pertaining to, or constituting, the essential part or principles;
as, the law substantive. Noun substantive (Gram.), a noun which
designates an object, material or immaterial; a substantive.
 -- Substantive color, one which communicates its color without the
aid of a mordant or base; -- opposed to adjective color.

SUBSTANTIVE
Sub"stan*tive, n. Etym: [Cf. F. substantif.] (Gram.)

Defn: A noun or name; the part of speech which designates something
that exists, or some object of thought, either material or
immaterial; as, the words man, horse, city, goodness, excellence, are
substantives.

SUBSTANTIVE
Sub"stan*tive, v. t.

Defn: To substantivize. [R.] Cudworth.

SUBSTANTIVELY
Sub"stan*tive*ly, adv.

1. In a substantive manner; in substance; essentially.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: As a substantive, name, or noun; as, an adjective may be used
substantively.

SUBSTANTIVENESS
Sub"stan*tive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being substantive.

SUBSTANTIVIZE
Sub"stan*tiv*ize, v. t.

Defn: To convert into a substantive; as, to substantivize an
adjective. Fitzed. Hall.

SUBSTILE
Sub"stile`, n. (Dialing)

Defn: See Substyle.

SUBSTITUENT
Sub*stit"u*ent, n. Etym: [L. substituens, p.pr. See Substitute.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Any atom, group, or radical substituted for another, or
entering a molecule in place of some other part which is removed.

SUBSTITUTE
Sub"stit"ute, n. Etym: [L. substitutus, p.p. of substituere to put
under, put in the place of; sub under + statuere to put, place: cf.
F. substitut. See Statute.]

Defn: One who, or that which, is substituted or put in the place of
another; one who acts for another; that which stands in lieu of
something else; specifically (Mil.),

Defn: a person who enlists for military service in the place of a
conscript or drafted man.
Hast thou not made me here thy substitute Milton.
Ladies [in Shakespeare's age] . . . wore masks as the sole substitute
known to our ancestors for the modern parasol. De Quincey.

SUBSTITUTE
Sub"stit"ute, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Substituted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Substituting.] Etym: [See Substitute, n.]

Defn: To put in the place of another person or thing; to exchange.
Some few verses are inserted or substituted in the room of others.
Congreve.

SUBSTITUTED
Sub"stit"uted, a.

1. Exchanged; put in the place of another.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Containing substitutions or replacements; having been subjected
to the process of substitution, or having some of its parts replaced;
as, alcohol is a substituted water; methyl amine is a substituted
ammonia. Substituted executor (Law), an executor appointed to act in
place of one removed or resigned.

SUBSTITUTION
Sub`sti*tu"tion, n. Etym: [L. substitutio: cf. F. substitution.]

1. The act of substituting or putting one person or thing in the
place of another; as, the substitution of an agent, attorney, or
representative to act for one in his absense; the substitution of
bank notes for gold and silver as a circulating medium.

2. The state of being substituted for another.

3. The office or authority of one acting for another; delegated
authority. [R.] Shak.

4. (Civil Law)

Defn: The designation of a person in a will to take a devise or
legacy, either on failure of a former devisee or legatee by
incapacity or unwillingness to accept, or after him. Burrill.

5. (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine that Christ suffered vicariously, being
substituted for the sinner, and that his sufferings were expiatory.

6. (Chem.)

Defn: The act or process of substituting an atom or radical for
another atom or radical; metethesis; also, the state of being so
substituted. See Metathesis.

SUBSTITUTIONAL
Sub`sti*tu"tion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to substitution; standing in the place of
another; substituted.
 -- Sub`sti*tu"tion*al*ly, adv.

SUBSTITUTIONARY
Sub`sti*tu"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to substitution; substitutional.

SUBSTITUTIVE
Sub"sti*tu`tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. substitutif, L. substitutivus
conditional.]

Defn: Tending to afford or furnish a substitute; making substitution;
capable of being substituted. Bp. Wilkins.

SUBSTRACT
Sub*stract", v. t. Etym: [F. suostraire; L. subtus below (from sub
under) + trahere to draw. See Substract.]

Defn: To subtract; to withdraw. [Obs.] Barrow.

SUBSTRACTION
Sub*strac"tion, n. Etym: [OF. substraction, F. soustraction. See
Subtract.]

1. Subtraction; deduction. [Obs.]

2. (Law)

Defn: See Subtraction, 3.

SUBSTRACTOR
Sub*stract"or, n.

1. One who subtracts.

2. A detractor; a slanderer. [Obs.] Shak.

SUBSTRATE
Sub"strate, n.

Defn: A substratum. [R.]

SUBSTRATE
Sub"strate, a.

Defn: Having very slight furrows. [R.]

SUBSTRATE
Sub*strate", v. t. Etym: [L. substratus, p.p. of substrahere. See
Substratum.]

Defn: To strew or lay under anything. [Obs.]
The melted glass being supported by the substrated sand. Boyle.

SUBSTRATUM
Sub*stra"tum, n.; pl. Substrata. Etym: [L. substratus, p.p. of
substernere to strew under; sub under + sternere to strew. See
Stratum.]

1. That which is laid or spread under; that which underlies
something, as a layer of earth lying under another; specifically
(Agric.), the subsoil.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: The permanent subject of qualities or cause of phenomena;
substance.

SUBSTRUCT
Sub*struct", v. t. Etym: [See Substruction.]

Defn: To build beneath something; to lay as the foundation. [R.]
He substructs the religion of Asia as the base. Emerson.

SUBSTRUCTION
Sub*struc"tion, n. Etym: [L. substructio, fr. substruere,
substructum, to build beneath; sub under + struere to build.] (Arch.)

Defn: Underbuilding; the foundation, or any preliminary structure
intended to raise the lower floor or basement of a building above the
natural level of the ground.
It is a magnificent strong building, with a substruction very
remarkable. Evelyn.

SUBSTRUCTURE
Sub*struc"ture, n. Etym: [Pref. sub- + structure.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Substruction.

2. An under structure; a foundation; groundwork.

SUBSTYLAR
Sub*sty"lar, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the substyle.

SUBSTYLE
Sub"style`, n. (Dialing)

Defn: A right line on which the style, or gnomon, of a dial is
erected; being the common section of the face of the dial and a plane
perpendicular to it passing through the style. [Written also
substile.] Hutton.

SUBSULPHATE
Sub*sul"phate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A sulphate with an excess of the base.

SUBSULPHIDE
Sub*sul"phide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A nonacid compound consisting of one equivalent of sulphur and
more than one equivalent of some other body, as a metal.

SUBSULTIVE
Sub*sul"tive, a.

Defn: Subsultory. [R.] Berkley.

SUBSULTORY
Sub*sul"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. subsilire, subsultum, to spring up; sub
under + salire to leap.]

Defn: Bounding; leaping; moving by sudden leaps or starts. [R.] --
Sub*sul"to*ri*ly, adv. [R.]
Flippancy opposed to solemnity, the subsultory to the continuous, --
these are the two frequent extremities to which the French manner
betrays men. De Quincey.

SUBSULTUS
Sub*sul"tus, n. Etym: [NL. See Subsultory.] (Med.)

Defn: A starting, twitching, or convulsive motion.

SUBSUMABLE
Sub*sum"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being subsumed. J. B. Stallo.

SUBSUME
Sub*sume", v. t. Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. sumere to take.]

Defn: To take up into or under, as individual under species, species
under genus, or particular under universal; to place (any one
cognition) under another as belonging to it; to include under
something else.
To subsume one proposition under another. De Quincey.
A principle under which one might subsume men's most strenuous
efforts after righteousness. W. Pater.

SUBSUMPTION
Sub*sump"tion, n.

1. The act of subsuming, or of including under another.
The first act of consciousness was a subsumption of that of which we
were conscious under this notion. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. That which is subsumed, as the minor clause or premise of a
syllogism.
But whether you see cause to go against the rule, or the subsumption
under the rule. De Quincey.

SUBSUMPTIVE
Sub*sump"tive, a.

Defn: Relating to, or containing, a subsumption. Coleridge.

SUBTANGENT
Sub*tan"gent, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The part of the axis contained between the ordinate and tangent
drawn to the same point in a curve.

SUBTARTAREAN
Sub`tar*ta"re*an, a.

Defn: Being or living under Tartarus; infernal. "Subtartarean
powers." Pope.

SUBTECTACLE
Sub*tec"ta*cle, n. Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. tectum a roof.]

Defn: A space under a roof; a tabernacle; a dwelling. [Obs.] Davies
(Holy Roode).

SUBTEGULANEOUS
Sub*teg`u*la"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. subtegulaneus; sub under + tegulare
tiles for a roof.]

Defn: Under the roof or eaves; within doors. [R.]

SUBTENANT
Sub*ten"ant, n. (Law)

Defn: One who rents a tenement, or land, etc., of one who is also a
tenant; an undertenant.

SUBTEND
Sub*tend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subtended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subtending.] Etym: [L. subtendere; sub under + tendere to stretch,
extend. See Tend.]

Defn: To extend under, or be opposed to; as, the line of a triangle
which subtends the right angle; the chord subtends an arc.

SUBTENSE
Sub*tense", n. Etym: [L. subtendere, subtentum. See Subtend, Tense,
a.] (Geom.)

Defn: A line subtending, or stretching across; a chord; as, the
subtense of an arc.

SUBTEPID
Sub*tep"id, a.

Defn: Slightly tepid.

SUBTERETE
Sub`te*rete", a.

Defn: Somewhat terete.

SUBTERFLUENT; SUBTERFLUOUS
Sub*ter"flu*ent, Sub*ter"flu*ous, a. Etym: [L. subterfluens, p.pr. of
subterfluere to flow beneath; subter under + fluere to flow.]

Defn: Running under or beneath. [R.]

SUBTERFUGE
Sub"ter*fuge, n. Etym: [F., from LL. subterfugium, fr. L.
subterfugere to flee secretly, to escape; subter under + fugere to
flee. See Fugitive.]

Defn: That to which one resorts for escape or concealment; an
artifice employed to escape censure or the force of an argument, or
to justify opinions or conduct; a shift; an evasion.
Affect not little shifts and subterfuges, to avoid the force of an
argument. I. Watts.
By a miserable subterfuge, they hope to render this position safe by
rendering it nugatory. Burke.

SUBTERRANE
Sub"ter*rane, n. Etym: [Cf. L. subterraneum, F. souterrain. See
Subterranean.]

Defn: A cave or room under ground. [R.] J. Bryant.

SUBTERRANEAL
Sub`ter*ra"ne*al, a.

Defn: Subterranean. [Obs.]

SUBTERRANEAN; SUBTERRANEOUS
Sub`ter*ra"ne*an, Sub`ter*ra"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. subterraneus; sub
under + terra earth. See Terrace.]

Defn: Being or lying under the surface of the earth; situated within
the earth, or under ground; as, subterranean springs; a subterraneous
passage.
 -- Sub`ter*ra"ne*ous*ly, adv.

SUBTERRANITY
Sub`ter*ran"i*ty, n.

Defn: A place under ground; a subterrany. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SUBTERRANY
Sub"ter*ra*ny, a.

Defn: Subterranean. [Obs.] Bacon.
 -- n.

Defn: A subterranean place. [Obs.]

SUBTERRENE
Sub`ter*rene", a. Etym: [L. subterrenus, equiv. to subterraneus.]

Defn: Subterraneous. [Obs.]

SUBTERRESTRIAL
Sub`ter*res"tri*al, a.

Defn: Subterranean.

SUBTHALAMIC
Sub`tha*lam"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the optic thalamus.

SUBTILE
Sub"tile, a. Etym: [L. subtilis. See Subtile.]

1. Thin; not dense or gross; rare; as, subtile air; subtile vapor; a
subtile medium.

2. Delicately constituted or constructed; nice; fine; delicate;
tenuous; finely woven. "A sotil [subtile] twine's thread." Chaucer.
More subtile web Arachne can not spin. Spenser.
I do distinguish plain Each subtile line of her immortal face. Sir J.
Davies.

3. Acute; piercing; searching.
The slow disease and subtile pain. Prior.

5. Characterized by nicety of discrimination; discerning; delicate;
refined; subtle. [In this sense now commonly written subtle.]
The genius of the Spanish people is exquisitely subtile, without
being at all acute; hence there is so much humor and so little wit in
their literature. The genius of the Italians, on the contrary, is
acute, profound, and sensual, but not subtile; hence what they think
to be humorous, is merely witty. Coleridge.
The subtile influence of an intellect like Emerson's. Hawthorne.

5. Sly; artful; cunning; crafty; subtle; as, a subtile person; a
subtile adversary; a subtile scheme. [In this sense now commonly
written subtle.]

Syn.
 -- Subtile, Acute. In acute the image is that of a needle's point;
in subtile that of a thread spun out to fineness. The acute intellect
pierces to its aim; the subtile (or subtle) intellect winds its way
through obstacles.
 -- Sub"tile*ly, adv.
 -- Sub"tile*ness, n.

SUBTILIATE
Sub*til"i*ate, v. t. Etym: [LL. subtiliare.]

Defn: To make thin or rare. [Obs.] Harvey.
 -- Sub`til*i*a"tion, n. [Obs.] Boyle.

SUBTILISM
Sub"til*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being subtile; subtility; subtlety.
The high orthodox subtilism of Duns Scotus. Milman.

SUBTILITY
Sub*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. subtilitas: cf. F. subtilite. See Subtle.]

Defn: Subtilty. [R.]

SUBTILIZATION
Sub`til*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. subtilization.]

1. The act of making subtile.

2. (Old Chem.)

Defn: The operation of making so volatile as to rise in steam or
vapor.

3. Refinement; subtlety; extreme attenuation.

SUBTILIZE
Sub"til*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subtilized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subtilizing.] Etym: [L. subtiliser.]

1. To make thin or fine; to make less gross or coarse.

2. To refine; to spin into niceties; as, to subtilize arguments.
Nor as yet have we subtilized ourselves into savages. Burke.

SUBTILIZE
Sub"til*ize, v. i.

Defn: To refine in argument; to make very nice distinctions. Milner.

SUBTILIZER
Sub"til*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who subtilizes.

SUBTILTY
Sub"til*ty, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. subtility.]

1. The quality or state of being subtile; thinness; fineness; as, the
subtility of air or light.

2. Refinement; extreme acuteness; subtlety.
Intelligible discourses are spoiled by too much subtility in nice
divisions. Locke.

3. Cunning; skill; craft. [Obs.]
To learn a lewd man this subtility. Chaucer.

4. Slyness in design; artifice; guile; a cunning design or artifice;
a trick; subtlety.
O full of all subtility and all mischief. Acts xiii. 10.

Note: In senses 2, 3, and 4 the word is more commonly written
subtlety.

SUBTLE
Sub"tle, a. [Compar. Subtler; superl. Subtlest.] Etym: [OE. sotil,
subtil, OF. soutil, later subtil, F. subtil, L. subtilis; probably,
originally, woven fine, and fr. sub under + tela a web, fr. texere to
weave. See Text, and cf. Subtile.]

1. Sly in design; artful; cunning; insinuating; subtile; -- applied
to persons; as, a subtle foe. "A subtle traitor." Shak.

2. Cunningly devised; crafty; treacherous; as, a subtle stratagem.

3. Characterized by refinement and niceness in drawing distinctions;
nicely discriminating; -- said of persons; as, a subtle logician;
refined; tenuous; sinuous; insinuating; hence, penetrative or
pervasive; -- said of the mind; its faculties, or its operations; as,
a subtle intellect; a subtle imagination; a subtle process of
thought; also, difficult of apprehension; elusive.
Things remote from use, obscure and subtle. Milton.

4. Smooth and deceptive. [Obs.]
Like to a bowl upon a subtle ground [bowling ground]. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Artful; crafty; cunning; shrewd; sly; wily. Subtle is the most
comprehensive of these epithets and implies the finest intellectual
quality. See Shrewd, and Cunning.

SUBTLENESS
Sub"tle*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being subtle; subtlety.

SUBTLETY
Sub"tle*ty, n.; pl. Subtleties. Etym: [OE. sotelte, sutilte, OF.
sotillete, L. subtilitas. See Subtle, and cf. Subtility.]

1. The quality or state of being subtle, or sly; cunning; craftiness;
artfulness.
The fox which lives by subtlety. Shak.

2. Nice discernment with delicacy of mental action; nicety of
discrimination.

3. Something that is sly, crafty, or delusive.
Unlearned in the world's false subtleties. Shak.

SUBTLY
Sub"tly, adv.

Defn: In a subtle manner; slyly; artfully; cunningly.
Thou seest how subtly to detain thee I devise. Milton.

2. Nicely; delicately.
In the nice bee what sense so subtly true. Pope.
Subtly communicating itself to my sensibilities, but evading the
analysis of my mind. Hawthorne.

3. Deceitfully; delusively. [Obs.] Shak.

SUBTONIC
Sub*ton"ic, a. (Phonetics)

Defn: Applied to, or distinguishing, a speech element consisting of
tone, or proper vocal sound, not pure as in the vowels, but dimmed
and otherwise modified by some kind of obstruction in the oral or the
nasal passage, and in some cases with a mixture of breath sound; -- a
term introduced by Dr. James Rush in 1833. See Guide to
Pronunciation, 155, 199-202.

SUBTONIC
Sub*ton"ic, n.

1. (Phonetics)

Defn: A subtonic sound or element; a vocal consonant, as b, d, g, n,
etc.; a subvocal.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The seventh tone of the scale, or that immediately below the
tonic; -- called also subsemitone.

SUBTORRID
Sub*tor"rid, a.

Defn: Nearly torrid.

SUBTRACT
Sub*tract", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subtracted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subtracting.] Etym: [L. subtractus, p.p. of subtrahere to draw from
beneath, withdraw, remove; sub under + trahere to draw. See Trace, v.
t., and cf. Substract.]

Defn: To withdraw, or take away, as a part from the whole; to deduct;
as, subtract 5 from 9, and the remainder is 4.

SUBTRACTER
Sub*tract"er, n.

1. One who subtracts.

2. The subtrahend. [Obs.]

SUBTRACTION
Sub*trac"tion, n. Etym: [L. subtractio a drawing back. See Subtract,
and cf. Substraction.]

1. The act or operation of subtracting or taking away a part.

2. (Math.)

Defn: The taking of a lesser number or quantity from a greater of the
same kind or denomination; an operation for finding the difference
between two numbers or quantities.

3. (Law)

Defn: The withdrawing or withholding from a person of some right to
which he is entitled by law.

Note: Thus the subtraction of conjugal rights is when either the
husband or wife withdraws from the other and lives separate without
sufficient reason. The subtraction of a legacy is the withholding or
detailing of it from the legatee by the executor. In like manner, the
withholding of any service, rent, duty, or custom, is a subtraction,
for which the law gives a remedy. Blackstone.

SUBTRACTIVE
Sub*trac"tive, a.

1. Tending, or having power, to subtract.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Having the negative sign, or sign minus.

SUBTRAHEND
Sub"tra*hend`, n. Etym: [L. subtrahendus that is to be subtracted,
p.fut.pess. of subtrahere. See Subtract.] (Math.)

Defn: The sum or number to be subtracted, or taken from another.

SUBTRANSLUCENT
Sub`trans*lu"cent, a.

Defn: Not perfectly translucent.

SUBTRANSPARENT
Sub`trans*pa"rent, a.

Defn: Not perfectly transparent.

SUBTREASURER
Sub*treas"ur*er, n.

Defn: The public officer who has charge of a subtreasury. [U. S.]

SUBTREASURY
Sub*treas"ur*y, n.; pl. Subtreasuries (.

Defn: A subordinate treasury, or place of deposit; as, the United
States subtreasury at New York. [U. S.]

SUBTRIANGULAR
Sub`tri*an"gu*lar, a.

Defn: Nearly, but not perfectly, triangular. Darwin.

SUBTRIBE
Sub"tribe`, n. (Bot. & Zool.)

Defn: A division of a tribe; a group of genera of a little lower rank
than a tribe.

SUBTRIHEDRAL
Sub`tri*he"dral, a.

Defn: Approaching the form of a three-sided pyramid; as, the
subtrihedral crown of a tooth. Owen.

SUBTRIPLE
Sub*tri"ple, a. (Math.)

Defn: Containing a third, or one part to three. Bp. Wilkins.

SUBTRIPLICATE
Sub*trip"li*cate, a. (Math.)

Defn: Expressed by the cube root; -- said especially of ratios.
Subtriplicate ratio, the ratio of the cube root; thus, the
subtriplicate ratio of a to b is cube roota to cube rootb, or cube
roota/b.

SUBTROPICAL
Sub*trop"ic*al, a.

Defn: Nearly tropical.

SUBTRUDE
Sub*trude", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subtruded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subtruding.] Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. trudere to thrust.]

Defn: To place under; to insert. [R.]

SUBTURRICULATE
Sub`tur*ric"u*late, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Somewhat turriculate.

SUBTUTOR
Sub*tu"tor, n.

Defn: An under tutor.

SUBTYPICAL
Sub*typ"ic*al, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Deviating somewhat from the type of a species, genus, or other
group; slightly aberrant.

SUBULATE; SUBULATED
Su"bu*late, Su"bu*la`ted, a. Etym: [NL. subulatus, fr. L. subula an
awl.]

Defn: Very narrow, and tapering gradually to a fine point from a
broadish base; awl-shaped; linear.

SUBULICORNES
Su`bu*li*cor"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. subula an awl + cornu
horn.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of insects having slender or subulate antenn?. The
dragon flies and May flies are examples.

SUBULIFORM
Su"bu*li*form, a.

Defn: Subulate.

SUBULIPALP
Su"bu*li*palp`, n. Etym: [L. subula an awl + E. palp.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of a group of carabid beetles having slender palpi.

SUBUMBONAL
Sub`um*bo"nal, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Beneath or forward of the umbos of a bivalve shell.

SUBUMBRELLA
Sub`um*brel"la, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The integument of the under surface of the bell, or disk-shaped
body, of a jellyfish.

SUBUNDATION
Sub`un*da"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. unda a wave.]

Defn: A flood; a deluge. [Obs.] Huloet.

SUBUNGUAL
Sub*un"gual, a.

Defn: Under the nail or hoof.

SUBURB
Sub"urb, n. Etym: [L. suburbium; sub under, below, near + urbs a
city. See Urban.]

1. An outlying part of a city or town; a smaller place immediately
adjacent to a city; in the plural, the region which is on the
confines of any city or large town; as, a house stands in the
suburbs; a garden situated in the suburbs of Paris. "In the suburbs
of a town." Chaucer.
[London] could hardly have contained less than thirty or forty
thousand souls within its walls; and the suburbs were very populous.
Hallam.

2. Hence, the confines; the outer part; the environment. "The suburbs
. . . of sorrow." Jer. Taylor.
The suburb of their straw-built citadel. Milton.
Suburb roister, a rowdy; a loafer. [Obs.] Milton.

SUBURBAN
Sub*ur"ban, a. Etym: [L. suburbanus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to suburbs; inhabiting, or being in, the
suburbs of a city. "Suburban taverns." Longfellow.
Suburban villas, highway-side retreats, . . . Delight the citizen.
Cowper.

SUBURBAN
Sub*ur"ban, n.

Defn: One who dwells in the suburbs.

SUBURBED
Sub"urbed, a.

Defn: Having a suburb or suburbs on its outer part.

SUBURBIAL; SUBURBIAN
Sub*ur"bi*al, Sub*ur"bi*an, a.

Defn: Suburban. [Obs.] "Suburbial fields." Warton. "Suburbian muse."
Dryden.

SUBURBICARIAN; SUBURBICARY
Sub*ur`bi*ca"ri*an, Sub*ur"bi*ca*ry, a. Etym: [LL. suburbicarius,
equiv. to L. suburbanus: cf. F. suburbicaire. See Suburban.]

Defn: Being in the suburbs; -- applied to the six dioceses in the
suburbs of Rome subject to the pope as bishop of Rome.
The pope having stretched his authority beyond the bounds of his
suburbicarian precincts. Barrow.

SUBURETHRAL
Sub`u*re"thral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the urethra, or under its orifice.

SUBVAGINAL
Sub*vag"i*nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under or inside a sheath or vaginal membrane; as, the
subvaginal, or subdural, spaces about the optic nerve.

SUBVARIETY
Sub`va*ri"e*ty, n.; pl. -ties (.

Defn: A subordinate variety, or a division of a variety.

SUBVENE
Sub*vene", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Subvened; p. pr. & vb. n. Subvening.]
Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. venire to come. See Subvention.]

Defn: To come under, as a support or stay; to happen.
A future state must needs subvene to prevent the whole edifice from
falling into ruin. Bp. Warburton.

SUBVENTANEOUS
Sub`ven*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. ventus wind.]

Defn: Produced by the wind. [Obs.]

SUBVENTION
Sub*ven"tion, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. subventio, fr. L. subvenire to
come up to one's assistance, to assist. See Souvenir, and cf.
Subvene.]

1. The act of coming under. "The subvention of a cloud." Stackhouse.

2. The act of relieving, as of a burden; support; aid; assistance;
help.

3. A government aid or bounty.

SUBVENTION
Sub*ven"tion, v. t.

Defn: To subventionize.

SUBVENTIONIZE
Sub*ven"tion*ize, v. t.

Defn: To come to the aid of; to subsidize; to support.

SUBVENTITIOUS
Sub`ven*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Helping; aiding; supporting. Urquhart.

SUBVERSE
Sub*verse", v. t. Etym: [L. subversus, p.p. of subvertere. See
Subvert.]

Defn: To subvert. [Obs.] Spenser.

SUBVERSION
Sub*ver"sion, n. Etym: [L. subversio: cf. F. subversion. See
Subvert.]

Defn: The act of overturning, or the state of being overturned;
entire overthrow; an overthrow from the foundation; utter ruin;
destruction; as, the subversion of a government; the subversion of
despotic power; the subversion of the constitution.
The subversion [by a storm] of woods and timber . . . through my
whole estate. Evelyn.
Laws have been often abused to the oppression and subversion of that
order they were intended to preserve. Rogers.

SUBVERSIONARY
Sub*ver"sion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Promoting destruction.

SUBVERSIVE
Sub*ver"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. subversif.]

Defn: Tending to subvert; having a tendency to overthrow and ruin.
Lying is a vice subversive of the very ends and design of
conversation. Rogers.

SUBVERT
Sub*vert", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Subverted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Subverting.] Etym: [L. subvertere, subversum; sub under + vertere to
turn: cf. F. subvertir. See Verse.]

1. To overturn from the foundation; to overthrow; to ruin utterly.
These are his substance, sinews, arms, and strength, With which he
yoketh your rebellious necks, Razeth your cities, and subverts your
towns. Shak.
This would subvert the principles of all knowledge. Locke.

2. To pervert, as the mind, and turn it from the truth; to corrupt;
to confound. 2 Tim. iii. 14.

Syn.
 -- To overturn; overthrow; destroy; invert; reverse; extinguish.

SUBVERT
Sub*vert", v. i.

Defn: To overthrow anything from the foundation; to be subversive.
They have a power given to them like that of the evil principle, to
subvert and destroy.

SUBVERTANT
Sub*vert"ant, a. (Her.)

Defn: Reserved. [R.]

SUBVERTEBRAL
Sub*ver"te*bral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated beneath, or on the ventral side of, the vertebral
column; situated beneath, or inside of, the endoskeleton; hypaxial;
hyposkeletal.

SUBVERTER
Sub*vert"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, subverts; an overthrower. Sir T. More.

SUBVERTIBLE
Sub*vert"i*ble, a.

Defn: That may be subverted.

SUBVITALIZED
Sub*vi"tal*ized, a.

Defn: Imperfectly vitalized; having naturally but little vital power
or energy.

SUBVOCAL
Sub*vo"cal, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Subtonic.

SUBWAY
Sub"way`, n.

Defn: An underground way or gallery; especially, a passage under a
street, in which water mains, gas mains, telegraph wires, etc., are
conducted.

SUBWORKER
Sub*work"er, n.

Defn: A subordinate worker or helper. South.

SUBZONAL
Sub*zon"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under a zone, or zona; -- applied to a membrane
between the zona radiata and the umbilical vesicle in the mammal
embryo.

SUBZYGOMATIC
Sub*zyg`o*mat"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated under the zygoma or zygomatic process.

SUCCADE
Suc"cade, n. Etym: [L. succus, sucus, juice: cf. F. succade a
sugarbox. Cf. Sucket.]

1. A sweetmeat. [Obs.] Holland.

2. pl. (Com.)

Defn: Sweetmeats, or preserves in sugar, whether fruit, vegetables,
or confections. Blakely. Succade gourd. (Bot.) Same as Vegetable
marrow, under Vegetable.

SUCCEDANE
Suc"ce*dane, n.

Defn: A succedaneum. [Obs.]

SUCCEDANEOUS
Suc`ce*da"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. succedaneus. See Succeed.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or acting as, a succedaneum; supplying the place
of something else; being, or employed as, a substitute for another.
Sir T. Browne.

SUCCEDANEUM
Suc`ce*da"ne*um, n.; pl. Succedanea. Etym: [NL. See Succedaneous.]

Defn: One who, or that which, succeeds to the place of another; that
which is used for something else; a substitute; specifically (Med.),

Defn: a remedy used as a substitute for another.
In lieu of me, you will have a very charming succedaneum, Lady
Harriet Stanhope. Walpole.

SUCCEED
Suc*ceed", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Succeeded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Succeeding.] Etym: [L. succedere, successum; sub under + cedere to
go, to go along, approach, follow, succeed: cf. F. succeder. See
Cede, and cf. Success.]

1. To follow in order; to come next after; hence, to take the place
of; as, the king's eldest son succeeds his father on the throne;
autumn succeeds summer.
As he saw him nigh succeed. Spenser.

2. To fall heir to; to inherit. [Obs. & R.] Shak.

3. To come after; to be subsequent or consequent to; to follow; to
pursue.
Destructive effects . . . succeeded the curse. Sir T. Browne.

4. To support; to prosper; to promote. [R.]
Succeed my wish and second my design. Dryden.

SUCCEED
Suc*ceed", v. i.

1. To come in the place of another person, thing, or event; to come
next in the usual, natural, or prescribed course of things; to
follow; hence, to come next in the possession of anything; -- often
with to.
If the father left only daughters, they equally succeeded to him in
copartnership. Sir M. Hale.
Enjoy till I return Short pleasures; for long woes are to succeed!
Milton.

2. Specifically: To ascend the throne after the removal the death of
the occupant.
No woman shall succeed in Salique land. Shak.

3. To descend, as an estate or an heirloom, in the same family; to
devolve. Shak.

4. To obtain the object desired; to accomplish what is attempted or
intended; to have a prosperous issue or termination; to be
successful; as, he succeeded in his plans; his plans succeeded.
It is almost impossible for poets to succeed without ambition.
Dryden.
Spenser endeavored it in Shepherd's Kalendar; but neither will it
succeed in English. Dryden.

5. To go under cover. [A latinism. Obs.]
Will you to the cooler cave succeed! Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To follow; pursue. See Follow.

SUCCEEDANT
Suc*ceed"ant, a. (Her.)

Defn: Succeeding one another; following.

SUCCEEDER
Suc*ceed"er, n.

Defn: A successor. Shak. Tennyson.

SUCCEEDING
Suc*ceed"ing, n.

Defn: The act of one who, or that which, succeeds; also, that which
succeeds, or follows after; consequence. Shak.

SUCCENTOR
Suc"cen*tor, n. Etym: [LL., an accompanier in singing, fr. succinere
to sing, to accompany; sub under, after + canere to sing.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A subchanter.

SUCCESS
Suc*cess", n. Etym: [L. successus: cf. F. succes. See Succeed.]

1. Act of succeeding; succession. [Obs.]
Then all the sons of these five brethren reigned By due success.
Spenser.

2. That which comes after; hence, consequence, issue, or result, of
an endeavor or undertaking, whether good or bad; the outcome of
effort.
Men . . . that are like to do that, that is committed to them, and to
report back again faithfully the success. Bacon.
Perplexed and troubled at his bad success The tempter stood. Milton.

3. The favorable or prosperous termination of anything attempted; the
attainment of a proposed object; prosperous issue.
Dream of success and happy victory! Shak.
Or teach with more success her son The vices of the time to shun.
Waller.
Military successes, above all others, elevate the minds of a people.
Atterbury.

4. That which meets with, or one who accomplishes, favorable results,
as a play or a player. [Colloq.]

SUCCESSARY
Suc"ces*sa*ry, n.

Defn: Succession. [Obs.]
My peculiar honors, not derived From successary, but purchased with
my blood. Beau. & Fl.

SUCCESSFUL
Suc*cess"ful, a.

Defn: Resulting in success; assuring, or promotive of, success;
accomplishing what was proposed; having the desired effect; hence,
prosperous; fortunate; happy; as, a successful use of medicine; a
successful experiment; a successful enterprise.
Welcome, nephews, from successful wars. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Happy; prosperous; fortunate; auspicious; lucky. See Fortunate.
 -- Suc*cess"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Suc*cess"ful*ness, n.

SUCCESSION
Suc*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. successio: cf. F. succession. See
Succeed.]

1. The act of succeeding, or following after; a following of things
in order of time or place, or a series of things so following;
sequence; as, a succession of good crops; a succession of disasters.

2. A series of persons or things according to some established rule
of precedence; as, a succession of kings, or of bishops; a succession
of events in chronology.
He was in the succession to an earldom. Macaulay.

3. An order or series of descendants; lineage; race; descent. "A long
succession must ensue." Milton.

4. The power or right of succeeding to the station or title of a
father or other predecessor; the right to enter upon the office,
rank, position, etc., held ny another; also, the entrance into the
office, station, or rank of a predecessor; specifically, the
succeeding, or right of succeeding, to a throne.
You have the voice of the king himself for your succession in
Denmark. Shak.
The animosity of these factions did not really arise from the dispute
about the succession. Macaulay.

5. The right to enter upon the possession of the property of an
ancestor, or one near of kin, or one preceding in an established
order.

6. The person succeeding to rank or office; a successor or heir. [R.]
Milton. Apostolical succession. (Theol.) See under Apostolical.
 -- Succession duty, a tax imposed on every succession to property,
according to its value and the relation of the person who succeeds to
the previous owner. [Eng.] -- Succession of crops. (Agric.) See
Rotation of crops, under Rotation.

SUCCESSIONAL
Suc*ces"sion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a succession; existing in a regular order;
consecutive. "Successional teeth." Flower.
 -- Suc*ces"sion*al*ly, adv.

SUCCESSIONIST
Suc*ces"sion*ist, n.

Defn: A person who insists on the importance of a regular succession
of events, offices, etc.; especially (Eccl.), one who insists that
apostolic succession alone is valid.

SUCCESSIVE
Suc*ces"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. successif. See Succeed.]

1. Following in order or in uninterrupted course; coming after
without interruption or interval; following one after another in a
line or series; consecutive; as, the successive revolution of years;
the successive kings of Egypt; successive strokes of a hammer.
Send the successive ills through ages down. Prior.

2. Having or giving the right of succeeding to an inheritance;
inherited by succession; hereditary; as, a successive title; a
successive empire. [Obs.] Shak. Successive induction. (Math.) See
Induction, 5.

SUCCESSIVELY
Suc*ces"sive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a successive manner.
The whiteness, at length, changed successively into blue, indigo, and
violet. Sir I. Newton.

SUCCESSIVENESS
Suc*ces"sive*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being successive.

SUCCESSLESS
Suc*cess"less, a.

Defn: Having no success.
Successless all her soft caresses prove. Pope.
-- Suc*cess"less*ly, adv.
 -- Suc*cess"less*ness, n.

SUCCESSOR
Suc*ces"sor, n. Etym: [OE. successour, OF. successur, successor, F.
successeur, L. successor. See Succeed.]

Defn: One who succeeds or follows; one who takes the place which
another has left, and sustains the like part or character; --
correlative to predecessor; as, the successor of a deceased king.
Chaucer.
A gift to a corporation, either of lands or of chattels, without
naming their successors, vests an absolute property in them so lond
as the corporation subsists. Blackstone.

SUCCIDUOUS
Suc*cid"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. succiduus, fr. succidere to fall under.]

Defn: Ready to fall; falling. [R.]

SUCCIFEROUS
Suc*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. succus, sucus, juice, sap + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing or conveying sap.

SUCCINAMATE
Suc`cin*am"ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of succinamic acid.

SUCCINAMIC
Suc`cin*am"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide derivative of
succinic acid, obtained as a white crystalline substance, and forming
a series of salts.

SUCCINATE
Suc"ci*nate, n. Etym: [L. succinum, sucinum, amber, from succus,
sucus, juice, sap: cf. F. succinate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of succinic acid.

SUCCINCT
Suc*cinct", a. Etym: [L. succinctus, p.p. of succingere to gird below
or from below, to tuck up; sub + cingere to gird. Cf. Cincture.]

1. Girded or tucked up; bound; drawn tightly together.
His habit fit for speed succinct. Milton.

2. Compressed into a narrow compass; brief; concise.
Let all your precepts be succinct and clear. Roscommon.
The shortest and most succinct model that ever grasped all the needs
and necessities of mankind. South.

Syn.
 -- Short; brief; concise; summary; compendious; laconic; terse.
 -- Suc*cinct"ly, adv.
 -- Suc*cinct"ness, n.

SUCCINIC
Suc*cin"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. succinique. See Succinate.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, amber; specif., designating a
dibasic acid, C

SUCCINIMIDE
Suc`cin*im"ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline nitrogenous substance, C2H4.(CO)2.NH,
obtained by treating succinic anhydride with ammonia gas. It is a
typical imido acid, and forms a series of salts. See Imido acid,
under Imido.

SUCCINITE
Suc"ci*nite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. succinite.] (Min.)
(a) Amber.
(b) A garnet of an amber color.

SUCCINOUS
Suc"ci*nous, a. Etym: [From L. succinum amber.]

Defn: Succinic. [R.]

SUCCINURATE
Suc`cin*u"rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of succinuric acid.

SUCCINURIC
Suc`cin*u"ric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid amide, analogous to
succinamic acid, which is obtained as a white crystalline substance
by heating urea with succinic anhydride. It is known also in its
salts.

SUCCINYL
Suc"cin*yl, n. Etym: [Succinic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical characteristic of succinic acid and
certain of its derivatives.

SUCCISE
Suc*cise", a. Etym: [See Succision.] (Bot.)

Defn: Appearing as if a part were cut off at the extremity.

SUCCISION
Suc*ci"sion, n. Etym: [L. succisio, fr. succidere, succisum, to cut
away below, sub under + caedere to cut.]

Defn: The act of cutting down, as of trees; the act of cutting off.
[R.]

SUCCOR
Suc"cor, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Succored; p. pr. & vb. n. Succoring.]
Etym: [OE. socouren, OF. sucurre, soucourre, secorre, F. secourir, L.
succurrere, succursum, to run under, run to the aid of, help, succor;
sub under + currere to run. See Current.]

Defn: tiono run to, or run to support; hence, to help or relieve when
in difficulty, want, or distress; to assist and deliver from
suffering; to relieve; as, to succor a besieged city. [Written also
succour.]
He is able to succor them that are tempted. Heb. ii. 18.

Syn.
 -- To aid; assist; relieve; deliver; help; comfort.

SUCCOR
Suc"cor, n. Etym: [OE. socours, sucurs, OF. sucurs, socors, secors,
F. secours, L. succursus, fr. L. succurrere. See Succor, v. t.]

1. Aid; help; assistance; esp., assistance that relieves and delivers
from difficulty, want, or distress. "We beseech mercy and succor."
Chaucer.
My noble father . . . Flying for succor to his servant Bannister.
Shak.

2. The person or thing that brings relief.
This mighty succor, which made glad the foe. Dryden.

SUCCORABLE
Suc"cor*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being succored or assisted; admitting of relief.

SUCCORER
Suc"cor*er, n.

Defn: One who affords succor; a helper.

SUCCORLESS
Suc"cor*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of succor. Thomson.

SUCCORY
Suc"co*ry, n. Etym: [Corrupted from chicory.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Cichorium. See Chicory.

SUCCOTASH
Suc"co*tash, n. Etym: [Narragansett Indian m'sickquatash corn boiled
whole.]

Defn: Green maize and beans boiled together. The dish is borrowed
from the native Indians. [Written also suckatash.]

SUCCOTEAGUE
Suc`co*teague", n. (Zool.)

Defn: The squeteague.

SUCCUBA
Suc"cu*ba, n.; pl. Succub?. Etym: [NL., fr. L. succubare to lie
under; sub under + cubare to lie down; cf. L. succuba, succubo, one
who lies under another.]

Defn: A female demon or fiend. See Succubus.
Though seeming in shape a woman natural Was a fiend of the kind that
succub? some call. Mir. for Mag.

SUCCUBINE
Suc"cu*bine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to succuba.

SUCCUBOUS
Suc"cu*bous, a. Etym: [See Succuba.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the leaves so placed that the upper part of each one is
covered by the base of the next higher leaf, as in hepatic mosses of
the genus Plagiochila.

SUCCUBUS
Suc"cu*bus, n.; pl. Succubi. Etym: [See Succuba.]

1. A demon or fiend; especially, a lascivious spirit supposed to have
sexual intercourse with the men by night; a succuba. Cf. Incubus.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The nightmare. See Nightmare, 2.

SUCCULA
Suc"cu*la, n. Etym: [L. sucula a winch, windlass, capstan.] (Mach.)

Defn: A bare axis or cylinder with staves or levers in it to turn it
round, but without any drum.

SUCCULENCE; SUCCULENCY
Suc"cu*lence, Suc"cu*len*cy, n. Etym: [See Succulent.]

Defn: The quality or condition of being succulent; juiciness; as, the
succulence of a peach.

SUCCULENT
Suc"cu*lent, a. Etym: [L. succulentus, suculentus, fr. succus, sucus,
juice; perhaps akin to E. suck: cf. F. succulent.]

Defn: Full of juice; juicy. Succulent plants (Bot.), plants which
have soft and juicy leaves or stems, as the houseleek, the live
forever, and the species of Mesembryanthemum.

SUCCULENTLY
Suc"cu*lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a succulent manner.

SUCCULOUS
Suc"cu*lous, a.

Defn: Succulent; juicy. [R.]

SUCCUMB
Suc*cumb", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Succumbed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Succumbing.] Etym: [L. succumbere; sub under + cumbere (in comp.),
akin to cubare to lie down. See Incumbent, Cubit.]

Defn: To yield; to submit; to give up unresistingly; as, to succumb
under calamities; to succumb to disease.

SUCCUMBENT
Suc*cum"bent, a. Etym: [L. succumbens, p.pr.]

Defn: Submissive; yielding. [R.] Howell.

SUCCURSAL
Suc*cur"sal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. succursale. See Succor, n. & v. t.]

Defn: Serving to aid or help; serving as a chapel of ease; tributary.
[R.]
Not a city was without its cathedral, surrounded by its succursal
churches, its monasteries, and convents. Milman.

SUCCUS
Suc"cus, n.; pl. Succi (. (Med.)

Defn: The expressed juice of a plant, for medicinal use. Succus
entericus (. Etym: [NL., literally, juice of the intestines.]
(Physiol.) A fluid secreted in small by certain glands (probably the
glands of Lieberkuhn) of the small intestines. Its exact action is
somewhat doubtful.

SUCCUSSATION
Suc`cus*sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. succussare to jolt, v. intens. fr.
succutere, succussum, to fling up from below, to toss up; sub under +
quatere to shake.]

1. A trot or trotting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. A shaking; succussion.

SUCCUSSION
Suc*cus"sion, n. Etym: [L. succussio, from succutere: cf. F.
succussion. See Succussation.]

Defn: The act of shaking; a shake; esp. (Med.), a shaking of the body
to ascertain if there be a liquid in the thorax.

SUCCUSSIVE
Suc*cus"sive, a.

Defn: Characterized by a shaking motion, especially an up and down
movement, and not merely tremulous oscillation; as, the succussive
motion in earthquakes.

SUCH
Such, a. Etym: [OE. such, sich, sech, sik, swich, swilch, swulch,
swilc, swulc, AS. swelc, swilc, swylc; akin to OFries. selik, D.
zulk, OS. sulic, OHG. sulih, solih, G. solch, Icel. slikr, OSw.
salik, Sw. slik, Dan. slig, Goth. swaleiks; originally meaning, so
shaped. *192. See So, Like, a., and cf. Which.]

1. Of that kind; of the like kind; like; resembling; similar; as, we
never saw such a day; -- followed by that or as introducing the word
or proposition which defines the similarity, or the standard of
comparison; as, the books are not such that I can recommend them, or,
not such as I can recommend; these apples are not such as those we
saw yesterday; give your children such precepts as tend to make them
better.
And in his time such a conqueror That greater was there none under
the sun. Chaucer.
His misery was such that none of the bystanders could refrain from
weeping. Macaulay.

Note: The indefinite article a or an never precedes such, but is
placed between it and the noun to which it refers; as, such a man;
such an honor. The indefinite adjective some, several, one, few,
many, all, etc., precede such; as, one such book is enough; all such
people ought to be avoided; few such ideas were then held.

2. Having the particular quality or character specified.
That thou art happy, owe to God; That thou continuest such, owe to
thyself. Milton.

3. The same that; -- with as; as, this was the state of the kingdom
at such time as the enemy landed. "[It] hath such senses as we have."
Shak.

4. Certain; -- representing the object as already particularized in
terms which are not mentioned.
In rushed one and tells him such a knight Is new arrived. Daniel.
To-day or to-morrow we will go into such a city, and continue there a
year. James iv. 13.

Note: Such is used pronominally. "He was the father of such as dwell
in tents." Gen. iv. 20. "Such as I are free in spirit when our limbs
are chained." Sir W. Scott. Such is also used before adjectives
joined to substantives; as, the fleet encountered such a terrible
storm that it put back. "Everything was managed with so much care,
and such excellent order was observed." De Foe.
Temple sprung from a family which . . . long after his death produced
so many eminent men, and formed such distinguished alliances, that,
etc. Macaulay.
Such is used emphatically, without the correlative.
Now will he be mocking: I shall have such a life. Shak.
Such was formerly used with numerals in the sense of times as much or
as many; as, such ten, or ten times as many. Such and such, or Such
or such, certain; some; -- used to represent the object indefinitely,
as already particularized in one way or another, or as being of one
kind or another. "In such and such a place shall be my camp." 2 Kings
vi. 8. "Sovereign authority may enact a law commanding such and such
an action." South.
 -- Such like or character, of the like kind.
And many other such like things ye do. Mark vii. 8.

SUCHOSPONDYLOUS
Su`cho*spon"dy*lous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Having dorsal vertebr? with long and divided transverse
processes; -- applied to certain reptiles.

SUCHWISE
Such"wise`, adv.

Defn: In a such a manner; so.

SUCK
Suck, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sucked; p. pr. & vb. n. Sucking.] Etym:
[OE. suken, souken, AS. s, s; akin to D. zuigen, G. saugen, OHG. s,
Icel. s, sj, Sw. suga, Dan. suge, L. sugere. Cf. Honeysuckle, Soak,
Succulent, Suction.]

1. To draw, as a liquid, by the action of the mouth and tongue, which
tends to produce a vacuum, and causes the liquid to rush in by
atmospheric pressure; to draw, or apply force to, by exhausting the
air.

2. To draw liquid from by the action of the mouth; as, to suck an
orange; specifically, to draw milk from (the mother, the breast,
etc.) with the mouth; as, the young of an animal sucks the mother, or
dam; an infant sucks the breast.

3. To draw in, or imbibe, by any process resembles sucking; to
inhale; to absorb; as, to suck in air; the roots of plants suck water
from the ground.

4. To draw or drain.
Old ocean, sucked through the porous globe. Thomson.

5. To draw in, as a whirlpool; to swallow up.
As waters are by whirlpools sucked and drawn. Dryden.
To suck in, to draw into the mouth; to imbibe; to absorb.
 -- To suck out, to draw out with the mouth; to empty by suction.
 -- To suck up, to draw into the mouth; to draw up by suction
absorption.

SUCK
Suck, v. i.

1. To draw, or attempt to draw, something by suction, as with the
mouth, or through a tube.
Where the bee sucks, there suck I. Shak.

2. To draw milk from the breast or udder; as, a child, or the young
of an animal, is first nourished by sucking.

3. To draw in; to imbibe; to partake.
The crown had sucked too hard, and now, being full, was like to draw
less. Bacon.

SUCK
Suck, n.

1. The act of drawing with the mouth.

2. That which is drawn into the mouth by sucking; specifically, mikl
drawn from the breast. Shak.

3. A small draught. [Colloq.] Massinger.

4. Juice; succulence. [Obs.]

SUCKANHOCK
Suck"an*hock, n. Etym: [Of American Indian origin.]

Defn: A kind of seawan. See Note under Seawan.

SUCKATASH
Suck"a*tash, n.

Defn: See Succotash. Bartlett.

SUCKEN
Suck"en, n. Etym: [See Socome, Soc.] (Scots Law)

Defn: The jurisdiction of a mill, or that extent of ground astricted
to it, the tenants of which are bound to bring their grain thither to
be ground.

SUCKER
Suck"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, sucks; esp., one of the organs by which
certain animals, as the octopus and remora, adhere to other bodies.

2. A suckling; a sucking animal. Beau. & Fl.

3. The embolus, or bucket, of a pump; also, the valve of a pump
basket. Boyle.

4. A pipe through which anything is drawn.

5. A small piece of leather, usually round, having a string attached
to the center, which, when saturated with water and pressed upon a
stone or other body having a smooth surface, adheres, by reason of
the atmospheric pressure, with such force as to enable a considerable
weight to be thus lifted by the string; -- used by children as a
plaything.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: A shoot from the roots or lower part of the stem of a plant; --
so called, perhaps, from diverting nourishment from the body of the
plant.

7. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of numerous species of North American fresh-water
cyprinoid fishes of the family Catostomid?; so called because the
lips are protrusile. The flesh is coarse, and they are of little
value as food. The most common species of the Eastern United States
are the northern sucker (Catostomus Commersoni), the white sucker (C.
teres), the hog sucker (C. nigricans), and the chub, or sweet sucker
(Erimyzon sucetta). Some of the large Western species are called
buffalo fish, red horse, black horse, and suckerel.
(b) The remora.
(c) The lumpfish.
(d) The hagfish, or myxine.
(e) A California food fish (Menticirrus undulatus) closely allied to
the kingfish (a); -- called also bagre.

8. A parasite; a sponger. See def. 6, above.
They who constantly converse with men far above their estates shall
reap shame and loss thereby; if thou payest nothing, they will count
thee a sucker, no branch. Fuller.

9. A hard drinker; a soaker. [Slang]

10. A greenhorn; one easily gulled. [Slang, U.S.]

11. A nickname applied to a native of Illinois. [U. S.] Carp sucker,
Cherry sucker, etc. See under Carp, Cherry, etc.
 -- Sucker fish. See Sucking fish, under Sucking.
 -- Sucker rod, a pump rod. See under Pump.
 -- Sucker tube (Zool.), one of the external ambulacral tubes of an
echinoderm, -- usually terminated by a sucker and used for
locomotion. Called also sucker foot. See Spatangoid.

SUCKER
Suck"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suckered; p. pr. & vb. n. Suckering.]

Defn: To strip off the suckers or shoots from; to deprive of suckers;
as, to sucker maize.

SUCKER
Suck"er, v. i.

Defn: To form suckers; as, corn suckers abundantly.

SUCKER STATE
Suck"er State.

Defn: Illinois; -- a nickname.

SUCKET
Suck"et, n. Etym: [Cf. Suck, v. t., Succades.]

Defn: A sweetmeat; a dainty morsel. Jer. Taylor.

SUCKFISH
Suck"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A sucker fish.

SUCKING
Suck"ing, a.

Defn: Drawing milk from the mother or dam; hence, colloquially,
young, inexperienced, as, a sucking infant; a sucking calf.
I suppose you are a young barrister, sucking lawyer, or that sort of
thing. Thackeray.
Sucking bottle, a feeding bottle. See under Bottle.
 -- Sucking fish (Zool.), the remora. See Remora. Baird.
 -- Sucking pump, a suction pump. See under Suction.
 -- Sucking stomach (Zool.), the muscular first stomach of certain
insects and other invertebrates which suck liquid food.

SUCKLE
Suc"kle, n.

Defn: A teat. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

SUCKLE
Suc"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suckled; p. pr. & vb. n. Suckling.]
Etym: [Freq. of suck.]

Defn: To give suck to; to nurse at the breast. Addison.
The breasts of Hecuba When she did suckle Hector, looked not
lovelier. Shak.
They are not weak, suckled by Wisdom. Landor.

SUCKLE
Suc"kle, v. i.

Defn: To nurse; to suck. [R.]

SUCKLER
Suc"kler, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An animal that suckles its young; a mammal.

SUCKLING
Suck"ling, n. Etym: [OE. sokeling. See Suck, v. t.]

1. A young child or animal nursed at the breast.

2. A small kind of yellow clover (Trifolium filiforme) common in
Southern Europe.

SUCRATE
Su"crate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of sucrose (or of some related carbohydrate) with
some base, after the analogy of a salt; as, sodium sucrate.

SUCRE
Su"cre, n.

Defn: A silver coin of Ecuador, worth 68 cents.

SUCROSE
Su"crose`, n. Etym: [F. sucre sugar. See Sugar.] (Chem.)

Defn: A common variety of sugar found in the juices of many plants,
as the sugar cane, sorghum, sugar maple, beet root, etc. It is
extracted as a sweet, white crystalline substance which is valuable
as a food product, and, being antiputrescent, is largely used in the
preservation of fruit. Called also saccharose, cane sugar, etc. By
extension, any one of the class of isomeric substances (as lactose,
maltose, etc.) of which sucrose proper is the type.

Note: Sucrose proper is a dextrorotatory carbohydrate, C12H22O11. It
does not reduce Fehling's solution, and though not directly
fermentable, yet on standing with yeast it is changed by the diastase
present to invert sugar (dextrose and levulose), which then breaks
down to alcohol and carbon dioxide. It is also decomposed to invert
sugar by heating with acids, whence it is also called a disaccharate.
Sucrose possesses at once the properties of an alcohol and a ketone,
and also forms compounds (called sucrates) analogous to salts. Cf.
Sugar.

SUCTION
Suc"tion, n. Etym: [L. sugere, suctum, to suck; cf. OF. suction. See
Suck, v. t.]

Defn: The act or process of sucking; the act of drawing, as fluids,
by exhausting the air. Suction chamber, the chamber of a pump into
which the suction pipe delivers.
 -- Suction pipe, Suction valve, the induction pipe, and induction
valve, of a pump, respectively.
 -- Suction pump, the common pump, in which the water is raised into
the barrel by atmospheric pressure. See Illust. of Pump.

SUCTORIA
Suc*to"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Suction.] (Zool.)

1. An order of Infusoria having the body armed with somewhat stiff,
tubular processes which they use as suckers in obtaining their food.
They are usually stalked.

2. Same as Rhizocephala.

SUCTORIAL
Suc*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. sugere, suctum, to suck.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Adapted for sucking; living by sucking; as, the humming birds
are suctorial birds.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Capable of adhering by suction; as, the suctorial fishes.

SUCTORIAN
Suc*to"ri*an, n.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A cartilaginous fish with a mouth adapted for suction, as the
lampery.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Suctoria.

SUCTORIOUS
Suc*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Suctorial. [R.]

SUDAMINA
Su*dam"i*na, n. pl, sing. Sudamen (. Etym: [NL. sudamen, -inis, fr.
sudare to sweat. See Sweat.] (Med.)

Defn: Minute vesicles surrounded by an area of reddened skin,
produced by excessive sweating.

SUDARIUM
Su*da"ri*um, n. Etym: [L., a handkerchief.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The handkerchief upon which the Savior is said to have
impressed his own portrait miraculously, when wiping his face with
it, as he passed to the crucifixion.

SUDARY
Su"da*ry, n. Etym: [L. sudarium, fr. sudare to sweat. See Sweat.]

Defn: A napkin or handkerchief. [Obs. or R.] Wyclif. R. Browning.

SUDATION
Su*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. sudatio, fr. sudare to sweat: cf. F.
sudation.]

Defn: A sweating. [Obs.]

SUDATORIUM
Su`da*to"ri*um, n.; pl. Sudatoria. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A sudatory. Dunglison.

SUDATORY
Su"da*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. sudatorius, fr. sudare to sweat: cf. F.
sudatoire. See Sweat.]

Defn: Sweating; perspiring.

SUDATORY
Su"da*to*ry, n.; pl. Sudatories. Etym: [L. sudatorium.]

Defn: A bagnio; a sweating bath; a vapor bath.
These sudatories are much in request for many infirmities. Evelyn.

SUDD
Sudd (sud), n. [Ar. sadd barrier.]

Defn: A tangled mass of floating vegetal matter obstructing
navigation. [Central Africa]

SUDDEN
Sud"den, a. Etym: [OE. sodian, sodein, OF. sodain, sudain, F.
soudain, L. subitaneus, fr. subitus sudden, that has come
unexpectedly, p.p. of subire to come on, to steal upon; sub under,
secretly + ire to go. See Issue, and cf. Subitaneous.]

1. Happening without previous notice or with very brief notice;
coming unexpectedly, or without the common preparation; immediate;
instant; speedy. "O sudden wo!" Chaucer. "For fear of sudden death."
Shak.
Sudden fear troubleth thee. Job xxii. 10.

2. Hastly prepared or employed; quick; rapid.
Never was such a sudden scholar made. Shak.
The apples of Asphaltis, appearing goodly to the sudden eye. Milton.

3. Hasty; violent; rash; precipitate. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Unexpected; unusual; abrupt; unlooked-for.
 -- Sud"den*ly, adv.
 -- Sud"den*ness, n.

SUDDEN
Sud"den, adv.

Defn: Suddenly; unexpectedly. [R.]
Herbs of every leaf that sudden flowered. Milton.

SUDDEN
Sud"den, n.

Defn: An unexpected occurrence; a surprise. All of a sudden, On a
sudden, Of a sudden, sooner than was expected; without the usual
preparation; suddenly.
How art thou lost! how on a sudden lost! Milton.
He withdrew his opposition all of a sudden. Thackeray.

SUDDENTY
Sud"den*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. soudainete.]

Defn: Suddenness; a sudden. [Scot.] On a suddenty, on a sudden.
[Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

SUDORAL
Su"dor*al, a. Etym: [L. sudor.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to sweat; as, sudoral eruptions.

SUDORIFEROUS
Su`dor*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. sudor sweat + -ferous.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Producing, or secreting, sweat; sudoriparous. Sudoriferous
glands (Anat.), small convoluted tubular glands which are situated in
the subcutaneous tissues and discharge by minute orifices in the
surface of the skin; the sweat glands.

SUDORIFIC
Su`dor*if"ic, a. Etym: [L. sudor sweat (akin to E. sweat) + facere to
make.]

Defn: Causing sweat; as, sudorific herbs.
 -- n.

Defn: A sudorific medicine. Cf. Diaphoretic.

SUDORIPAROUS
Su`dor*ip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. sudor sweat + parere to produce.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Sudoriferous.

SUDOROUS
Su"dor*ous, a. Etym: [L. sudorus, fr. sudor sweat.]

Defn: Consisting of sweat. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SUDRA
Su"dra, n. Etym: [Skr. c.]

Defn: The lowest of the four great castes among the Hindoos. See
Caste. [Written also Soorah, Soodra, and Sooder.]

SUDS
Suds, n. pl. Etym: [Akin to sodden, seethe. See Seethe.]

Defn: Water impregnated with soap, esp. when worked up into bubbles
and froth. In the suds, in turmoil or difficulty. [Colloq.] Beau. &
Fl.

SUE
Sue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sued; p. pr. & vb. n. Suing.] Etym: [OE.
suen, sewen, siwen, OF. sivre (pres.ind. 3d sing. il siut, suit, he
follows, nous sevons we follow), LL. sequere, for L. sequi, secutus;
akin to Gr. sac to accompany, and probably to E. see, v.t. See See,
v. t., and cf. Consequence, Ensue, Execute, Obsequious, Pursue,
Second, Sect in religion, Sequence, Suit.]

1. To follow up; to chase; to seek after; to endeavor to win; to woo.
For yet there was no man that haddle him sued. Chaucer.
I was beloved of many a gentle knight, And sued and sought with all
the service due. Spenser.
Sue me, and woo me, and flatter me. Tennyson.

2. (Law)
(a) To seek justice or right from, by legal process; to institute
process in law against; to bring an action against; to prosecute
judicially.
(b) To proceed with, as an action, and follow it up to its proper
termination; to gain by legal process.

3. (Falconry)

Defn: To clean, as the beak; -- said of a hawk.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: To leave high and dry on shore; as, to sue a ship. R. H. Dana,
Jr. To sue out (Law), to petition for and take out, or to apply for
and obtain; as, to sue out a writ in chancery; to sue out a pardon
for a criminal.

SUE
Sue, v. i.

1. To seek by request; to make application; to petition; to entreat;
to plead.
By adverse destiny constrained to sue For counsel and redress, he
sues to you. Pope.
C?sar came to Rome to sue for the double honor of a triumph and the
consulship. C. Middleton.
The Indians were defeated and sued for peace. Jefferson.

2. (Law)

Defn: To prosecute; to make legal claim; to seek (for something) in
law; as, to sue for damages.

3. To woo; to pay addresses as a lover. Massinger.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: To be left high and dry on the shore, as a ship. R. H. Dana,
Jr.

SUEDE
Suede (swayd or swad), n. [F., Sweden.]

Defn: Swedish glove leather, --usually made from lambskins tanned
with willow bark. Also used adjectively; as, suede gloves.

SUENT
Su"ent, a.

Defn: Uniformly or evenly distributed or spread; even; smooth. See
Suant. Thoreau.

SUENTLY
Su"ent*ly, adv.

Defn: Evenly; smoothly.

SUER
Su"er, n.

Defn: One who sues; a suitor.

SUET
Su"et, n. Etym: [OE. suet, dim. fr. OF. seu, suif, F. suif, L. sebum.
Cf. Soap, Sebaceous.]

Defn: The fat and fatty tissues of an animal, especially the harder
fat about the kidneys and loins in beef and mutton, which, when
melted and freed from the membranes, forms tallow.

SUETY
Su"et*y, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, suet; as, a suety substance.

SUF-
Suf-.

Defn: A form of the prefix Sub-.

SUFFER
Suf"fer, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suffered; p. pr. & vb. n. Suffering.]
Etym: [OE. suffren, soffren, OF. sufrir, sofrir, F. souffrir,
(assumed) LL. sofferire, for L. sufferre; sub under + ferre to bear,
akin to E. bear. See Bear to support.]

1. To feel, or endure, with pain, annoyance, etc.; to submit to with
distress or grief; to undergo; as, to suffer pain of body, or grief
of mind.

2. To endure or undergo without sinking; to support; to sustain; to
bear up under.
Our spirit and strength entire, Strongly to suffer and support our
pains. Milton.

3. To undergo; to be affected by; to sustain; to experience; as, most
substances suffer a change when long exposed to air and moisture; to
suffer loss or damage.
If your more ponderous and settled project May suffer alteration.
Shak.

4. To allow; to permit; not to forbid or hinder; to tolerate.
Thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbour, and not suffer sin upon
him. Lev. xix. 17.
I suffer them to enter and possess. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To permit; bear; endure; support; sustain; allow; admit;
tolerate. See Permit.

SUFFER
Suf"fer, v. i.

1. To feel or undergo pain of body or mind; to bear what is
inconvenient; as, we suffer from pain, sickness, or sorrow; we suffer
with anxiety.
O well for him whose will is strong! He suffers, but he will not
suffer long. Tennyson.

2. To undergo punishment; specifically, to undergo the penalty of
death.
The father was first condemned to suffer upon a day appointed, and
the son afterwards the day following. Clarendon.

3. To be injured; to sustain loss or damage.
Public business suffers by private infirmities. Sir W. Temple.

SUFFERABLE
Suf"fer*a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. souffrable.]

1. Able to suffer or endure; patient. [Obs.] "Ye must be sufferable."
Chaucer.

2. That may be suffered, tolerated, or permitted; allowable;
tolerable.
 -- Suf"fer*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Suf"fer*a*bly, adv.

SUFFERANCE
Suf"fer*ance, n. Etym: [OE. suffrance, OF. sufrance, soufrance, F.
souffrance, L. sufferentia, from sufferens, -entis, p.pr. of
sufferre. See Suffer.]

1. The state of suffering; the bearing of pain; endurance.
He must not only die the death, But thy unkindness shall his death
draw out To lingering sufferance. Shak.

2. Pain endured; misery; suffering; distress.
The seeming sufferances that you had borne. Shak.

3. Loss; damage; injury. [Obs.]
A grievous . . . sufferance on most part of their fleet. Shak.

4. Submission under difficult or oppressive circumstances; patience;
moderation. Chaucer.
But hasty heat tempering with sufferance wise. Spenser.

5. Negative consent by not forbidding or hindering; toleration;
permission; allowance; leave. Shak.
In their beginning they are weak and wan, But soon, through
sufferance, grow to fearful end. Spenser.
Somewhiles by sufferance, and somewhiles by special leave and favor,
they erected to themselves oratories. Hooker.

6. A permission granted by the customs authorities for the shipment
of goods. [Eng.] Estate of sufferance (Law), the holding by a tenant
who came in by a lawful title, but remains, after his right has
expired, without positive leave of the owner. Blackstone.
 -- On sufferance, by mere toleration; as, to remain in a house on
sufferance.

Syn.
 -- Endurance; pain; misery; inconvenience; patience; moderation;
toleration; permission.

SUFFERER
Suf"fer*er, n.

1. One who suffers; one who endures or undergoes suffering; one who
sustains inconvenience or loss; as, sufferers by poverty or sickness;
men are sufferers by fire or by losses at sea.

2. One who permits or allows.

SUFFERING
Suf"fer*ing, n.

Defn: The bearing of pain, inconvenience, or loss; pain endured;
distress, loss, or injury incurred; as, sufferings by pain or sorrow;
sufferings by want or by wrongs. "Souls in sufferings tried." Keble.

SUFFERING
Suf"fer*ing, a.

Defn: Being in pain or grief; having loss, injury, distress, etc.
 -- Suf"fer*ing*ly, adv.

SUFFICE
Suf*fice", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sufficed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sufficing.]
Etym: [OE. suffisen, OF. soufire, F. suffire (cf. suffisant, p.pr.),
L. sufficere to put under, to substitute, to avail for, to suffice;
sub under + facere to make. See Fact.]

Defn: To be enough, or sufficient; to meet the need (of anything); to
be equal to the end proposed; to be adequate. Chaucer.
To recount almighty works, What words or tongue of seraph can suffice
Milton.

SUFFICE
Suf*fice", v. t.

1. To satisfy; to content; to be equal to the wants or demands of.
Spenser.
Let it suffice thee; speak no more unto me of this matter. Deut. iii.
26.

2. To furnish; to supply adequately. [Obs.]
The power appeased, with winds sufficed the sail. Dryden.

SUFFICIENCE
Suf*fi"cience, n.

Defn: Sufficiently. [Obs.]

SUFFICIENCY
Suf*fi"cien*cy, n. Etym: [L. sufficientia: cf. F. suffisance. See
Suffice.]

1. The quality or state of being sufficient, or adequate to the end
proposed; adequacy.
His sufficiency is such that he bestows and possesses, his plenty
being unexhausted. Boyle.

2. Qualification for any purpose; ability; capacity.
A substitute or most allowed sufficiency. Shak.
I am not so confident of my own sufficiency as not willingly to admit
the counsel of others. Eikon Basilike.

3. Adequate substance or means; competence. "An elegant sufficiency."
Thomson.

4. Supply equal to wants; ample stock or fund.

5. Conceit; self-confidence; self-sufficiency.
Sufficiency is a compound of vanity and ignorance. Sir W. Temple.

SUFFICIENT
Suf*fi"cient, a. Etym: [L. sufficiens, -entis, p.pr. of sufficere:
cf. F. suffisant. See Suffice.]

1. Equal to the end proposed; adequate to wants; enough; ample;
competent; as, provision sufficient for the family; an army
sufficient to defend the country.
My grace is sufficient for thee. 2 Cor. xii. 9.

2. Possessing adequate talents or accomplishments; of competent power
or ability; qualified; fit.
Who is sufficient for these things 2 Cor. ii. 16.

3. Capable of meeting obligations; responsible.
The man is, notwithstanding, sufficient . . . I think I may take his
bond. Shak.

4. Self-sufficient; self-satisfied; content. [R.]
Thou art the most sufficient (I'll say for thee), Not to believe a
thing. Beau. & Fl.

Syn.
 -- Enough; adequate; competent; full; satisfactory; ample.

SUFFICIENTLY
Suf*fi"cient*ly, adv.

Defn: To a sufficient degree; to a degree that answers the purpose,
or gives content; enough; as, we are sufficiently supplied with food;
a man sufficiently qualified for the discharge of his official
duties.

SUFFICING
Suf*fi"cing, a.

Defn: Affording enough; satisfying.
 -- Suf*fi"cing*ly, adv.
 -- Suf*fi"cing*ness, n.

SUFFISANCE
Suf*fi"sance, n. Etym: [F. See Sufficiency.]

Defn: Sufficiency; plenty; abundance; contentment. [Obs.]
He could in little thing have suffisaunce. Chaucer.

SUFFISANT
Suf*fi"sant, a.

Defn: Sufficient. [Obs.]

SUFFIX
Suf"fix, n. Etym: [L. suffixus, p.p. of suffigere to fasten on, to
affix; sub under + figere to fix: cf. F. suffixe. See Fix.]

1. A letter, letters, syllable, or syllables added or appended to the
end of a word or a root to modify the meaning; a postfix.

2. (Math.)

Defn: A subscript mark, number, or letter. See Subscript, a.

SUFFIX
Suf*fix", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suffixed; p. pr. & vb. n. Suffixing.]

Defn: To add or annex to the end, as a letter or syllable to a word;
to append.

SUFFIXION
Suf*fix"ion, n.

Defn: The act of suffixing, or the state of being suffixed.

SUFFIXMENT
Suf*fix"ment, n.

Defn: Suffixion. [R.] Earle.

SUFFLAMINATE
Suf*flam"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. sufflaminatus, p.p. of sufflaminare
to hold back by a clog, from sufflamen a clog.]

1. To retard the motion of, as a carriage, by preventing one or more
of its wheels from revolving, either by means of a chain or
otherwise. [Obs.]

2. Hence, to stop; to impede. [Obs.] Barrow.

SUFFLATE
Suf*flate", v. t. Etym: [L. sufflatus, p.p. of sufflare to blow up,
inflate; sub under + flare to blow.]

Defn: To blow up; to inflate; to inspire. [R.] T. Ward.

SUFFLATION
Suf*fla"tion, n. Etym: [L. sufflatio.]

Defn: The act of blowing up or inflating. [R.] Coles.

SUFFOCATE
Suf"fo*cate, a. Etym: [L. suffocatus, p.p. of suffocare to choke; sub
under + fauces the throat. Cf. Faucal.]

Defn: Suffocated; choked. Shak.

SUFFOCATE
Suf"fo*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suffocated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suffocating.]

1. To choke or kill by stopping respiration; to stifle; to smother.
Let not hemp his windpipe suffocate. Shak.

2. To destroy; to extinguish; as, to suffocate fire.

SUFFOCATE
Suf"fo*cate, v. i.

Defn: To become choked, stifled, or smothered. "A swelling discontent
is apt to suffocate and strangle without passage." collier.

SUFFOCATING
Suf"fo*ca`ting, a. & n.

Defn: from Suffocate, v.
 -- Suf"fo*ca`ting*ly, adv.

SUFFOCATION
Suf`fo*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. suffocatio: cf. F. suffocation.]

Defn: The act of suffocating, or the state of being suffocated; death
caused by smothering or choking.

Note: The term suffocation is sometimes employed synonymously with
asphyxia. In the strict medico-legal sense it signifies asphyxia
induced by obstruction of the respiration otherwise than by direct
pressure on the neck (hanging, strangulation) or submersion
(drowning). Quain.

SUFFOCATIVE
Suf"fo*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or able to choke or stifle. "Suffocative catarrhs."
Arbuthnot.

SUFFOSSION
Suf*fos"sion, n. Etym: [L. suffossio, from suffodere, suffossum, to
dig under; sub under + fodere to dig.]

Defn: A digging under; an undermining. [R.] Bp. Hall.

SUFFRAGAN
Suf"fra*gan, a. Etym: [F. suffragant, L. suffragans, p.pr. of
suffragari to support with one's vote, to be favorable. See
Suffrage.]

Defn: Assisting; assistant; as, a suffragan bishop.

SUFFRAGAN
Suf"fra*gan, n. Etym: [F. suffragant: cf. LL. suffraganeus. See
Suffragan, a.]

1. An assistant.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A bishop considered as an assistant, or as subject, to his
metropolitan; an assistant bishop.

SUFFRAGANSHIP
Suf"fra*gan*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a suffragan.

SUFFRAGANT
Suf"fra*gant, a. & n.

Defn: Suffragan. [Obs.]

SUFFRAGATE
Suf"fra*gate, v. i. & t. [imp. & p. p. Suffragated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suffragating.] Etym: [L. suffragatus, p.p. of suffragari. See
Suffragan, a.]

Defn: To vote or vote with. [Obs.] "Suffragating tribes." Dryden.

SUFFRAGATOR
Suf"fra*ga`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who assists or favors by his vote. [Obs.]

SUFFRAGE
Suf"frage, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. suffragium; perhaps originally, a
broken piece, a potsherd, used in voting, and fr. sub under + the
root of frangere to break. See Break.]

1. A vote given in deciding a controverted question, or in the choice
of a man for an office or trust; the formal expression of an opinion;
assent; vote.
I ask your voices and your suffrages. Shak.

2. Testimony; attestation; witness; approval.
Lactantius and St. Austin confirm by their suffrage the observation
made by heathen writers. Atterbury.
Every miracle is the suffrage of Heaven to the truth of a doctrine.
South.

3. (Eccl.)
(a) A short petition, as those after the creed in matins and
evensong.
(b) A prayer in general, as one offered for the faithful departed.
Shipley.
I firmly believe that there is a purgatory, and that the souls
therein detained are helped by the suffrages of the faithful. Creed
of Pope Pius IV.

4. Aid; assistance. [A Latinism] [Obs.]

Defn: The right to vote; franchise.

SUFFRAGE
Suf"frage, v. t.

Defn: To vote for; to elect. [Obs.] Milton.

SUFFRAGETTE
Suf*fra*gette, n.

Defn: A woman who advocates the right to vote for women; a woman
suffragist.

SUFFRAGINOUS
Suf*frag"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. suffraginosus diseased in the hock, fr.
suffrago the pastern, or hock.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the hock of a beast. [Obs.]

SUFFRAGIST
Suf"fra*gist, n.

1. One who possesses or exercises the political right of suffrage; a
voter.

2. One who has certain opinions or desires about the political right
of suffrage; as, a woman suffragist.
It is curious that . . . Louisa Castelefort should be obliged after
her marriage immediately to open her doors and turn ultra liberal, or
an universal suffragist. Miss Edgeworth.

SUFFRAGO
Suf*fra"go, n. Etym: [L., the hock, from sub under + frangere to
break.] (Zool.)

Defn: The heel joint.

SUFFRANCE
Suf"france, n.

Defn: Sufferance. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SUFFRUTESCENT
Suf`fru*tes"cent, a. Etym: [Pref. suf- + frutescent.] (Bot.)

Defn: Slightly woody at the base.

SUFFRUTICOSE
Suf*fru"ti*cose`, a. Etym: [Pref. suf- + fruticose.] (Bot.)

Defn: Woody in the lower part of the stem, but with the yearly
branches herbaceous, as sage, thyme, hyssop, and the like.

SUFFRUTICOUS
Suf*fru"ti*cous, a.

Defn: Suffruticose.

SUFFUMIGATE
Suf*fu"mi*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suffumigated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suffumigating.] Etym: [L. suffumigatus, p.p. of suffumigare to
fumigate from below. See Sub-, and Fumigate.]

Defn: To apply fumes or smoke to the parts of, as to the body in
medicine; to fumigate in part.

SUFFUMIGATION
Suf*fu`mi*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. suffumigatio: cf. F. suffumigation.]

Defn: The operation of suffumigating.

SUFFUMIGE
Suf*fu"mige, n. Etym: [LL. suffumigium.]

Defn: A medical fume. [Obs.] Harvey.

SUFFUSE
Suf*fuse", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suffused; p. pr. & vb. n. Suffusing.]
Etym: [L. suffusus, p.p. of suffundere to overspread; sub under +
fundere to pour. See Fuse to melt.]

Defn: To overspread, as with a fluid or tincture; to fill or cover,
as with something fluid; as, eyes suffused with tears; cheeks
suffused with blushes.
When purple light shall next suffuse the skies. Pope.

SUFFUSION
Suf*fu"sion, n. Etym: [L. suffusio: cf. F. suffusion.]

1. The act or process of suffusing, or state of being suffused; an
overspreading.
To those that have the jaundice, or like suffusion of eyes, objects
appear of that color. Ray.

2. That with which a thing is suffused.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A blending of one color into another; the spreading of one
color over another, as on the feathers of birds.

SUFI
Su"fi, n. Etym: [From the name of a dynasty of Persian kings, Safi,
Safavi; said to come from name Safi-ud-din of an ancestor of the
family, confused with s pious.]

Defn: A title or surname of the king of Persia.

SUFI
Su"fi, n. Etym: [Ar. & Per. s, wise, pious, devout.]

Defn: One of a certain order of religious men in Persia. [Written
also sofi.]

SUFISM
Su"fism, n.

Defn: A refined mysticism among certain classes of Mohammedans,
particularly in Persia, who hold to a kind of pantheism and practice
extreme asceticism in their lives. [Written also sofism.]

SUG
Sug, n.

Defn: A kind of worm or larva. Walton.

SUGAR
Sug"ar, n. Etym: [OE. sugre, F. sucre (cf. It. zucchero, Sp. azucar),
fr. Ar. sukkar, assukkar, fr. Skr. carkara sugar, gravel; cf. Per.
shakar. Cf. Saccharine, Sucrose.]

1. A sweet white (or brownish yellow) crystalline substance, of a
sandy or granular consistency, obtained by crystallizing the
evaporated juice of certain plants, as the sugar cane, sorghum, beet
root, sugar maple, etc. It is used for seasoning and preserving many
kinds of food and drink. Ordinary sugar is essentially sucrose. See
the Note below.

Note: The term sugar includes several commercial grades, as the white
or refined, granulated, loaf or lump, and the raw brown or muscovado.
In a more general sense, it includes several distinct chemical
compounds, as the glucoses, or grape sugars (including glucose
proper, dextrose, and levulose), and the sucroses, or true sugars (as
cane sugar). All sugars are carbohydrates. See Carbohydrate. The
glucoses, or grape sugars, are ketone alcohols of the formula
C6H12O6, and they turn the plane of polarization to the right or the
left. They are produced from the amyloses and sucroses, as by the
action of heat and acids of ferments, and are themselves decomposed
by fermentation into alcohol and carbon dioxide. The only sugar
(called acrose) as yet produced artificially belongs to this class.
The sucroses, or cane sugars, are doubled glucose anhydrides of the
formula C12H22O11. They are usually not fermentable as such (cf.
Sucrose), and they act on polarized light.

2. By extension, anything resembling sugar in taste or appearance;
as, sugar of lead (lead acetate), a poisonous white crystalline
substance having a sweet taste.

3. Compliment or flattery used to disguise or render acceptable
something obnoxious; honeyed or soothing words. [Colloq.] Acorn
sugar. See Quercite.
 -- Cane sugar, sugar made from the sugar cane; sucrose, or an
isomeric sugar. See Sucrose.
 -- Diabetes, or Diabetic, sugar (Med. Chem.), a variety of sugar
(probably grape sugar or dextrose) excreted in the urine in diabetes
mellitus.
 -- Fruit sugar. See under Fruit, and Fructose.
 -- Grape sugar, a sirupy or white crystalline sugar (dextrose or
glucose) found as a characteristic ingredient of ripe grapes, and
also produced from many other sources. See Dextrose, and Glucose.
 -- Invert sugar. See under Invert.
 -- Malt sugar, a variety of sugar isomeric with sucrose, found in
malt. See Maltose.
 -- Manna sugar, a substance found in manna, resembling, but distinct
from, the sugars. See Mannite.
 -- Milk sugar, a variety of sugar characteristic of fresh milk, and
isomeric with sucrose. See Lactose.
 -- Muscle sugar, a sweet white crystalline substance isomeric with,
and formerly regarded to, the glucoses. It is found in the tissue of
muscle, the heart, liver, etc. Called also heart sugar. See Inosite.
 -- Pine sugar. See Pinite.
 -- Starch sugar (Com. Chem.), a variety of dextrose made by the
action of heat and acids on starch from corn, potatoes, etc.; --
called also potato sugar, corn sugar, and, inaccurately, invert
sugar. See Dextrose, and Glucose.
 -- Sugar barek, one who refines sugar.
 -- Sugar beet (Bot.), a variety of beet (Beta vulgaris) with very
large white roots, extensively grown, esp. in Europe, for the sugar
obtained from them.
 -- Sugar berry (Bot.), the hackberry.
 -- Sugar bird (Zool.), any one of several species of small South
American singing birds of the genera Coereba, Dacnis, and allied
genera belonging to the family Coerebid?. They are allied to the
honey eaters.
 -- Sugar bush. See Sugar orchard.
 -- Sugar camp, a place in or near a sugar orchard, where maple sugar
is made.
 -- Sugar candian, sugar candy. [Obs.] -- Sugar candy, sugar
clarified and concreted or crystallized; candy made from sugar.
 -- Sugar cane (Bot.), a tall perennial grass (Saccharum
officinarium), with thick short-jointed stems. It has been cultivated
for ages as the principal source of sugar.
 -- Sugar loaf. (a) A loaf or mass of refined sugar, usually in the
form of a truncated cone. (b) A hat shaped like a sugar loaf.
Why, do not or know you, grannam, and that sugar loaf J. Webster.
-- Sugar maple (Bot.), the rock maple (Acer saccharinum). See Maple.
 -- Sugar mill, a machine for pressing out the juice of the sugar
cane, usually consisting of three or more rollers, between which the
cane is passed.
 -- Sugar mite. (Zool.) (a) A small mite (Tyroglyphus sacchari),
often found in great numbers in unrefined sugar. (b) The lepisma.
 -- Sugar of lead. See Sugar, 2, above.
 -- Sugar of milk. See under Milk.
 -- Sugar orchard, a collection of maple trees selected and preserved
for purpose of obtaining sugar from them; -- called also, sometimes,
sugar bush. [U.S.] Bartlett.
 -- Sugar pine (Bot.), an immense coniferous tree (Pinus Lambertiana)
of California and Oregon, furnishing a soft and easily worked timber.
The resinous exudation from the stumps, etc., has a sweetish taste,
and has been used as a substitute for sugar.
 -- Sugar squirrel (Zool.), an Australian flying phalanger (Belideus
sciureus), having a long bushy tail and a large parachute. It
resembles a flying squirrel. See Illust. under Phlanger.
 -- Sugar tongs, small tongs, as of silver, used at table for taking
lumps of sugar from a sugar bowl.
 -- Sugar tree. (Bot.) See Sugar maple, above.

SUGAR
Sug"ar, v. i.

Defn: In making maple sugar, to complete the process of boiling down
the sirup till it is thick enough to crystallize; to approach or
reach the state of granulation; -- with the preposition off. [Local,
U.S.]

SUGAR
Sug"ar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sugared; p. pr. & vb. n. Sugaring.]

1. To impregnate, season, cover, or sprinkle with sugar; to mix sugar
with. "When I sugar my liquor." G. Eliot.

2. To cover with soft words; to disguise by flattery; to compliment;
to sweeten; as, to sugar reproof.
With devotion's visage And pious action we do sugar o'er The devil
himself. Shak.

SUGARED
Sug"ared, a.

Defn: Sweetened. "The sugared liquor." Spenser.

Defn: Also used figuratively; as, sugared kisses.

SUGAR-HOUSE
Sug"ar-house`, n.

Defn: A building in which sugar is made or refined; a sugar
manufactory.

SUGARINESS
Sug"ar*i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sugary, or sweet.

SUGARING
Sug"ar*ing, n.

1. The act of covering or sweetening with sugar; also, the sugar thus
used.

2. The act or process of making sugar.

SUGARLESS
Sug"ar*less, a.

Defn: Without sugar; free from sugar.

SUGARPLUM
Sug"ar*plum`, n.

Defn: A kind of candy or sweetneat made up in small balls or disks.

SUGARY
Sug"ar*y, a.

1. Resembling or containing sugar; tasting of sugar; sweet. Spenser.

2. Fond of sugar or sweet things; as, a sugary palate.

SUGESCENT
Su*ges"cent, a. Etym: [L. sugere to suck.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to sucking. [R.] Paley.

SUGGEST
Sug*gest", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suggested; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suggesting.] Etym: [L. suggestus, p.p. of suggerere to put under,
furnish, suggest; sub under + gerere to carry, to bring. See Jest.]

1. To introduce indirectly to the thoughts; to cause to be thought
of, usually by the agency of other objects.
Some ideas . . . are suggested to the mind by all the ways of
sensation and reflection. Locke.

2. To propose with difference or modesty; to hint; to intimate; as,
to suggest a difficulty.

3. To seduce; to prompt to evil; to tempt. [Obs.]
Knowing that tender youth is soon suggested. Shak.

4. To inform secretly. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- To hint; allude to; refer to; insinuate.

SUGGEST
Sug*gest", v. i.

Defn: To make suggestions; to tempt. [Obs.]
And ever weaker grows through acted crime, Or seeming-genial, venial
fault, Recurring and suggesting still. Tennyson.

SUGGESTER
Sug*gest"er, n.

Defn: One who suggests. Beau. & Fl.

SUGGESTION
Sug*ges"tion, n. Etym: [F. suggestion, L. suggestio.]

1. The act of suggesting; presentation of an idea.

2. That which is suggested; an intimation; an insinuation; a hint; a
different proposal or mention; also, formerly, a secret incitement;
temptation.
Why do I yield to that suggestion Shak.

3. Charge; complaint; accusation. [Obs.] "A false suggestion."
Chaucer.

4. (Law)

Defn: Information without oath; an entry of a material fact or
circumstance on the record for the information of the court, at the
death or insolvency of a party.

5. (Physiol. & Metaph.)

Defn: The act or power of originating or recalling ideas or
relations, distinguished as original and relative; -- a term much
used by Scottish metaphysicians from Hutcherson to Thomas Brown.

Syn.
 -- Hint; allusion; intimation; insinuation.
 -- Suggestion, Hint. A hint is the briefest or most indirect mode of
calling one's attention to a subject. A suggestion is a putting of
something before the mind for consideration, an indirect or guarded
mode of presenting argument or advice. A hint is usually something
slight or covert, and may by merely negative in its character. A
suggestion is ordinarily intended to furnish us with some practical
assistance or direction. "He gave me a hint of my danger, and added
some suggestions as to the means of avoiding it."
Willing to wound, and yet afraid to strike, Just hint a fault, and
hesitate dislike. Pope.
Arthur, whom they say is killed to-night On your suggestion. Shak.

SUGGESTIVE
Sug*gest"ive, a.

Defn: Containing a suggestion, hint, or intimation.
 -- Sug*gest"ive*ly, adv.
 -- Sug*gest"ive*ness, n.

SUGGESTIVE MEDICINE
Sug*gest"ive med"i*cine.

Defn: Treatment by commands or positive statements addressed to a
more or less hypnotized patient.

SUGGESTMENT
Sug*gest"ment, n.

Defn: Suggestion. [R.]
They fancy that every thought must needs have an immediate outward
suggestment. Hare.

SUGGESTRESS
Sug*gest"ress, n.

Defn: A woman who suggests. "The suggestress of suicides." De
Quincey.

SUGGIL
Sug"gil, v. t. Etym: [L. suggillare, sugillare, suggillatum,
sugillatum, literally, to beat black and blue.]

Defn: To defame. [Obs.] Abp. Parker.

SUGGILLATE
Sug"gil*late, v. t. Etym: [See Suggil.]

Defn: To beat livid, or black and blue. Wiseman.

SUGGILLATION
Sug`gil*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. suggillatio: cf. F. suggillation.]

Defn: A livid, or black and blue, mark; a blow; a bruise.

SUICIDAL
Su"i*ci`dal, a.

Defn: Partaking of, or of the nature of, the crime or suicide.
 -- Su"i*ci`dal*ly, adv.

SUICIDE
Su"i*cide, n. Etym: [L. sui of one's self (akin to suus one's own) +
caedere to slay, to kill. Cf. So, adv., Homicide.]

1. The act of taking one's own life voluntary and intentionally;
self-murder; specifically (Law), the felonious killing of one's self;
the deliberate and intentional destruction of one's own life by a
person of years of discretion and of sound mind.

2. One guilty of self-murder; a felo-de-se.

3. Ruin of one's own interests. "Intestine war, which may be justly
called political suicide." V. Knox.

SUICIDICAL
Su`i*cid"i*cal, a.

Defn: Suicidal. [Obs.]

SUICIDISM
Su"i*ci*dism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being suicidal, or self-murdering. [R.]

SUICISM
Su"i*cism, n. Etym: [L. suus one's own.]

Defn: Selfishness; egoism. [R.] Whitlock.

SUI GENERIS
Su"i gen"e*ris. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Of his or its own kind.

SUILLAGE
Su"il*lage, n. Etym: [OF. souillage, soillage, fr. souiller, soiller.
See Soil to stain, and cf. Sullage.]

Defn: A drain or collection of filth. [Obs.] [Written also sulliage,
and sullage.] Sir H. Wotton.

SUILLINE
Su"il*line, a. Etym: [L. sus hog.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a hog or the Hog family (Suid?).

SUINE
Su"ine, n. Etym: [Cf. Suint.]

Defn: A mixture of oleomargarine with lard or other fatty
ingredients. It is used as a substitute for butter. See Butterine.

SUING
Su"ing, n. Etym: [Cf. F. suer to sweat, L. sudare.]

Defn: The process of soaking through anything. [Obs.] Bacon.

SUINGLY
Su"ing*ly, adv. Etym: [See Sue to follow.]

Defn: In succession; afterwards. [Obs.] Sir T. More.

SUINT
Su"int, n. Etym: [F.] (Chem.)

Defn: A peculiar substance obtained from the wool of sheep,
consisting largely of potash mixed with fatty and earthy matters. It
is used as a source of potash and also for the manufacture of gas.

SUIOGOTHS
Su`i*o*goths", n. pl. Etym: [L. Suiones (a Teutonic tribe in what is
now Sweeden) + E. Goth.]

Defn: The Scandinavian Goths. See the Note under Goths.

SUIST
Su"ist, n. Etym: [L. suus belinging to himself or to one's self.]

Defn: One who seeks for things which gratify merely himself; a
selfish person; a selfist. [R.] Whitlock.

SUIT
Suit, n. Etym: [OE. suite, F. suite, OF. suite, sieute, fr. suivre to
follow, OF. sivre; perhaps influenced by L. secta. See Sue to follow,
and cf. Sect, Suite.]

1. The act of following or pursuing, as game; pursuit. [Obs.]

2. The act of suing; the process by which one endeavors to gain an
end or an object; an attempt to attain a certain result; pursuit;
endeavor.
Thenceforth the suit of earthly conquest shone. Spenser.

3. The act of wooing in love; the solicitation of a woman in
marriage; courtship.
Rebate your loves, each rival suit suspend, Till this funereal web my
labors end. Pope.

4. (Law)

Defn: The attempt to gain an end by legal process; an action or
process for the recovery of a right or claim; legal application to a
court for justice; prosecution of right before any tribunal; as, a
civil suit; a criminal suit; a suit in chancery.
I arrest thee at the suit of Count Orsino. Shak.
In England the several suits, or remedial instruments of justice, are
distinguished into three kinds -- actions personal, real, and mixed.
Blackstone.

5. That which follows as a retinue; a company of attendants or
followers; the assembly of persons who attend upon a prince,
magistrate, or other person of distinction; -- often written suite,
and pronounced swet.

6. Things that follow in a series or succession; the individual
objects, collectively considered, which constitute a series, as of
rooms, buildings, compositions, etc.; -- often written suite, and
pronounced swet.

7. A number of things used together, and generally necessary to be
united in order to answer their purpose; a number of things
ordinarily classed or used together; a set; as, a suit of curtains; a
suit of armor; a suit of clothes. "Two rogues in buckram suits."
Shak.

8. (Playing Cards)

Defn: One of the four sets of cards which constitute a pack; -- each
set consisting of thirteen cards bearing a particular emblem, as
hearts, spades, cubs, or diamonds.
To deal and shuffle, to divide and sort Her mingled suits and
sequences. Cowper.

9. Regular order; succession. [Obs.]
Every five and thirty years the same kind and suit of weather comes
again. Bacon.
Out of suits, having no correspondence. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Suit and service (Feudal Law), the duty of feudatories to attend
the courts of their lords or superiors in time of peace, and in war
to follow them and do military service; -- called also suit service.
Blackstone.
 -- Suit broker, one who made a trade of obtaining the suits of
petitioners at court. [Obs.] -- Suit court (O. Eng. Law), the court
in which tenants owe attendance to their lord.
 -- Suit covenant (O. Eng. Law), a covenant to sue at a certain
court.
 -- Suit custom (Law), a service which is owed from time immemorial.
 -- Suit service. (Feudal Law) See Suit and service, above.
 -- To bring suit. (Law) (a) To bring secta, followers or witnesses,
to prove the plaintiff's demand. [Obs.] (b) In modern usage, to
institute an action.
 -- To follow suit. (Card Playing) See under Follow, v. t.

SUIT
Suit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suited; p. pr. & vb. n. Suiting.]

1. To fit; to adapt; to make proper or suitable; as, to suit the
action to the word. Shak.

2. To be fitted to; to accord with; to become; to befit.
Ill suits his cloth the praise of railing well. Dryden.
Raise her notes to that sublime degree Which suits song of piety and
thee. Prior.

3. To dress; to clothe. [Obs.]
So went he suited to his watery tomb. Shak.

4. To please; to make content; as, he is well suited with his place;
to suit one's taste.

SUIT
Suit, v. i.

Defn: To agree; to accord; to be fitted; to correspond; -- usually
followed by with or to.
The place itself was suiting to his care. Dryden.
Give me not an office That suits with me so ill. Addison.

Syn.
 -- To agree; accord; comport; tally; correspond; match; answer.

SUITABILITY
Suit`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being suitable; suitableness.

SUITABLE
Suit"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of suiting; fitting; accordant; proper; becoming;
agreeable; adapted; as, ornaments suitable to one's station; language
suitable for the subject.
 -- Suit"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Suit"a*bly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Proper; fitting; becoming; accordant; agreeable; competent;
correspondent; compatible; consonant; congruous; consistent.

SUITE
Suite, n. Etym: [F. See Suit, n.]

1. A retinue or company of attendants, as of a distinguished
personage; as, the suite of an ambassador. See Suit, n., 5.

2. A connected series or succession of objects; a number of things
used or clessed together; a set; as, a suite of rooms; a suite of
minerals. See Suit, n., 6.
Mr. Barnard took one of the candles that stood upon the king's table,
and lighted his majesty through a suite of rooms till they came to a
private door into the library. Boswell.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: One of the old musical forms, before the time of the more
compact sonata, consisting of a string or series of pieces all in the
same key, mostly in various dance rhythms, with sometimes an
elaborate prelude. Some composers of the present day affect the suite
form.

SUITING
Suit"ing, n.

Defn: Among tailors, cloth suitable for making entire suits of
clothes.

SUITOR
Suit"or, n.

1. One who sues, petitions, or entreats; a petitioner; an applicant.
She hath been a suitor to me for her brother. Shak.

2. Especially, one who solicits a woman in marriage; a wooer; a
lover. Sir P. Sidney.

3.
(a) (Law) One who sues or prosecutes a demand in court; a party to a
suit, as a plaintiff, petitioner, etc.
(b) (O. Eng. Law) One who attends a court as plaintiff, defendant,
petitioner, appellant, witness, juror, or the like.

SUITRESS
Suit"ress, n.

Defn: A female supplicant. Rowe.

SUJI
Su"ji, n. Etym: [Hind. s.]

Defn: Indian wheat, granulated but not pulverized; a kind of
semolina. [Written also soojee.]

SULA
Su"la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Icel. s the gannet. See Solan goose.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A genus of sea birds including the booby and the common gannet.

SULCATE; SULCATED
Sul"cate, Sul"ca*ted, a. Etym: [L. sulcatus, p.p. of sulcare to
furrow, fr. sulcus a furrow.]

Defn: Scored with deep and regular furrows; furrowed or grooved; as,
a sulcated stem.

SULCATION
Sul*ca"tion, n.

Defn: A channel or furrow.

SULCIFORM
Sul"ci*form, a.

Defn: Having the form of a sulcus; as, sulciform markings.

SULCUS
Sul"cus, n.; pl. Sulci. Etym: [L., a furrow.]

Defn: A furrow; a groove; a fissure.

SULEAH FISH
Su"le*ah fish`. (Zool.)

Defn: A coarse fish of India, used in making a breakfast relish
called burtah.

SULK
Sulk, n. Etym: [L. sulcus.]

Defn: A furrow. [Obs.]

SULK
Sulk, v. i. Etym: [See Sulkiness.]

Defn: To be silently sullen; to be morose or obstinate. T. Hook.

SULKER
Sulk"er, n.

Defn: One who sulks.

SULKILY
Sulk"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sulky manner.

SULKINESS
Sulk"i*ness, n. Etym: [For sulkenness, fr. AS. solcen slothful,
remiss, in asolcen, besolcen, properly p.p. of sealcan in asealcan to
be weak or slothful; of uncertain origin.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sulky; sullenness; moroseness;
as, sulkiness of disposition.

SULKS
Sulks, n. pl.

Defn: The condition of being sulky; a sulky mood or humor; as, to be
in the sulks.

SULKY
Sulk"y, a. [Compar. Sulkier; superl. Sulkiest.] Etym: [See Sulkiness,
and cf. Sulky, n.]

Defn: Moodly silent; sullen; sour; obstinate; morose; splenetic.

Syn.
 -- See Sullen.

SULKY
Sulk"y, n.; pl. Sulkies. Etym: [From Sulky, a.; -- so called from the
owner's desire of riding alone.]

Defn: A light two-wheeled carriage for a single person.

Note: Sulky is used adjectively in the names of several agricultural
machines drawn by horses to denote that the machine is provided with
wheels and a seat for the driver; as, sulky plow; sulky harrow; sulky
rake, etc.

SULL
Sull, n. Etym: [AS. suluh, sulh, a plow; cf. OHG. suohili a little
plow.]

Defn: A plow. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

SULLAGE
Sul"lage, n. Etym: [Cf. Suillage, Sulliage.]

1. Drainage of filth; filth collected from the street or highway;
sewage. [Obs.]
The streets were exceedingly large, well paved, having many vaults
and conveyances under them for sullage. Evelyn.

2. That which sullies or defiles. [Obs.]
It is the privilege of the celestial luminaries to receive no
tincture, sullage, or difilement from the most noisome sinks and
dunghills here below. South.

3. (Founding)

Defn: The scoria on the surface of molten metal in the ladle.

4. (Hydraul. Engin.)

Defn: Silt; mud deposited by water. Sullage piece (Founding), the
sprue of a casting. See Sprue, n., 1 (b).

SULLEN
Sul"len, a. Etym: [OE. solein, solain, lonely, sullen; through Old
French fr. (assumed) LL. solanus solitary, fr. L. solus alone. See
Sole, a.]

1. Lonely; solitary; desolate. [Obs.] Wyclif (Job iii. 14).

2. Gloomy; dismal; foreboding. Milton.
Solemn hymns so sullen dirges change. Shak.

3. Mischievous; malignant; unpropitious.
Such sullen planets at my birth did shine. Dryden.

4. Gloomily angry and silent; cross; sour; affected with ill humor;
morose.
And sullen I forsook the imperfect feast. Prior.

5. Obstinate; intractable.
Things are as sullen as we are. Tillotson.

6. Heavy; dull; sluggish. "The larger stream was placid, and even
sullen, in its course." Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Sulky; sour; cross; ill-natured; morose; peevish; fretful; ill-
humored; petulant; gloomy; malign; intractable.
 -- Sullen, Sulky. Both sullen and sulky show themselves in the
demeanor. Sullenness seems to be an habitual sulkiness, and sulkiness
a temporary sullenness. The former may be an innate disposition; the
latter, a disposition occasioned by recent injury. Thus we are in a
sullen mood, and in a sulky fit.
No cheerful breeze this sullen region knows; The dreaded east is all
the wind that blows. Pope.
-- Sul"len*ly, adv.
 -- Sul"len*ness, n.

SULLEN
Sul"len, n.

1. One who is solitary, or lives alone; a hermit. [Obs.] Piers
Plowman.

2. pl.

Defn: Sullen feelings or manners; sulks; moroseness; as, to have the
sullens. [Obs.] Shak.

SULLEN
Sul"len, v. t.

Defn: To make sullen or sluggish. [Obs.]
Sullens the whole body with . . . laziness. Feltham.

SULLEVATE
Sul"le*vate, v. t. Etym: [L. sublevare to raise up. Cf. Sublevation.]

Defn: To rouse; to excite. [Obs.] Daniel.

SULLIAGE
Sul"li*age, n. Etym: [Cf. Sullage, Suillage, or Sully, v. t.]

Defn: Foulness; filth. [Obs.]
Though we wipe away with never so much care the dirt thrown at us,
there will be left some sulliage behind. Gov. of Tongue.

SULLY
Sul"ly, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sullied; p. pr. & vb. n. Sullying.] Etym:
[OE. sulien, AS. sylian, fr. sol mire; akin to G. suhle mire, sich,
suhlen to wallow, Sw. sola to bemire, Dan. sole, Goth. bisaulijan to
defile.]

Defn: To soil; to dirty; to spot; to tarnish; to stain; to darken; --
used literally and figuratively; as, to sully a sword; to sully a
person's reputation.
Statues sullied yet with sacrilegious smoke. Roscommon.
No spots to sully the brightness of this solemnity. Atterbury.

SULLY
Sul"ly, v. i.

Defn: To become soiled or tarnished.
Silvering will sully and canker more than gilding. Bacon.

SULLY
Sul"ly, n.; pl. Sullies (.

Defn: Soil; tarnish; stain.
A noble and triumphant merit breaks through little spots and sullies
in his reputation. Spectator.

SULPHACID
Sulph*ac"id, n. Etym: [Sulpho- + acid.] (Chem.)

Defn: An acid in which, to a greater or less extent, sulphur plays a
part analogous to that of oxygen in an oxyacid; thus, thiosulphuric
and sulpharsenic acids are sulphacids; -- called also sulphoacid. See
the Note under Acid, n., 2.

SULPHAMATE
Sulph*am"ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphamic acid.

SULPHAMIC
Sulph*am"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sulphamide; derived from, or related to,
a sulphamide; specifically, designating an amido acid derivative,
NH2.SO2.OH, of sulphuric acid (analogous to sulphonic acid) which is
not known in the free state, but is known in its salts.

SULPHAMIDE
Sulph*am"ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of amido compounds obtained by treating
sulphuryl chloride with various amines.

SULPHANILIC
Sulph`a*nil"ic, a. Etym: [From sulphuric + anilene.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anilene sulphonic acid
which is obtained as a white crystalline substance.

SULPHANTIMONATE
Sulph*an`ti*mo"nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphantimonic acid.

SULPHANTIMONIC
Sulph*an`ti*mon"ic, a. Etym: [Sulpho- + antimonic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of
antimony (called also thioantimonic acid) analogous to sulpharsenic
acid.

SULPHANTIMONIOUS
Sulph*an`ti*mo"ni*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of
antimony (called also thioantimonious acid) analogous to
sulpharsenious acid.

SULPHANTIMONITE
Sulph*an"ti*mo*nite`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphantimonious acid.

SULPHARSENATE
Sulph*ar"se*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulpharsenic acid.

SULPHARSENIC
Sulph`ar*sen"ic, a. Etym: [Sulpho- + arsenic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid
(called also thioarsenic acid) analogous to arsenic acid, and known
only in its salts.

SULPHARSENIOUS
Sulph`ar*se"ni*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid
(called also thioarsenious acid) analogous to arsenious acid, and
known only in its salts.

SULPHARSENITE
Sulph*ar"se*nite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulpharsenious acid.

SULPHATE
Sul"phate, n. Etym: [NL. sulphas, sulphatis, fr. L. sulphur, sulfur,
brimstone, sulphur: cf. F. sulfate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphuric acid.

SULPHATIC
Sul*phat"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, resembling, or containing, a sulphate or
sulphates.

SULPHATO-
Sul"pha*to-. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting a sulphate as
an ingredient in certain double salts; as, sulphato-carbonate. [R.]

SULPHAURATE
Sulph*au"rate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphauric acid.

SULPHAURIC
Sulph*au"ric, a. Etym: [Sulpho- + aurum.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of
gold (aurum), known only in its salts.

SULPHIDE
Sul"phide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of sulphur, or one so regarded; -- formerly
called sulphuret. Double sulphide (Chem.), a compound of two
sulphides.
 -- Hydrogen sulphide. (Chem.) See under Hydrogen.
 -- Metallic sulphide, a binary compound of sulphur with a metal.

SULPHINATE
Sul"phi*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of a sulphinic acid.

SULPHINDIGOTIC
Sulph*in`di*got"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphonic acid obtained,
as a blue solution, by dissolving indigo in sulphuric acid; --
formerly called also cerulic sulphuric acid, but properly called
indigo-disulphonic acid.

SULPHINE
Sul"phine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of basic compounds which consist
essentially of sulphur united with hydrocarbon radicals. In general
they are oily or crystalline deliquescent substances having a
peculiar odor; as, trimethyl sulphine, (CH3)3S.OH. Cf. Sulphonium.

SULPHINIC
Sul*phin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of a series of acids
regarded as acid ethereal salts of hyposulphurous acid; as, methyl
sulphinic acid, CH3.SO.OH, a thick unstable liquid.

SULPHINIDE
Sul"phi*nide, n. Etym: [Sulpho- + amine + anhydride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white or yellowish crystalline substance, C6H4.(SO2.CO).NH,
produced artificially by the oxidation of a sulphamic derivative of
toluene. It is the sweetest substance known, having over two hundred
times the sweetening power of sugar, and is known in commerce under
the name of saccharine. It has acid properties and forms salts (which
are inaccurately called saccharinates). I. Remsen.

SULPHION
Sul"phi*on, n. Etym: [Sulpho- + ion.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical, SO4, regarded as forming the acid or
negative constituent of sulphuric acid and the sulphates in
electrolytic decomposition; -- so called in accordance with the
binary theory of salts. [Written also sulphione.]

SULPHIONIDE
Sulph*i"on*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of sulphion, or one so regarded; thus,
sulphuric acid, Hsulphionide.

SULPHITE
Sul"phite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sulfite. See Sulphur.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphurous acid.

SULPHO-
Sul"pho-. (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix (also used adjectively) designating sulphur as an
ingredient in certain compounds. Cf. Thio-.

SULPHOARSENIC
Sul`pho*ar*sen"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, sulphur and arsenic; -- said
of an acid which is the same as arsenic acid with the substitution of
sulphur for oxygen.

SULPHOCARBONATE
Sul`pho*car"bon*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphocarbonic acid; a thiocarbonate.

SULPHOCARBONIC
Sul`pho*car*bon"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphacid, H2CSO2 (called
also thiocarbonic acid), or an acid, H2CS3, analogous to carbonic
acid, obtained as a yellow oily liquid of a pungent odor, and forming
salts.

SULPHOCYANATE
Sul`pho*cy"a*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphocyanic acid; -- also called thiocyanate, and
formerly inaccurately sulphocyanide. Ferric sulphocyanate (Chem.), a
dark red crystalline substance usually obtained in a blood-red
solution, and recognized as a test for ferric iron.

SULPHOCYANIC
Sul`pho*cy*an"ic, a. Etym: [See Sulphur, Cyanic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, derived from, or designating, a sulphacid,
HSCN, analogous to cyanic acid, and obtained as a colorless
deliquescent crystalline substance, having a bitter saline taste, and
not poisonous.

SULPHOCYANIDE
Sul`pho*cy"a*nide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Sulphocyanate.

SULPHOCYANOGEN
Sul`pho*cy*an"o*gen, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Persulphocyanogen. [Obs.]

SULPHONAL
Sul"pho*nal, n. (Med.)

Defn: A substance employed as a hypnotic, produced by the union of
mercaptan and acetone.

SULPHONATE
Sul"pho*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphonic acid.

SULPHONE
Sul"phone, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Any one of a series of compounds analogous to the ketones, and
consisting of the sulphuryl group united with two hydrocarbon
radicals; as, dimethyl sulphone, (CH.SO

SULPHONIC
Sul*phon"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or derived from, a sulphone; -- used
specifically to designate any one of a series of acids (regarded as
acid ethereal salts of sulphurous acid) obtained by the oxidation of
the mercaptans, or by treating sulphuric acid with certain aromatic
bases (as benzene); as, phenyl sulphonic acid, C6H5.SO2.OH, a stable
colorless crystalline substance. Sulphonic group (Chem.), the
hypothetical radical, SO2.OH, the characteristic residue of sulphonic
acids.

SULPHONIUM
Sul*pho"ni*um, n. Etym: [Sulphur + ammonium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical, SH3, regarded as the type and nucleus
of the sulphines.

SULPHOPHOSPHATE
Sul`pho*phos"phate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphophosphoric acid.

SULPHOPHOSPHITE
Sul`pho*phos"phite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphophosphorous acid.

SULPHOPHOSPHORIC
Sul`pho*phos*phor"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical sulphacid of
phosphorus, analogous to phosphoric acid, and known in its salts.

SULPHOPHOSPHOROUS
Sul`pho*phos"phor*ous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a hypothetical acid of
phosphorus, analogous to phosphorous acid, and known in its salts.

SULPHOSALT
Sul"pho*salt`, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of a sulphacid.

SULPHOSTANNATE
Sul`pho*stan"nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphostannic acid.

SULPHOSTANNIC
Sul`pho*stan"nic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a sulphacid of tin (more
exactly called metasulphostannic acid), which is obtained as a dark
brown amorphous substance, H

SULPHOTUNGSTATE
Sul`pho*tung"state, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sulphotungstic acid.

SULPHOTUNGSTIC
Sul`pho*tung"stic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, hypothetical sulphacid of
tungsten (called also sulphowolframic acid), analogous to sulphuric
acid, and known in its salts.

SULPHOVINIC
Sul`pho*vin"ic, a. Etym: [Sulpho- + vinum wine: cf. F. sulfovinique.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, and formerly designating, ethylsulphuric
acid.

SULPHUR
Sul"phur, n. Etym: [L., better sulfur: cf. F. soufre.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A nonmetallic element occurring naturally in large quantities,
either combined as in the sulphides (as pyrites) and sulphates (as
gypsum), or native in volcanic regions, in vast beds mixed with
gypsum and various earthy materials, from which it is melted out.
Symbol S. Atomic weight 32. The specific gravity of ordinary
octohedral sulphur is 2.05; of prismatic sulphur, 1.96.

Note: It is purified by distillation, and is obtained as a lemon-
yellow powder (by sublimation), called flour, or flowers, of sulphur,
or in cast sticks called roll sulphur, or brimstone. It burns with a
blue flame and a peculiar suffocating odor. It is an ingredient of
gunpowder, is used on friction matches, and in medicine (as a
laxative and insecticide), but its chief use is in the manufacture of
sulphuric acid. Sulphur can be obtained in two crystalline
modifications, in orthorhombic octahedra, or in monoclinic prisms,
the former of which is the more stable at ordinary temperatures.
Sulphur is the type, in its chemical relations, of a group of
elements, including selenium and tellurium, called collectively the
sulphur group, or family. In many respects sulphur resembles oxygen.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of yellow or orange butterflies of
the subfamily Pierin?; as, the clouded sulphur (Eurymus, or Colias,
philodice), which is the common yellow butterfly of the Eastern
United States. Amorphous sulphur (Chem.), an elastic variety of
sulphur of a resinous appearance, obtained by pouring melted sulphur
into water. On standing, it passes back into a brittle crystalline
modification.
 -- Liver of sulphur. (Old Chem.) See Hepar.
 -- Sulphur acid. (Chem.) See Sulphacid.
 -- Sulphur alcohol. (Chem.) See Mercaptan.
 -- Sulphur auratum Etym: [L.] (Old Chem.), a golden yellow powder,
consisting of antimonic sulphide, Sb2S5, -- formerly a famous
nostrum.
 -- Sulphur base (Chem.), an alkaline sulphide capable of acting as a
base in the formation of sulphur salts according to the old dual
theory of salts. [Archaic] -- Sulphur dioxide (Chem.), a colorless
gas, SO2, of a pungent, suffocating odor, produced by the burning of
sulphur. It is employed chiefly in the production of sulphuric acid,
and as a reagent in bleaching; -- called also sulphurous anhydride,
and formerly sulphurous acid.
 -- Sulphur ether (Chem.), a sulphide of hydrocarbon radicals, formed
like the ordinary ethers, which are oxides, but with sulphur in the
place of oxygen.
 -- Sulphur salt (Chem.), a salt of a sulphacid; a sulphosalt.
 -- Sulphur showers, showers of yellow pollen, resembling sulphur in
appearance, often carried from pine forests by the wind to a great
distance.
 -- Sulphur trioxide (Chem.), a white crystalline solid, SO3,
obtained by oxidation of sulphur dioxide. It dissolves in water with
a hissing noise and the production of heat, forming sulphuric acid,
and is employed as a dehydrating agent. Called also sulphuric
anhydride, and formerly sulphuric acid.
 -- Sulphur whale. (Zool.) See Sulphur-bottom.
 -- Vegetable sulphur (Bot.), lycopodium powder. See under
Lycopodium.

SULPHURATE
Sul"phu*rate, a. Etym: [L. sulphuratus, sulfuratus.]

Defn: Sulphureous. [Poetic & R.] Dr. H. More.

SULPHURATE
Sul"phu*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sulphurated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sulphurating.] (Chem.)

Defn: To sulphurize. [Archaic]

SULPHURATION
Sul`phu*ra"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sulfuration, L. sulphuratio,
sulfuratio, a vein of sulphur.]

Defn: The act or process of combining or impregnating with sulphur or
its compounds; also, the state of being so combined or impregnated.

SULPHURATOR
Sul"phu*ra`tor, n.

Defn: An apparatus for impregnating with, or exposing to the action
of, sulphur; especially, an apparatus for fumigating or bleaching by
means of the fumes of burning sulphur.

SULPHUR-BOTTOM
Sul`phur-bot"tom, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A very large whalebone whale of the genus Sibbaldius, having a
yellowish belly; especially, S. sulfureus of the North Pacific, and
S. borealis of the North Atlantic; -- called also sulphur whale.

SULPHUREITY
Sul`phu*re"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sulphureous. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SULPHUREOUS
Sul*phu"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. sulphureus, sulfureus.]

Defn: Consisting of sulphur; having the qualities of sulphur, or
brimstone; impregnated with sulphur.
Her snakes united, sulphureous waters drink. Pope.
-- Sul*phu"re*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Sul*phu"re*ous*ness, n.

SULPHURET
Sul"phu*ret, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A sulphide; as, a sulphuret of potassium. [Obsoles.]

SULPHURETED
Sul"phu*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with sulphur; sulphurized. [Written
also sulphuretted.] Sulphureted hydrogen. (Chem.) See Hydrogen
sulphide, under Hydrogen.

SULPHURIC
Sul*phu"ric, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sulfurique.]

1. Of or pertaining to sulphur; as, a sulphuric smell.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Derived from, or containing, sulphur; specifically, designating
those compounds in which the element has a higher valence as
contrasted with the sulphurous compounds; as, sulphuric acid.
Sulphuric acid. (a) Sulphur trioxide (see under Sulphur); -- formerly
so called on the dualistic theory of salts. [Obs.] (b) A heavy,
corrosive, oily liquid, H2SO4, colorless when pure, but usually
yellowish or brownish, produced by the combined action of sulphur
dioxide, oxygen (from the air), steam, and nitric fumes. It attacks
and dissolves many metals and other intractable substances, sets free
most acids from their salts, and is used in the manufacture of
hydrochloric and nitric acids, of soda, of bleaching powders, etc. It
is also powerful dehydrating agent, having a strong affinity for
water, and eating and corroding paper, wood, clothing, etc. It is
thus used in the manufacture of ether, of imitation parchment, and of
nitroglycerin. It is also used in etching iron, in removing iron
scale from forgings, in petroleum refining, etc., and in general its
manufacture is the most important and fundamental of all the chemical
industries. Formerly called vitriolic acid, and now popularly
vitriol, and oil of vitriol.
 -- Fuming sulphuric acid, or Nordhausen sulphuric acid. See
Disulphuric acid, under Disulphuric.
 -- Sulphuric anhydride, sulphur trioxide. See under Sulphur.
 -- Sulphuric ether, common an?sthetic ether; -- so called because
made by the catalytic action of sulphuric acid on alcohol. See Ether,
3 (a).

SULPHURINE
Sul"phur*ine, a.

Defn: Sulphureous. [R.]

SULPHURING
Sul"phur*ing, n.

Defn: Exposure to the fumes of burning sulphur, as in bleaching; the
process of bleaching by exposure to the fumes of sulphur.

SULPHURIZE
Sul"phur*ize, v. t. (Chem.)

Defn: To combine or impregnate with sulphur or any of its compounds;
as, to sulphurize caoutchouc in vulcanizing.

SULPHUROUS
Sul"phur*ous, a. Etym: [L. sulphurosus, sulfurosus: cf. F.
sulfureux.]

1. Of or pertaining to sulphur.

2. (Chem.)
(a) Derived from, or containing, sulphur; specifically, designating
those compounds in which the element has a lower valence as
contrasted with the sulphuric compounds.
(b) Having the characteristic odor of sulphur dioxide, or of hydrogen
sulphide, or of other sulphur compounds. Sulphurous acid. (a) Sulphur
dioxide. See under Sulphur. [Obs.] (b) An acid, H2SO3, not known in
the free state except as a solution of sulphur dioxide in water, but
forming a well-known series of salts (the sulphites).
 -- Sulphurous anhydride (Chem.), sulphur dioxide. See under Sulphur.

SULPHURWORT
Sul"phur*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The hog's fennel. See under Fennel.

SULPHURY
Sul"phur*y, a.

Defn: Resembling, or partaking of the nature of, sulphur; having the
qualities of sulphur.

SULPHURYL
Sul"phur*yl, n. Etym: [Sulphur + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical radical SO2; -- called also sulphon. Sulphuryl
chloride, a chloride, pungent, fuming liquid, SO2.Cl2, obtained by
the action of phosphorus pentachloride on sulphur trioxide. On
treatment with water it decomposes into sulphuric and hydrochloric
acids, and is hence called also sulphuric chloranhydride.

SULPHYDRATE
Sul*phy"drate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound, analogous to a hydrate, regarded as a salt of
sulphydric acid, or as a derivative of hydrogen sulphide in which one
half of the hydrogen is replaced by a base (as potassium sulphydrate,
KSH), or as a hydrate in which the oxygen has been wholly or
partially replaced by sulphur.

SULPHYDRIC
Sul*phy"dric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen sulphide, which is
regarded as an acid, especially when in solution.

SULPICIAN
Sul*pi"cian, n. Etym: [So called after the parish of St. Sulpice in
Paris, of which the founder, Jean Jacques Olier, was pastor in 1643.]
(R. C. Ch.)

Defn: One of an order of priests established in France in 1642 to
educate men for the ministry. The order was introduced soon
afterwards into Canada, and in 1791 into the United States. [Written
also Sulpitian.]

SULTAN
Sul"tan, n. Etym: [F. sultan (cf. Sp. soldan, It. sultano, soldano),
Ar. sultan sultan, dominion. Cf. Soldan.]

Defn: A ruler, or sovereign, of a Mohammedan state; specifically, the
ruler of the Turks; the Padishah, or Grand Seignior; -- officially so
called. Sultan flower. (Bot.) See Sweet sultan, under Sweet.

SULTANA
Sul*ta"na, n. Etym: [It.]

1. The wife of a sultan; a sultaness.

2. pl.

Defn: A kind of seedless raisin produced near Smyrna in Asiatic
Turkey. Sultana bird (Zool.), the hyacinthine, or purple, gallinule.
See Illust. under Gallinule.

SULTANATE
Sul"tan*ate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sultanat.]

Defn: The rule or dominion of a sultan; sultanship.

SULTANESS
Sul"tan*ess, n.

Defn: A sultana.

SULTANIC
Sul*tan"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a sultan.

SULTAN-RED
Sul"tan-red`, a.

Defn: Having a deep red color.

SULTANRY
Sul"tan*ry, n.

Defn: The dominions of a sultan. Bacon.

SULTANSHIP
Sul"tan*ship, n.

Defn: The office or dignity of a sultan.

SULTANY
Sul"tan*y, n.

Defn: Sultanry. [Obs.] Fuller.

SULTRILY
Sul"tri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sultry manner.

SULTRINESS
Sul"tri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sultry.

SULTRY
Sul"try, a. [Compar. Sultrier; superl. Sultriest.] Etym: [From
Sweltry.]

1. Very hot, burning, and oppressive; as, Libya's sultry deserts.
Such as, born beneath the burning sky And sultry sun, betwixt the
tropics lie. Dryden.

2. Very hot and moist, or hot, close, stagnant, and oppressive, as
air.
When in the sultry glebe I faint, Or on the thirsty mountain plant.
Addison.

SULU
Su*lu", n. [Malay Suluk.]

Defn: A member of the most prominent tribe of the Moro tribes,
occupying the Sulu Archipelago; also, their language.

SUM
Sum, n. Etym: [OE. summe, somme, OF. sume, some, F. somme, L. summa,
fr. summus highest, a superlative from sub under. See Sub-, and cf.
Supreme.]

1. The aggregate of two or more numbers, magnitudes, quantities, or
particulars; the amount or whole of any number of individuals or
particulars added together; as, the sum of 5 and 7 is 12.
Take ye the sum of all the congregation. Num. i. 2.

Note: Sum is now commonly applied to an aggregate of numbers, and
number to an aggregate of persons or things.

2. A quantity of money or currency; any amount, indefinitely; as, a
sum of money; a small sum, or a large sum. "The sum of forty pound."
Chaucer.
With a great sum obtained I this freedom. Acts xxii. 28.

3. The principal points or thoughts when viewed together; the amount;
the substance; compendium; as, this is the sum of all the evidence in
the case; this is the sum and substance of his objections.

4. Height; completion; utmost degree.
Thus have I told thee all my state, and brought My story to the sum
of earthly bliss. Milton.

5. (Arith.)

Defn: A problem to be solved, or an example to be wrought out.
Macaulay.
A sum in arithmetic wherein a flaw discovered at a particular point
is ipso facto fatal to the whole. Gladstone.
A large sheet of paper . . . covered with long sums. Dickens.
Algebraic sum, as distinguished from arithmetical sum, the aggregate
of two or more numbers or quantities taken with regard to their
signs, as + or -, according to the rules of addition in algebra;
thus, the algebraic sum of -2, 8, and -1 is 5.
 -- In sum, in short; in brief. [Obs.] "In sum, the gospel . . .
prescribes every virtue to our conduct, and forbids every sin."
Rogers.

SUM
Sum, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Summed; p. pr. & vb. n. Summing.] Etym: [Cf.
F. sommer, LL. summare.]

1. To bring together into one whole; to collect into one amount; to
cast up, as a column of figures; to ascertain the totality of; --
usually with up.
The mind doth value every moment, and then the hour doth rather sum
up the moments, than divide the day. Bacon.

2. To bring or collect into a small compass; to comprise in a few
words; to condense; -- usually with up.
"Go to the ant, thou sluggard," in few words sums up the moral of
this fable. L'Estrange.
He sums their virtues in himself alone. Dryden.

3. (Falconry)

Defn: To have (the feathers) full grown; to furnish with complete, or
full-grown, plumage.
But feathered soon and fledge They summed their pens [wings]. Milton.
Summing up, a compendium or abridgment; a recapitulation; a resume; a
summary.

Syn.
 -- To cast up; collect; comprise; condense; comprehend; compute.

SUMAC; SUMACH
Su"mac, Su"mach, n. Etym: [F. sumac, formerly sumach (cf. Sp.
zumaque), fr. Ar. summaq.] [Written also shumac.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Rhus, shrubs or small trees with usually
compound leaves and clusters of small flowers. Some of the species
are used in tanning, some in dyeing, and some in medicine. One, the
Japanese Rhus vernicifera, yields the celebrated Japan varnish, or
lacquer.

2. The powdered leaves, peduncles, and young branches of certain
species of the sumac plant, used in tanning and dyeing. Poison sumac.
(Bot.) See under Poison.

SUMATRA LEAF
Su*ma"tra leaf.

Defn: A thin, elastic, uniformly light-colored tobacco leaf, raised
in Sumatra and extensively used for cigar wrappers.

SUMATRAN
Su*ma"tran, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sumatra or its inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Sumatra.

SUMBUL
Sum"bul, n. Etym: [Pers.]

Defn: The musky root of an Asiatic umbelliferous plant, Ferula
Sumbul. It is used in medicine as a stimulant. [Written also sumbal.]
-- Sum*bul"ic, a.

SUMERIAN
Su*me"ri*an, a. [Written also Sumirian.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the region of lower Babylonia, which was
anciently called Sumer, or its inhabitants or their language.

SUMERIAN
Su*me"ri*an, n. [Written also Sumirian.]

Defn: A native of lower Babylonia, anciently called Sumer.

SUMLESS
Sum"less, a.

Defn: Not to be summed up or computed; so great that the amount can
not be ascertained; incalculable; inestimable. "Sumless treasure."
Pope.

SUMMARILY
Sum"ma*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a summary manner.

SUMMARIST
Sum"ma*rist, n.

Defn: One who summarized.

SUMMARIZE
Sum"ma*rize, v. t.

Defn: To comprise in, or reduce to, a summary; to present briefly.
Chambers.

SUMMARY
Sum"ma*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sommaire. See Sum.]

1. Formed into a sum; summed up; reduced into a narrow compass, or
into few words; short; brief; concise; compendious; as, a summary
statement of facts.

2. Hence, rapidly performed; quickly executed; as, a summary process;
to take summary vengeance.

Syn.
 -- Short; brief; concise; compendious; succinct.

SUMMARY
Sum"ma*ry, n.; pl. Summaries. Etym: [F. sommaire, or L. summarium.
See Summary, a.]

Defn: A general or comprehensive statement; an abridged account; an
abstract, abridgment, or compendium, containing the sum or substance
of a fuller account.

SUMMATION
Sum*ma"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sommation. See Sum, v. t.]

Defn: The act of summing, or forming a sum, or total amount; also, an
aggregate.
Of this series no summation is possible to a finite intellect. De
Quincey.

SUMMER
Sum"mer, n. Etym: [From Sum, v.]

Defn: One who sums; one who casts up an account.

SUMMER
Sum"mer, n. Etym: [F. sommier a rafter, the same word as sommier a
beast of burden. See Sumpter.] (Arch.)

Defn: A large stone or beam placed horizontally on columns, piers,
posts, or the like, serving for various uses. Specifically: (a) The
lintel of a door or window. (b) The commencement of a cross vault.
(c) A central floor timber, as a girder, or a piece reaching from a
wall to a girder. Called also summertree.

SUMMER
Sum"mer, n. Etym: [OE. sumer, somer, AS. sumor, sumer; akin to
OFries. sumur, D. zomer, OS. sumar, G. sommer, OHG. & Icel. sumar,
Dan. sommer, Sw. sommar, W. haf, Zend hama, Skr. sama year. *292.]

Defn: The season of the year in which the sun shines most directly
upon any region; the warmest period of the year.

Note: North of the equator summer is popularly taken to include the
months of June, July, and August. Astronomically it may be
considered, in the northern hemisphere, to begin with the summer
solstice, about June 21st, and to end with the autumnal equinox,
about September 22d. Indian summer, in North America, a period of
warm weather late in autumn, usually characterized by a clear sky,
and by a hazy or smoky appearance of the atmosphere, especially near
the horizon. The name is derived probably from the custom of the
Indians of using this time in preparation for winter by laying in
stores of food.
 -- Saint Martin's summer. See under Saint.
 -- Summer bird (Zool.), the wryneck. [Prov. Eng.] -- Summer colt,
the undulating state of the air near the surface of the ground when
heated. [Eng.] -- Summer complaint (Med.), a popular term for any
diarrheal disorder occurring in summer, especially when produced by
heat and indigestion.
 -- Summer coot (Zool.), the American gallinule. [Local, U.S.] --
Summer cypress (Bot.), an annual plant (Kochia Scoparia) of the
Goosefoot family. It has narrow, ciliate, crowded leaves, and is
sometimes seen in gardens.
 -- Summer duck. (Zool.) (a) The wood duck. (b) The garganey, or
summer teal. See Illust. of Wood duck, under Wood.
 -- Summer fallow, land uncropped and plowed, etc., during the
summer, in order to pulverize the soil and kill the weeds.
 -- Summer rash (Med.), prickly heat. See under Prickly.
 -- Summer sheldrake (Zool.), the hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.] --
Summer snipe. (Zool.) (a) The dunlin. (b) The common European
sandpiper. (c) The green sandpiper.
 -- Summer tanager (Zool.), a singing bird (Piranga rubra) native of
the Middle and Southern United States. The male is deep red, the
female is yellowish olive above and yellow beneath. Called also
summer redbird.
 -- Summer teal (Zool.), the blue-winged teal. [Local, U.S.] --
Summer wheat, wheat that is sown in the spring, and matures during
the summer following. See Spring wheat.
 -- Summer yellowbird. (Zool.) See Yellowbird.

SUMMER
Sum"mer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Summered; p. pr. & vb. n. Summering.]

Defn: To pass the summer; to spend the warm season; as, to summer in
Switzerland.
The fowls shall summer upon them. Isa. xviii. 6.

SUMMER
Sum"mer, v. t.

Defn: To keep or carry through the summer; to feed during the summer;
as, to summer stock.

SUMMER-FALLOW
Sum"mer-fal"low, v. t.

Defn: To plow and work in summer, in order to prepare for wheat or
other crop; to plow and let lie fallow.

SUMMERHOUSE
Sum"mer*house`, n.; pl. Summerhouses (.

Defn: A rustic house or apartment in a garden or park, to be used as
a pleasure resort in summer. Shak.

SUMMERLINESS
Sum"mer*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being like summer. [R.] Fuller.

SUMMERSAULT; SUMMERSET
Sum"mer*sault, Sum"mer*set, n.

Defn: See Somersault, Somerset.

SUMMERSTIR
Sum"mer*stir`, v. t.

Defn: To summer-fallow.

SUMMERTIDE
Sum"mer*tide`, n.

Defn: Summer time.

SUMMERTREE
Sum"mer*tree`, n. Etym: [Summer a beam + tree.] (Arch.)

Defn: A summer. See 2d Summer.

SUMMERY
Sum"mer*y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to summer; like summer; as, a summery day.

SUMMIST
Sum"mist, n.

Defn: One who sums up; one who forms an abridgment or summary. Sir E.
Dering.

SUMMIT
Sum"mit, n. Etym: [F. sommet, dim. of OF. som, sum, top, from L.
summum, from summus highest. See Sum, n.]

1. The top; the highest point.
Fixed on the summit of the highest mount. Shak.

2. The highest degree; the utmost elevation; the acme; as, the summit
of human fame.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The most elevated part of a bivalve shell, or the part in which
the hinge is situated. Summit level, the highest level of a canal, a
railroad, or the like, in surmounting an ascent.

SUMMITLESS
Sum"mit*less, a.

Defn: Having no summit.

SUMMITY
Sum"mit*y, n. Etym: [L. summitas, fr. summus highest: cf. F. sommite.
See Sum, n.]

1. The height or top of anything. [Obs.] Swift.

2. The utmost degree; perfection. [Obs.] Hallywell.

SUMMON
Sum"mon, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Summoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Summoning.]
Etym: [OE. somonen, OF. sumundre, semondre, F. semondre, from
(assumed) LL. summonere, for L. summonere to give a hint; sub under +
monere to admonish, to warn. See Monition, and cf. Submonish.]

1. To call, bid, or cite; to notify to come to appear; -- often with
up.
Stiffen the sinews, summon up the blood. Shak.
Trumpets summon him to war. Dryden.

2. To give notice to, or command to appear, as in court; to cite by
authority; as, to summon witnesses.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: To call upon to surrender, as a fort.

Syn.
 -- To call; cite; notify; convene; convoke; excite; invite; bid. See
Call.

SUMMONER
Sum"mon*er, n. Etym: [OE. somner, sompnour, OF. semoneor, F.
semonneur. See Summon, v. t.]

Defn: One who summons; one who cites by authority; specifically, a
petty officer formerly employed to summon persons to appear in court;
an apparitor.

SUMMONS
Sum"mons, n.; pl. Summonses. Etym: [OE. somouns, OF. sumunse,
semonse, semonce, F. semonce, semondre to summon, OF. p.p. semons.
See Summon, v.]

1. The act of summoning; a call by authority, or by the command of a
superior, to appear at a place named, or to attend to some duty.
Special summonses by the king. Hallam.
This summons . . . unfit either to dispute or disobey. Bp. Fell.
He sent to summon the seditious, and to offer pardon; but neither
summons nor pardon was regarded. Sir J. Hayward.

2. (Law)

Defn: A warning or citation to appear in court; a written
notification signed by the proper officer, to be served on a person,
warning him to appear in court at a day specified, to answer to the
plaintiff, testify as a witness, or the like.

3. (Mil.)

Defn: A demand to surrender.

SUMMONS
Sum"mons, v. t.

Defn: To summon. [R. or Colloq.] Swift.

SUMMUM BONUM
Sum"mum bo"num. [L.] (Philos.)

Defn: The supreme or highest good, -- referring to the object of
human life.

SUMNER
Sum"ner, n.

Defn: A summoner. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

SUMOOM
Su*moom", n.

Defn: See Simoom.

SUMP
Sump, n. Etym: [Cf. G. sumpf a sump in a mine, a swamp, akin to LG.
sump, D. somp a swamp, Dan. & Sw. sump, and perhaps to E. swamp.]

1. (Metal.)

Defn: A round pit of stone, lined with clay, for receiving the metal
on its first fusion. Ray.

2. The cistern or reservoir made at the lowest point of a mine, from
which is pumped the water which accumulates there.

3. A pond of water for salt works. Knight.

4. A puddle or dirty pool. [Prov. Eng.] Sump fuse, a fuse used in
blasting under water.
 -- Sump men (Mining), the men who sink the sump in a mine.

SUMPH
Sumph, n.

Defn: A dunce; a blockhead. [Scot.]

SUMPITAN
Sum"pi*tan, n.

Defn: A kind of blowgun for discharging arrows, -- used by the
savages of Borneo and adjacent islands.

SUMPTER
Sump"ter, n. Etym: [OF. sommetier the driver of a pack horse; akin to
OF. & F. sommier a pack horse, L. sagmarius, fr. sagma a pack saddle,
in LL., a load, Gr. saj, sanj, to hang on. Cf. Seam a weight, Summer
a beam.]

1. The driver of a pack horse. [Obs.] Skeat.

2. A pack; a burden. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

3. An animal, especially a horse, that carries packs or burdens; a
baggage horse. Holinshed.

SUMPTER
Sump"ter, a.

Defn: Carrying pack or burdens on the back; as, a sumpter horse; a
sumpter mule. Bacon.

SUMPTION
Sump"tion, n. Etym: [L. sumptio, fr. sumere, sumptum, to take.]

1. A taking. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

2. (Logic)

Defn: The major premise of a syllogism.

SUMPTUARY
Sump"tu*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. sumptuarius, fr. sumptus expense, cost,
fr. sumere, sumptum, to take, use, spend; sub under + emere to take,
buy: cf. F. somptuaire. See Redeem.]

Defn: Relating to expense; regulating expense or expenditure. Bacon.
Sumptuary laws or regulations, laws intended to restrain or limit the
expenditure of citizens in apparel, food, furniture, etc.; laws which
regulate the prices of commodities and the wages of labor; laws which
forbid or restrict the use of certain articles, as of luxurious
apparel.

SUMPTUOSITY
Sump`tu*os"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. sumptuositas: cf. F. somptuosite.]

Defn: Expensiveness; costliness; sumptuousness. [R.] Sir W. Raleigh.

SUMPTUOUS
Sump"tu*ous, a. Etym: [L. sumptuosus, fr. sumptus expanse, cost: cf.
F. somptueux. See Sumptuary.]

Defn: Involving large outlay or expense; costly; expensive; hence,
luxurious; splendid; magnificient; as, a sumptuous house or table;
sumptuous apparel.
We are too magnificient and sumptuous in our tables and attendance.
Atterbury.
She spoke, and turned her sumptuous head, with eyes Of shining
expectation fixed on mine. Tennyson.
-- Sump"tu*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Sump"tu*ous*ness, n.

SUN
Sun, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sunn.

SUN
Sun, n. Etym: [OE. sunne, sonne, AS. sunne; akin to OFries. sunne, D.
zon, OS. & OHG. sunna, G. sonne, Icel. sunna, Goth. sunna; perh. fr.
same root as L. sol. *297. Cf. Solar, South.]

1. The luminous orb, the light of which constitutes day, and its
absence night; the central body round which the earth and planets
revolve, by which they are held in their orbits, and from which they
receive light and heat. Its mean distance from the earth is about
92,500,000 miles, and its diameter about 860,000.

Note: Its mean apparent diameter as seen from the earth is 32' 4",
and it revolves on its own axis once in 25photosphere, above which is
an envelope consisting partly of hydrogen, called the chromosphere,
which can be seen only through the spectroscope, or at the time of a
total solar eclipse. Above the chromosphere, and sometimes extending
out millions of miles, are luminous rays or streams of light which
are visible only at the time of a total eclipse, forming the solar
corona.

2. Any heavenly body which forms the center of a system of orbs.

3. The direct light or warmth of the sun; sunshine.
Lambs that did frisk in the sun. Shak.

4. That which resembles the sun, as in splendor or importance; any
source of light, warmth, or animation.
For the Lord God is a sun and shield. Ps. lxxiv. 11.
I will never consent to put out the sun of sovereignity to posterity.
Eikon Basilike.
Sun and planet wheels (Mach.), an ingenious contrivance for
converting reciprocating motion, as that of the working beam of a
steam engine, into rotatory motion. It consists of a toothed wheel
(called the sun wheel), firmly secured to the shaft it is desired to
drive, and another wheel (called the planet wheel) secured to the end
of a connecting rod. By the motion of the connecting rod, the planet
wheel is made to circulate round the central wheel on the shaft,
communicating to this latter a velocity of revolution the double of
its own. G. Francis.
 -- Sun angel (Zool.), a South American humming bird of the genus
Heliangelos, noted for its beautiful colors and the brilliant luster
of the feathers of its throat.
 -- Sun animalcute. (Zool.) See Heliozoa.
 -- Sun bath (Med.), exposure of a patient to the sun's rays;
insolation.
 -- Sun bear (Zool.), a species of bear (Helarctos Malayanus) native
of Southern Asia and Borneo. It has a small head and short neck, and
fine short glossy fur, mostly black, but brownish on the nose. It is
easily tamed. Called also bruang, and Malayan bear.
 -- Sun beetle (Zool.), any small lustrous beetle of the genus Amara.
 -- Sun bittern (Zool.), a singular South American bird (Eurypyga
helias), in some respects related both to the rails and herons. It is
beautifully variegated with white, brown, and black. Called also
sunbird, and tiger bittern.
 -- Sun fever (Med.), the condition of fever produced by sun stroke.
 -- Sun gem (Zool.), a Brazilian humming bird (Heliactin cornutus).
Its head is ornamented by two tufts of bright colored feathers, fiery
crimson at the base and greenish yellow at the tip. Called also
Horned hummer.
 -- Sun grebe (Zool.), the finfoot.
 -- Sun picture, a picture taken by the agency of the sun's rays; a
photograph.
 -- Sun spots (Astron.), dark spots that appear on the sun's disk,
consisting commonly of a black central portion with a surrounding
border of lighter shade, and usually seen only by the telescope, but
sometimes by the naked eye. They are very changeable in their figure
and dimensions, and vary in size from mere apparent points to spaces
of 50,000 miles in diameter. The term sun spots is often used to
include bright spaces (called facul?) as well as dark spaces (called
macul?). Called also solar spots. See Illustration in Appendix.
 -- Sun star (Zool.), any one of several species of starfishes
belonging to Solaster, Crossaster, and allied genera, having numerous
rays.
 -- Sun trout (Zool.), the squeteague.
 -- Sun wheel. (Mach.) See Sun and planet wheels, above.
 -- Under the sun, in the world; on earth. "There is no new thing
under the sun." Eccl. i. 9.

Note: Sun is often used in the formation of compound adjectives of
obvious meaning; as, sun-bright, sun-dried, sun-gilt, sunlike, sun-
lit, sun-scorched, and the like.

SUN
Sun, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sunned; p. pr. & vb. n. Sunning.]

Defn: To expose to the sun's rays; to warm or dry in the sun; as, to
sun cloth; to sun grain.
Then to sun thyself in open air. Dryden.

SUNBEAM
Sun"beam`, n. Etym: [AS. sunnebeam.]

Defn: A beam or ray of the sun. "Evening sunbeams." Keble.
Thither came Uriel, gliding through the even On a sunbeam. Milton.

SUNBIRD
Sun"bird`, n. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of numerous species of small brilliantly colored birds of
the family Nectariniid?, native of Africa, Southern Asia, the East
Indies, and Australia. In external appearance and habits they
somewhat resemble humming birds, but they are true singing birds
(Oscines).
(b) The sun bittern.

SUNBLINK
Sun"blink`, n.

Defn: A glimpse or flash of the sun. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

SUNBONNET
Sun"bon"net, n.

Defn: A bonnet, generally made of some thin or light fabric,
projecting beyond the face, and commonly having a cape, -- worn by
women as a protection against the sun.

SUNBOW
Sun"bow`, n.

Defn: A rainbow; an iris. Byron.

SUNBURN
Sun"burn`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sunburned or Sunburnt (; p. pr. & vb.
n. Sunburning.]

Defn: To burn or discolor by the sun; to tan.
Sunburnt and swarthy though she be. Dryden.

SUNBURN
Sun"burn`, n.

Defn: The burning or discoloration produced on the skin by the heat
of the sun; tan.

SUN-BURNER
Sun"-burn`er, n.

Defn: A circle or cluster of gas-burners for lighting and ventilating
public buildings.

SUNBURNING
Sun"burn`ing, n.

Defn: Sunburn; tan. Boyle.

SUNBURST
Sun"burst`, n.

Defn: A burst of sunlight.

SUNCUP
Sun"cup`, n.

Defn: A yellow flowered evening primrose (Taraxia, syn. Onothera,
ovata) native of California.

SUNDART
Sun"dart`, n.

Defn: Sunbeam. [R.] Mrs. Hemans.

SUNDAY
Sun"day, n. Etym: [AS. sunnand?g; sunne, gen. sunnan, the sun + d?g
day; akin to D. zondag, G. sonntag; -- so called because this day was
anciently dedicated to the sun, or to its worship. See Sun, and Day.]

Defn: The first day of the week, -- consecrated among Christians to
rest from secular employments, and to religious worship; the
Christian Sabbath; the Lord's Day. Advent Sunday, Low Sunday, Passion
Sunday, etc. See under Advent, Low, etc.

Syn.
 -- See Sabbath.

SUNDAY
Sun"day, a.

Defn: Belonging to the Christian Sabbath. Sunday letter. See
Dominical letter, under Dominical.
 -- Sunday school. See under School.

SUNDER
Sun"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sundered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sundering.]
Etym: [OE. sundren, AS. sundrain (in asundrain, gesundrain), from
sundor asunder, separately, apart; akin to D. zonder, prep., without,
G. sonder separate, as prep., without, sondern but, OHG. suntar
separately, Icel. sundr asunder, Sw. & Dan. sonder, Goth. sundro
alone, separately.]

Defn: To disunite in almost any manner, either by rending, cutting,
or breaking; to part; to put or keep apart; to separate; to divide;
to sever; as, to sunder a rope; to sunder a limb; to sunder friends.
It is sundered from the main land by a sandy plain. Carew.

SUNDER
Sun"der, v. i.

Defn: To part; to separate. [R.] Shak.

SUNDER
Sun"der, n. Etym: [See Sunder, v. t., and cf. Asunder.]

Defn: A separation into parts; a division or severance. In sunder,
into parts. "He breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder."
Ps. xlvi. 9.

SUNDER
Sun"der, v. t.

Defn: To expose to the sun and wind. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SUNDEW
Sun"dew`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Drosera, low bog plants whose leaves are
beset with pediceled glands which secrete a viscid fluid that
glitters like dewdrops and attracts and detains insects. After an
insect is caught, the glands curve inward like tentacles and the leaf
digests it. Called also lustwort.

SUNDIAL
Sun"di`al, n.

Defn: An instrument to show the time of day by means of the shadow of
a gnomon, or style, on a plate. Sundial shell (Zool.), any shell of
the genus Solarium. See Solarium.

SUNDOG
Sun"dog`, n. (Meteorol.)

Defn: A luminous spot occasionally seen a few degrees from the sun,
supposed to be formed by the intersection of two or more halos, or in
a manner similar to that of halos.

SUNDOWN
Sun"down`, n.

1. The setting of the sun; sunset. "When sundown skirts the moor."
Tennyson.

2. A kind of broad-brimmed sun hat worn by women.

SUNDOWNER
Sun"down`er, n.

Defn: A tramp or vagabond in the Australian bush; -- so called from
his coming to sheep stations at sunset of ask for supper and a bed,
when it is too late to work; -- called also traveler and swagman (but
not all swagmen are sundowners).

Sundowners, -- men who loaf about till sunset, and then come in with
the demand for unrefusable rations.
Francis Adams.

SUN-DRIED
Sun"-dried`, a.

Defn: Dried by the heat of the sun. "Sun-dried brick." Sir T.
Herbert.

SUNDRIES
Sun"dries, n. pl.

Defn: Many different or small things; sundry things.

SUNDRILY
Sun"dri*ly, adv.

Defn: In sundry ways; variously.

SUNDROPS
Sun"drops`, n.  [Sun + drop.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of the several species of Kneiffia, esp. K. fruticosa
(syn. Onothera fruticosa), of the Evening-primrose family, having
flowers that open by daylight.

SUNDRY
Sun"dry, a. Etym: [OE. sundry, sondry, AS. syndrig, fr. sundor
asunder. See Sunder, v. t.]

1. Several; divers; more than one or two; various. "Sundry wines."
Chaucer. "Sundry weighty reasons." Shak.
With many a sound of sundry melody. Chaucer.
Sundry foes the rural realm surround. Dryden.

2. Separate; diverse. [Obs.]
Every church almost had the Bible of a sundry translation. Coleridge.
All and sundry, all collectively, and each separately.

SUNDRYMAN
Sun"dry*man, n.; pl. Sundrymen (.

Defn: One who deals in sundries, or a variety of articles.

SUNFISH
Sun"fish`, n. (Zool.)
(a) A very large oceanic plectognath fish (Mola mola, Mola rotunda,
or Orthagoriscus mola) having a broad body and a truncated tail.
(b) Any one of numerous species of perch-like North American fresh-
water fishes of the family Centrachid?. They have a broad, compressed
body, and strong dorsal spines. Among the common species of the
Eastern United States are Lepomis gibbosus (called also bream,
pondfish, pumpkin seed, and sunny), the blue sunfish, or dollardee
(L. pallidus), and the long-eared sunfish (L. auritus). Several of
the species are called also pondfish.
(c) The moonfish, or bluntnosed shiner.
(d) The opah.
(e) The basking, or liver, shark.
(f) Any large jellyfish.

SUNFLOWER
Sun"flow`er, n.

Defn: Any plant of the genus Helianthus; -- so called probably from
the form and color of its flower, which is large disk with yellow
rays. The commonly cultivated sunflower is Helianthus annuus, a
native of America.

SUNFLOWER STATE
Sun"flow`er State.

Defn: Kansas; a nickname.

SUNG
Sung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Sing.

SUNGLASS
Sun"glass`, n.; pl. Sunglasses (.

Defn: A convex lens of glass for producing heat by converging the
sun's rays into a focus. "Lighting a cigar with a sunglass."
Hawthorne.

SUNGLOW
Sun"glow`, n.

Defn: A rosy flush in the sky seen after sunset.

SUNK
Sunk,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Sink. Sunk fence, a ditch with a retaining
wall, used to divide lands without defacing a landscape; a ha-ha.

SUNKEN
Sunk"en, a.

Defn: Lying on the bottom of a river or other water; sunk.

SUNLESS
Sun"less, a.

Defn: Destitute or deprived of the sun or its rays; shaded; shadowed.
The sunken glen whose sunless shrubs must weep. Byron.

SUNLIGHT
Sun"light`, n.

Defn: The light of the sun. Milton.

SUNLIKE
Sun"like`, a.

Defn: Like or resembling the sun. "A spot of sunlike brilliancy."
Tyndall.

SUNLIT
Sun"lit`, a.

Defn: Lighted by the sun.

SUNN
Sunn, n. Etym: [Hind. san, fr. Skr. cana.] (Bot.)

Defn: An East Indian leguminous plant (Crotalaria juncea) and its
fiber, which is also called sunn hemp. [Written also sun.]

SUNNA
Sun"na, n. Etym: [Ar. sunnah rule, law.]

Defn: A collection of traditions received by the orthodox Mohammedans
as of equal authority with the Koran.

SUNNIAH
Sun"ni*ah, n.

Defn: One of the sect of Sunnites.

SUNNINESS
Sun"ni*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sunny.

SUNNITE
Sun"nite, n.

Defn: One of the orthodox Mohammedans who receive the Sunna as of
equal importance with the Koran.

SUNNUD
Sun"nud, n. Etym: [Hind., fr. Ar. sanad.]

Defn: A charter or warrant; also, a deed of gift. [India]

SUNNY
Sun"ny, a. [Compar. Sunnier; superl. Sunniest.]

1. Of or pertaining to the sun; proceeding from, or resembling the
sun; hence, shining; bright; brilliant; radiant. "Sunny beams."
Spenser. "Sunny locks." Shak.

2. Exposed to the rays of the sun; brightened or warmed by the direct
rays of the sun; as, a sunny room; the sunny side of a hill.
Her blooming mountains and her sunny shores. Addison.

3. Cheerful; genial; as, a sunny disposition.
My decayed fair A sunny look of his would soon repair. Shak.

SUNNY
Sun"ny, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Sunfish (b).

SUNPROOF
Sun"proof`, a.

Defn: Impervious to the rays of the sun. "Darksome yew, sunproof."
Marston.

SUNRISE; SUNRISING
Sun"rise`, Sun"ris`ing, n.

1. The first appearance of the sun above the horizon in the morning;
more generally, the time of such appearance, whether in fair or
cloudy weather; as, to begin work at sunrise. "The tide of sunrise
swells." Keble.

2. Hence, the region where the sun rises; the east.
Which were beyond Jordan toward the sunrising. Deut. iv. 47 (Rev.
Ver.)
Full hot and fast the Saxon rides, with rein of travel slack, And,
bending o'ev his saddle, leaves the sunrise at his back. Whittier.

SUNSET; SUNSETTING
Sun"set", Sun"set`ting, n.

1. The descent of the sun below the horizon; also, the time when the
sun sets; evening. Also used figuratively.
'T is the sunset of life gives me mystical lore. Campbell.

2. Hence, the region where the sun sets; the west. Sunset shell
(Zool.), a West Indian marine bivalve (Tellina radiata) having a
smooth shell marked with radiating bands of varied colors resembling
those seen at sunset or before sunrise; -- called also rising sun.

SUNSHADE
Sun"shade`, n.

Defn: Anything used as a protection from the sun's rays.
Specifically:
(a) A small parasol.
(b) An awning.

SUNSHINE
Sun"shine`, n.

1. The light of the sun, or the place where it shines; the direct
rays of the sun, the place where they fall, or the warmth and light
which they give.
But all sunshine, as when his beams at noon Culminate from the
equator. Milton.

2. Anything which has a warming and cheering influence like that of
the rays of the sun; warmth; illumination; brightness.
That man that sits within a monarch's heart, And ripens in the
sunshine of his favor. Shak.

SUNSHINE
Sun"shine`, a.

Defn: Sunshiny; bright. Shak. "Sunshine hours." Keble.

SUNSHINY
Sun"shin`y, a.

1. Bright with the rays of the sun; clear, warm, or pleasant; as, a
sunshiny day.

2. Bright like the sun; resplendent.
Flashing beams of that sunshiny shield. Spenser.

3. Beaming with good spirits; cheerful. "Her sunshiny face." Spenser.

SUNSQUALL
Sun"squall`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any large jellyfish.

SUN STAR
Sun" star`. (Zool.)

Defn: See Sun star, under Sun.

SUNSTED
Sun"sted, n. Etym: [Sun + stead a place.]

Defn: Solstice. [Obs.] "The summer sunsted." Holland.

SUNSTONE
Sun"stone`, n. (Med.)

Defn: Aventurine feldspar. See under Aventurine.

SUNSTROKE
Sun"stroke`, n. (Med.)

Defn: Any affection produced by the action of the sun on some part of
the body; especially, a sudden prostration of the physical powers,
with symptoms resembling those of apoplexy, occasioned by exposure to
excessive heat, and often terminating fatally; coup de soleil.

SUN-STRUCK
Sun"-struck`, a. (Med.)

Defn: Overcome by, or affected with, sunstroke; as, sun-struck
soldiers.

SUNUP
Sun"up`, n.

Defn: Sunrise. [Local, U.S.]
Such a horse as that might get over a good deal of ground atwixt
sunup and sundown. Cooper.

SUNWARD
Sun"ward, adv.

Defn: Toward the sun.

SUNWISE
Sun"wise`, adv.

Defn: In the direction of the sun's apparent motion, or from the east
southward and westward, and so around the circle; also, in the same
direction as the movement of the hands of a watch lying face upward.

SUP
Sup, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supped; p. pr. & vb. n. Supping.] Etym: [OE.
soupen to drink, AS. s; akin to D. zuipen, G. saufen, OHG. s, Icel.
s, Sw. supa, Dan. sobe. Cf. Sip, Sop, Soup, Supper.]

Defn: To take into the mouth with the lips, as a liquid; to take or
drink by a little at a time; to sip.
There I'll sup Balm and nectar in my cup. Crashaw.

SUP
Sup, n.

Defn: A small mouthful, as of liquor or broth; a little taken with
the lips; a sip.
Tom Thumb had got a little sup. Drayton.

SUP
Sup, v. i. Etym: [See Supper.]

Defn: To eat the evening meal; to take supper.
I do entreat that we may sup together.

SUP
Sup, v. t.

Defn: To treat with supper. [Obs.]
Sup them well and look unto them all. Shak.

SUPAWN
Su*pawn", n. Etym: [Of American Indian origin.]

Defn: Boiled Indian meal; hasty pudding; mush. [Written also sepawn,
sepon, and suppawn.] [Local, U.S.]

SUPE
Supe, n.

Defn: A super. [Theatrical Cant]

SUPER-
Su"per-. Etym: [L. super over, above; akin to Gr. sub under, and E.
over. See Over, and cf. Hyper-, Sub-, Supra-, Sur-.]

1. A prefix signifying above, over, beyond, and hence often denoting
in a superior position, in excess, over and above, in addition,
exceedingly; as in superimpose, supersede, supernatural,
superabundance.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: A prefix formerly much used to denote that the ingredient to
the name of which it was prefixed was present in a large, or
unusually large, proportion as compared with the other ingredients;
as in calcium superphosphate. It has been superseded by per-, bi-,
di-, acid, etc. (as peroxide, bicarbonate, disulphide, and acid
sulphate), which retain the old meanings of super-, but with sharper
definition. Cf. Acid, a., Bi-, Di-, and Per-.

SUPER
Su"per, n.

Defn: A contraction of Supernumerary, in sense 2. [Theatrical Cant]

SUPERABLE
Su"per*a*ble, a. Etym: [L. superabilis, from superare to go over, to
surmount, fr. super above, over.]

Defn: Capable of being overcome or conquered; surmountable.
Antipathies are generally superable by a single effort. Johnson.
-- Su"per*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Su"per*a*bly, adv.

SUPERABOUND
Su`per*a*bound", v. i. Etym: [L. superabundare: cf. OF. superabonder.
See Super-, and Abound.]

Defn: To be very abundant or exuberant; to be more than sufficient;
as, the country superabounds with corn.

SUPERABUNDANCE
Su`per*a*bun"dance, n. Etym: [L. superabundantia: cf. OF.
superabondance.]

Defn: The quality or state of being superabundant; a superabundant
quantity; redundancy; excess.

SUPERABUNDANT
Su`per*a*bun"dant, a. Etym: [L. superabundans, p.pr. of
superabundare. See Superabound.]

Defn: Abounding to excess; being more than is sufficient; redundant;
as, superabundant zeal.
 -- Su`per*a*bun"dant*ly, adv.

SUPERACIDULATED
Su`per*a*cid"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: Acidulated to excess. [R.]

SUPERADD
Su`per*add", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superadded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superadding.] Etym: [L. superaddere. See Super-, and Add.]

Defn: To add over and above; to add to what has been added; to annex,
as something extrinsic.
The strength of any living creature, in those external motion, is
something distinct from, and superadded unto, its natural gravity.
Bp. Wilkins.
The peacock laid it extremely to heart that he had not the
nightingale's voice superadded to the beauty of his plumes.
L'Estrange.

SUPERADDITION
Su`per*ad*di"tion, n.

Defn: The act of adding something in excess or something extraneous;
also, something which is added in excess or extraneously.
This superaddition is nothing but fat. Arbuthnot.

SUPERADVENIENT
Su`per*ad*ven"ient, a.

Defn: Coming upon; coming in addition to, or in assistance of,
something. [R.]
He has done bravely by the superadvenient assistance of his God. Dr.
H. More.

SUPERALIMENTATION
Su`per*al`i*men*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of overfeeding, or making one take food in excess of
the natural appetite for it.

SUPERALTAR
Su"per*al`tar, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A raised shelf or stand on the back of an altar, on which
different objects can be placed; a predella or gradino.

SUPERANGELIC
Su`per*an*gel"ic, a.

Defn: Superior to the angels in nature or rank. [R.] Milman.

SUPERANNUATE
Su`per*an"nu*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superannuated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superannuating.] Etym: [Pref. super- + L. annus a year.]

1. To impair or disquality on account of age or infirmity. Sir T.
Browne.

2. To give a pension to, on account of old age or other infirmity; to
cause to retire from service on a pension.

SUPERANNUATE
Su`per*an"nu*ate, v. i.

Defn: To last beyond the year; -- said of annual plants. [Obs.]
Bacon.

SUPERANNUATION
Su`per*an`nu*a"tion, n.

Defn: The state of being superannuated, or too old for office or
business; the state of being disqualified by old age; decrepitude.
The world itself is in a state of superannuation. Cowper.
Slyness blinking through the watery eye of superannuation. Coleridge.

SUPERB
Su*perb", a. Etym: [F. superbe, L. superbus, fr. super over. See
Super-.]

1. Grand; magnificent; august; stately; as, a superb edifice; a
superb colonnade.

2. Rich; elegant; as, superb furniture or decorations.

3. Showy; excellent; grand; as, a superb exhibition. Superb paradise
bird (Zool.), a bird of paradise (Paradis?a, or Lophorina, superba)
having the scapulars erectile, and forming a large ornamental tuft on
each shoulder, and a large gorget of brilliant feathers on the
breast. The color is deep violet, or nearly black, with brilliant
green reflections. The gorget is bright metallic green.
 -- Superb warber. (Zool.) See Blue wren, under Wren.
 -- Su*perb"ly, adv.
 -- Su*perb"ness, n.

SUPERBIATE
Su*per"bi*ate, v. t. Etym: [Cf. L. superbiare.]

Defn: To make (a person) haughty. [Obs. & R.] Feltham.

SUPERCARBONATE
Su`per*car"bon*ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A bicarbonate. [Obsoles.]

SUPERCARBURETED
Su`per*car"bu*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Bicarbureted. [Written also supercarburetted.] [Obsoles.]

SUPERCARGO
Su`per*car"go, n. Etym: [Super- + cargo: cf. Sp. sobrecargo. Cf.
Surcharge.]

Defn: An officer or person in a merchant ship, whose duty is to
manage the sales, and superintend the commercial concerns, of the
voyage.

SUPERCARPAL
Su`per*car"pal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above, or in the upper part of, the carpus.

SUPERCELESTIAL
Su`per*ce*les"tial, a. Etym: [Pref. super- + celestial: cf. L.
supercaelestis.]

1. Situated above the firmament, or great vault of heaven. Waterland.

2. Higher than celestial; superangelic.

SUPERCHARGE
Su`per*charge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supercharged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Supercharging.] Etym: [Pref. super- + charge. Cf. Surcharge.] (Her.)

Defn: To charge (a bearing) upon another bearing; as, to supercharge
a rose upon a fess.

SUPERCHARGE
Su`per*charge", n. (Her.)

Defn: A bearing charged upon another bearing. [R.]

SUPERCHEMICAL
Su`per*chem"ic*al, a.

Defn: Above or beyond chemistry; inexplicable by chemical laws. J. Le
Conte.

SUPERCHERY
Su*perch"er*y, n. Etym: [F. supercherie.]

Defn: Deceit; fraud; imposition. [Obs. & R.]

SUPERCILIARY
Su`per*cil"i*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. supercilium an eyebrow. See
Supercilious.]

1. Of or pertaining to the eyebrows; supraorbital.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a distinct streak of color above the eyes; as, the
superciliary woodpecker.

SUPERCILIOUS
Su`per*cil"i*ous, a. Etym: [L. superciliosus, fr. supercilium an
eyebrow, pride; super over, + cilium an eyelid; probably akin to
celare to conceal. Cf. Conceal.]

Defn: Lofty with pride; haughty; dictatorial; overbearing; arrogant;
as, a supercilious officer; asupercilious air; supercilious behavior.
 -- Su`per*cil"i*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Su`per*cil"i*ous*ness, n.

SUPERCILIUM
Su`per*cil"i*um, n. Etym: [L.] (Zool.)

Defn: The eyebrow, or the region of the eyebrows.

SUPERCOLUMNIATION
Su`per*co*lum`ni*a"tion, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The putting of one order above another; also, an architectural
work produced by this method; as, the putting of the Doric order in
the ground story, Ionic above it, and Corinthian or Composite above
this.

SUPERCONCEPTION
Su`per*con*cep"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: Superfetation. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

SUPERCONSEQUENCE
Su`per*con"se*quence, n.

Defn: Remote consequence. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SUPERCRESCENCE
Su`per*cres"cence, n. Etym: [See Supercrescent.]

Defn: That which grows upon another growing thing; a parasite. [R.]
Sir T. Browne.

SUPERCRESCENT
Su`per*cres"cent, a. Etym: [L. supercrescens, p.pr. of supercrescere;
super above + crescere to grow.]

Defn: Growing on some other growing thing. [R.] Johnson.

SUPERCRETACEOUS
Su`per*cre*ta"ceous, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Same as Supracretaceous.

SUPERCURIOUS
Su`per*cu"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Excessively curious or inquisitive. Evelyn.

SUPERDOMINANT
Su`per*dom"i*nant, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The sixth tone of the scale; that next above the dominant; --
called also submediant.

SUPERDREADNOUGHT
Su`per*dread"nought`, n.

Defn: See Dreadnought, above.

SUPEREMINENCE; SUPEREMINENCY
Su`per*em"i*nence, Su`per*em"i*nen*cy, n. Etym: [L. supereminentia.]

Defn: The quality or state of being supereminent; distinguished
eminence; as, the supereminence of Cicero as an orator, or Lord
Chatham as a statesman. Ayliffe.
He was not forever beset with the consciousness of his own
supereminence. Prof. Wilson.

SUPEREMINENT
Su`per*em"i*nent, a. Etym: [L. supereminens, p.pr. of supereminere.
See Super-, and Eminent.]

Defn: Eminent in a superior degree; surpassing others in excellence;
as, a supereminent divine; the supereminent glory of Christ.
 -- Su`per*em"i*nent*ly, adv.

SUPEREROGANT
Su`per*er"o*gant, a. Etym: [L. supererogans, p.pr. See Supererogate.]

Defn: Supererogatory. [Obs.]

SUPEREROGATE
Su`per*er"o*gate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Supererogated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Supererogating.] Etym: [L. supererogatus, p.p. of supererogare to
spend or pay out over and above; super over, above + erogare to
expend or pay out money from the public treasury after asking the
consent of the people. See Super-, and Erogate, Rogation.]

Defn: To do more than duty requires; to perform works of
supererogation; to atone (for a dificiency in another) by means of a
surplus action or quality.
The fervency of one man in prayer can not supererogate for the
coldness of another. Milton.

SUPEREROGATION
Su`per*er`o*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. supererogatio a payment in
addition.]

Defn: The act of supererogating; performance of more than duty or
necessity requires. Works of supererogation (R. C. Ch.), those good
deeds believed to have been performed by saints, or capable of being
performed by men, over and above what is required for their own
salvation.

SUPEREROGATIVE
Su`per*e*rog"a*tive, a.

Defn: Supererogatory.

SUPEREROGATORY
Su`per*e*rog"a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Performed to an extent not enjoined, or not required, by duty
or necessity; as, supererogatory services. Howell.

SUPERESSENTIAL
Su`per*es*sen"tial, a.

Defn: Essential above others, or above the constitution of a thing.
J. Ellis.

SUPERETHICAL
Su`per*eth"ic*al, a.

Defn: More than ethical; above ethics. Bolingbroke.

SUPEREXALT
Su`per*ex*alt", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superexalted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superexalting.]

Defn: To exalt to a superior degree; to exalt above others. Barrow.

SUPEREXALTATION
Su`per*ex`al*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Elevation above the common degree. Holyday.

SUPEREXCELLENCE
Su`per*ex"cel*lence, n.

Defn: Superior excellence; extraordinary excellence.

SUPEREXCELLENT
Su`per*ex"cel*lent, a. Etym: [Pref. super- + excellent: cf. L.
superexcellens.]

Defn: Excellent in an uncommon degree; very excellent. Drayton.

SUPEREXCINATION
Su`per*ex`ci*na"tion, n.

Defn: Excessive, or more than normal, excitation.

SUPEREXCRESCENCE
Su`per*ex*cres"cence, n.

Defn: Something growing superfluously.

SUPERFAMILY
Su"per*fam`i*ly, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A group intermediate between a family and a suborder.

SUPERFECUNDATION
Su`per*fec`un*da"tion, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: Fertilization of two ova, at the same menstruation, by two
different acts of coition.

SUPERFECUNDITY
Su`per*fe*cun"di*ty, n.

Defn: Superabundant fecundity or multiplication of the species.

SUPERFETATE
Su`per*fe"tate, v. i. Etym: [L. superfetare; super above, over +
fetare to bring forth.]

Defn: To conceive after a prior conception, but before the birth of
the offspring.
The female . . . is said to superfetate. Grew.

SUPERFETATION
Su`per*fe*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. superfetation.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The formation of a fetus at the result of an impregnation
occurring after another impregnation but before the birth of the
offspring produced by it. This is possible only when there is a
double uterus, or where menstruation persists up to the time of the
second impregnation.
In then became a superfetation upon, and not an ingredient in, the
national character. Coleridge.

SUPERFETE
Su`per*fete", v. i.

Defn: To superfetate. [Obs.]

SUPERFETE
Su`per*fete", v. t.

Defn: To conceive (another fetus) after a former conception. [Obs.]
Howell.

SUPERFICE
Su"per*fice, n.

Defn: A superficies. [Obs.] Dryden.

SUPERFICIAL
Su`per*fi"cial, a. Etym: [L. superficialis: cf. F. superficiel. See
Superficies.]

1. Of or pertaining to the superficies, or surface; lying on the
surface; shallow; not deep; as, a superficial color; a superficial
covering; superficial measure or contents; superficial tillage.

2. Reaching or comprehending only what is obvious or apparent; not
deep or profound; shallow; -- said especially in respect to study,
learning, and the like; as, a superficial scholar; superficial
knowledge.
This superficial tale Is but a preface of her worthy praise. Shak.
He is a presumptuous and superficial writer. Burke.
That superficial judgment, which happens to be right without
deserving to be so. J. H. Newman.
-- Su`per*fi"cial*ly, adv.
 -- Su`per*fi"cial*ness, n.

SUPERFICIALIST
Su`per*fi"cial*ist, n.

Defn: One who attends to anything superficially; a superficial or
shallow person; a sciolist; a smatterer.

SUPERFICIALITY
Su`per*fi`ci*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. superficialite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being superficial; also, that which is
superficial. Sir T. Browne.

SUPERFICIALIZE
Su`per*fi"cial*ize, v. t.

Defn: To attend to, or to treat, superficially, or in a shallow or
slighting way. [R.]
It is a characteristic weakness of the day to superficialize evil. E.
P. Whipple.

SUPERFICIARY
Su`per*fi"ci*a*ry, n. (Rom. Law)

Defn: One to whom a right of surface occupation is granted; one who
pays quitrent for a house built upon another man's ground.

SUPERFICIARY
Su`per*fi"ci*a*ry, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the superficies, or surface; superficial.

2. (Rom. Law)

Defn: Situated or built on another man's land, as a house.

SUPERFICIES
Su`per*fi"cies, n. Etym: [L., fr. super above, over + facies make,
figure, shape. See Surface.]

1. The surface; the exterior part, superficial area, or face of a
thing.

2. (Civil Law)
(a) Everything on the surface of a piece of ground, or of a building,
so closely connected by art or nature as to constitute a part of it,
as houses, or other superstructures, fences, trees, vines, etc.
(b) A real right consisting of a grant by a landed proprietor of a
piece of ground, bearing a strong resemblance to the long building
leases granted by landholders in England, in consideration of a rent,
and under reservation of the ownership of the soil. Bouvier. Wharton.

SUPERFINE
Su"per*fine, a.

1. Very fine, or most fine; being of surpassing fineness; of extra
nice or fine quality; as, superfine cloth.

2. Excessively fine; too nice; over particular; as, superfine
distinctions; superfine tastes.

SUPERFINENESS
Su"per*fine`ness, n.

Defn: The state of being superfine.

SUPERFINICAL
Su`per*fin"i*cal, a.

Defn: Extremely finical.

SUPERFLUENCE
Su*per"flu*ence, n. Etym: [L. superfluens, p.pr. of superfluere to
flow or run over. See Superfluous.]

Defn: Superfluity. [Obs.] Hammond.

SUPERFLUITANT
Su`per*flu"i*tant, a. Etym: [L. super above + fluitans, p.pr. of
fluitare intensive fr. fluere to flow.]

Defn: Floating above or on the surface. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
 -- Su`per*flu"i*tance, n. [Obs.]

SUPERFLUITY
Su`per*flu"i*ty, n.; pl. Superfluities. Etym: [L. superfluite, L.
superfluitas. See Superfluous.]

1. A greater quantity than is wanted; superabundance; as, a
superfluity of water; a superfluity of wealth.
A quiet mediocrity is still to be preferred before a troubled
superfluity. Suckling.

2. The state or quality of being superfluous; excess. "By a
superfluity abominable." Chaucer.

3. Something beyond what is needed; something which serves for show
or luxury.

Syn.
 -- Superabundance; excess; redundancy.

SUPERFLUOUS
Su*per"flu*ous, a. Etym: [L. superfluus overflowing; super over,
above + fluere to flow. See Super-, and Fluent.]

Defn: More than is wanted or is sufficient; rendered unnecessary by
superabundance; unnecessary; useless; excessive; as, a superfluous
price. Shak.
An authority which makes all further argument or illustration
superfluous. E. Everett.
Superfluous interval (Mus.), an interval that exceeds a major or
perfect interval by a semitone.

Syn.
 -- Unnecessary; useless; exuberant; excessive; redundant; needless.
 -- Su*per"flu*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Su*per"flu*ous*ness, n.

SUPERFLUX
Su"per*flux, n.

Defn: Superabundance; superfluity; an overflowing. [R.] Shak.

SUPERFOETATION
Su`per*foe*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Superfetation.

SUPERFOLIATION
Su`per*fo`li*a"tion, n.

Defn: Excess of foliation. Sir T. Browne.

SUPERFRONTAL
Su`per*fron"tal, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: A cloth which is placed over the top of an altar, and often
hangs down a few inches over the frontal.

SUPERFUSE
Su`per*fuse", a.

Defn: To pour (something) over or on something else. [Obs.] Evelyn.

SUPERHEAT
Su`per*heat", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superheated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superheating.]

1. To heat too much, to overheat; as, to superheat an oven.

2. (Steam Engine)

Defn: To heat, as steam, apart from contact with water, until it
resembles a perfect gas.

SUPERHEAT
Su"per*heat`, n.

Defn: The increase of temperature communicated to steam by
superheating it.

SUPERHEATER
Su"per*heat`er, n. (Steam Engine)

Defn: An apparatus for superheating steam.

SUPERHIVE
Su"per*hive`, n.

Defn: A removable upper part of a hive. The word is sometimes
contracted to super.

SUPERHUMAN
Su`per*hu"man, a.

Defn: Above or beyond what is human; sometimes, divine; as,
superhuman strength; superhuman wisdom.

SUPERIMPOSE
Su`per*im*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superimposed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superimposing.]

Defn: To lay or impose on something else; as, a stratum of earth
superimposed on another stratum.
 -- Su`per*im`po*si"tion, n.

SUPERIMPREGNATION
Su`per*im`preg*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of impregnating, or the state of being impregnated, in
addition to a prior impregnation; superfetation.

SUPERINCUMBENCE; SUPERINCUMBENCY
Su`per*in*cum"bence, Su`per*in*cum"ben*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being superincumbent.

SUPERINCUMBENT
Su`per*in*cum"bent, a. Etym: [L. superincumbens, p.pr. of
superincumbere. See Super-, and Incumbent.]

Defn: Lying or resting on something else.

SUPERINDUCE
Su`per*in*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superinduced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superinducing.] Etym: [Pref. super- + induce: cf. L. superinducere to
draw over.]

Defn: To bring in, or upon, as an addition to something.
Long custom of sinning superinduces upon the soul new and absurd
desires. South.

SUPERINDUCEMENT
Su`per*in*duce"ment, n.

Defn: Superinduction.

SUPERINDUCTION
Su`per*in*duc"tion, n.

Defn: The act of superinducing, or the state of being superinduced.
South.

SUPERINFUSE
Su`per*in*fuse", v. t. Etym: [Pref. super- + infuse: cf. L.
superinfundere, superinfusum, to pour over.]

Defn: To infuse over. [R.]

SUPERINJECTION
Su`per*in*jec"tion, n.

Defn: An injection succeeding another.

SUPERINSPECT
Su`per*in*spect", v. t. Etym: [Pref. super- + inspect: cf. L.
superinspicere, superinspectum.]

Defn: To over see; to superintend by inspection. [R.] Maydman.

SUPERINSTITUTION
Su`per*in`sti*tu"tion, n.

Defn: One institution upon another, as when A is instituted and
admitted to a benefice upon a title, and B instituted and admitted
upon the presentation of another. Bailey.

SUPERINTELLECTUAL
Su`per*in`tel*lec"tu*al, a.

Defn: Being above intellect.

SUPERINTEND
Su`per*in*tend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superintended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superintending.] Etym: [L. superintendere. See Super-, and Intend.]

Defn: To have or exercise the charge and oversight of; to oversee
with the power of direction; to take care of with authority; to
supervise; as, an officer superintends the building of a ship or the
construction of a fort.
The king may appoint a council, who may superintend the works of this
nature. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Superintend, Supervise. These words in general use are the
synonymous. As sometimes used, supervise implies the more general,
and superintend, the more particular and constant, inspection or
direction. Among architects there is a disposition to use the word
supervise in the sense of a general oversight of the main points of
construction with reference to the design, etc., and to employ the
word superintend to signify a constant, careful attention to all the
details of construction. But this technical distinction is not firmly
established.

SUPERINTENDENCE
Su`per*in*tend"ence, n. Etym: [Cf. F. superintendance.]

Defn: The act of superintending; care and oversight for the purpose
of direction; supervision. Barrow.

Syn.
 -- Inspection; oversight; care; direction; control; guidance.

SUPERINTENDENCY
Su`per*in*tend"en*cy, n.; pl. -cies (.

Defn: The act of superintending; superintendence. Boyle.

SUPERINTENDENT
Su`per*in*tend"ent, a. Etym: [L. superintendens, p.pr. See
Superintend.]

Defn: Overseeing; superintending.

SUPERINTENDENT
Su`per*in*tend"ent, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. superintendant, F.
surintendant. Cf. Surintendant.]

Defn: One who has the oversight and charge of some place,
institution, or organization, affairs, etc., with the power of
direction; as, the superintendent of an almshouse; the superintendent
of public works.

Syn.
 -- Inspector; overseer; manager; director; curator; supervisor.

SUPERINTENDER
Su`per*in*tend"er, n.

Defn: A superintendent. [R.]

SUPERINVESTITURE
Su`per*in*vest"i*ture, n.

Defn: An outer vestment or garment. [R.] Bp. Horne.

SUPERIOR
Su*pe"ri*or, a. Etym: [L., compar. of superus being above, fr. super
above, over: cf. F. superieur. See Super-, and cf. Supreme.]

1. More elevated in place or position; higher; upper; as, the
superior limb of the sun; the superior part of an image.

2. Higher in rank or office; more exalted in dignity; as, a superior
officer; a superior degree of nobility.

3. Higher or greater in excellence; surpassing others in the
greatness, or value of any quality; greater in quality or degree; as,
a man of superior merit; or of superior bravery.

4. Beyond the power or influence of; too great or firm to be subdued
or affected by; -- with to.
There is not in earth a spectacle more worthy than a great man
superior to his sufferings. Spectator.

5. More comprehensive; as a term in classification; as, a genus is
superior to a species.

6. (Bot.)
(a) Above the ovary; -- said of parts of the flower which, although
normally below the ovary, adhere to it, and so appear to originate
from its upper part; also of an ovary when the other floral organs
are plainly below it in position, and free from it.
(b) Belonging to the part of an axillary flower which is toward the
main stem; posterior.
(c) Pointing toward the apex of the fruit; ascending; -- said of the
radicle. Superior conjunction, Superior planets, etc. See
Conjunction, Planet, etc.
 -- Superior figure, Superior letter (Print.), a figure or letter
printed above the line, as a reference to a note or an index of a
power, etc; as, in x2 + yn, 2 is a superior figure, n a superior
letter. Cf. Inferior figure, under Inferior.

SUPERIOR
Su*pe"ri*or, n.

1. One who is above, or surpasses, another in rank, station, office,
age, ability, or merit; one who surpasses in what is desirable; as
Addison has no superior as a writer of pure English.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: The head of a monastery, convent, abbey, or the like.

SUPERIORESS
Su*pe"ri*or*ess, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: A woman who acts as chief in a convent, abbey, or nunnery; a
lady superior.

SUPERIORITY
Su*pe`ri*or"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. superiorite, LL. superioritas.]

Defn: The quality, state, or condition of being superior; as,
superiority of rank; superiority in merit.

Syn.
 -- Preeminence; excellence; predominancy; prevalence; ascendency;
odds; advantage.

SUPERIORLY
Su*pe"ri*or*ly, adv.

Defn: In a superior position or manner.

SUPERJACENT
Su`per*ja"cent, a. Etym: [L. superjacens, p.pr. of superjacere; super
above + jacere to lie.]

Defn: Situated immediately above; as, superjacent rocks.

SUPERLATION
Su`per*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. superlatio. See Superlative.]

Defn: Exaltation of anything beyond truth or propriety. [Obs.] B.
Jonson.

SUPERLATIVE
Su`per*la"tive, a. Etym: [L. superlativus, fr. superlatus excessive,
used as p.p. of superiorferre, but from a different root: cf. F.
superlatif. See Elate, Tolerate.]

1. Lifted up to the highest degree; most eminent; surpassing all
other; supreme; as, superlative wisdom or prudence; a woman of
superlative beauty; the superlative glory of the divine character.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: Expressing the highest or lowest degree of the quality, manner,
etc., denoted by an adjective or an adverb. The superlative degree is
formed from the positive by the use of -est, most, or least; as,
highest, most pleasant, least bright.
 -- Su`per*la"tive*ly, adv.
 -- Su`per*la"tive*ness, n.

SUPERLATIVE
Su`per*la"tive, n.

1. That which is highest or most eminent; the utmost degree.

2. (Gram.)
(a) The superlative degree of adjectives and adverbs; also, a form or
word by which the superlative degree is expressed; as, strongest,
wisest, most stormy, least windy, are all superlatives. Absolute
superlative, a superlative in an absolute rather than in a
comparative or exclusive sense. See Elative.

SUPERLUCRATION
Su`per*lu*cra"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. super- + L. lucratio gain.]

Defn: Excessive or extraordinary gain. [Obs.] Davenant.

SUPERLUNAR; SUPERLUNARY
Su`per*lu"nar, Su`per*lu"na*ry, a.

Defn: Being above the moon; not belonging to this world; -- opposed
to sublunary.
The head that turns at superlunar things. Pope.

SUPERMAN
Su"per*man`, n.

Defn: = Overman, above.

SUPERMATERIAL
Su`per*ma*te"ri*al, a.

Defn: Being above, or superior to, matter.

SUPERMAXILLA
Su`per*max*il"la, n. Etym: [NL. See Super-, and Maxilla.] (Anat.)

Defn: The supermaxilla.

SUPERMAXILLARY
Su`per*max"il*la*ry, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Supermaxillary.

SUPERMEDIAL
Su`per*me"di*al, a.

Defn: Above the middle.

SUPERMUNDANE
Su`per*mun"dane, a.

Defn: Being above the world; -- opposed to inframundane. Cudworth.

SUPERMUNDIAL
Su`per*mun"di*al, a.

Defn: Supermundane. [Obs.]

SUPERNACULAR
Su`per*nac"u*lar, a.

Defn: Like supernaculum; first-rate; as, a supernacular wine. [R.]
Thackeray.

SUPERNACULUM
Su`per*nac"u*lum, adv. & n. Etym: [NL., from L. super over + G.
nagel, a nail, as of the finger, or a corruption of L. super and
ungulam claw.]

1. A kind of mock Latin term intended to mean, upon the nail; -- used
formerly by topers. Nares.
Drinking super nagulum [supernaculum], a device of drinking, new come
out of France, which is, after a man hath turned up the bottom of the
cup, to drop it on his nail and make a pearl with that is left; which
if it slide, and he can not make it stand on by reason there is too
much, he must drink again for his penance. Nash.

2. Good liquor, of which not enough is left to wet one's nail. Grose.

SUPERNAL
Su*per"nal, a. Etym: [L. supernus, from super above: cf. F. supernel.
See Super-.]

1. Being in a higher place or region; locally higher; as, the
supernal orbs; supernal regions. "That supernal judge." Shak.

2. Relating or belonging to things above; celestial; heavenly; as,
supernal grace.
Not by the sufferance of supernal power. Milton.

SUPERNATANT
Su`per*na"tant, a. Etym: [L. supernatanus, p.pr. of supernatare to
swim above; super above + natare to swim.]

Defn: Swimming above; floating on the surface; as, oil supernatant on
water. SUPERNATANT
Su`per*na"tant, n. (Chem.)

Defn: The liquid remaining after solids suspended in a liquid have
been sedimented by gravity or by centrifugation. Contrasted with the
solid sediment, or (in centrifugation) the pellet.

SUPERNATATION
Su`per*na*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of floating on the surface of a fluid. Sir T. Browne.

SUPERNATURAL
Su`per*nat"u*ral, a. Etym: [Pref. super- + natural: cf. OF.
supernaturel, F. surnaturel.]

Defn: Being beyond, or exceeding, the power or laws of nature;
miraculous.

Syn.
 -- Preternatural.
 -- Supernatural, Preternatural. Preternatural signifies beside
nature, and supernatural, above or beyond nature. What is very
greatly aside from the ordinary course of things is preternatural;
what is above or beyond the established laws of the universe is
supernatural. The dark day which terrified all Europe nearly a
century ago was preternatural; the resurrection of the dead is
supernatural. "That form which the earth is under at present is
preternatural, like a statue made and broken again." T. Burnet.
"Cures wrought by medicines are natural operations; but the
miraculous ones wrought by Christ and his apostles were
supernatural." Boyle.
That is supernatural, whether it be, that is either not in the chain
of natural cause and effect, or which acts on the chain of cause and
effect in nature, from without the chain. Bushnell.
We must not view creation as supernatural, but we do look upon it as
miraculous. McCosh.
The supernatural, whatever is above and beyond the scope, or the
established course, of the laws of nature. "Nature and the
supernatural." H. Bushnell.

SUPERNATURALISM
Su`per*nat"u*ral*ism, n.

1. The quality or state of being supernatural; supernaturalness.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine of a divine and supernatural agency in the
production of the miracles and revelations recorded in the Bible, and
in the grace which renews and sanctifies men, -- in opposition to the
doctrine which denies the agency of any other than physical or
natural causes in the case. [Written also supranaturalism.]

SUPERNATURALIST
Su`per*nat"u*ral*ist, n.

Defn: One who holds to the principles of supernaturalism.

SUPERNATURALISTIC
Su`per*nat`u*ral*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to supernaturalism.

SUPERNATURALITY
Su`per*nat`u*ral"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being supernatural.

SUPERNATURALIZE
Su`per*nat"u*ral*ize, v. t.

Defn: To treat or regard as supernatural.

SUPERNATURALLY
Su`per*nat"u*ral*ly, adv.

Defn: In a supernatural manner.

SUPERNATURALNESS
Su`per*nat"u*ral*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being supernatural.

SUPERNUMERARY
Su`per*nu"mer*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. supernumerarius: cf. OF.
supernumeraire, F. surnumeraire. See Super-, and Numerary, Number.]

1. Exceeding the number stated or prescribed; as, a supernumerary
officer in a regiment.

2. Exceeding a necessary, usual, or required number or quality;
superfluous; as, supernumerary addresses; supernumerary expense.
Addison.

SUPERNUMERARY
Su`per*nu"mer*a*ry, n.; pl. Supernumeraries (.

1. A person or thing beyond the number stated.

2. A person or thing beyond what is necessary or usual; especially, a
person employed not for regular service, but only to fill the place
of another in case of need; specifically, in theaters, a person who
is not a regular actor, but is employed to appear in a stage
spectacle.

SUPEROCCIPITAL
Su`per*oc*cip"i*tal, a.

Defn: Supraoccipital.

SUPERORDER
Su`per*or"der, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A group intermediate in importance between an order and a
subclass.

SUPERORDINATION
Su`per*or`di*na"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. super- + ordination: cf. L.
superordinatio.]

Defn: The ordination of a person to fill a station already occupied;
especially, the ordination by an ecclesiastical official, during his
lifetime, of his successor. Fuller.

SUPEROXIDE
Su`per*ox"ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See Peroxide. [Obs.]

SUPERPARTICULAR
Su`per*par*tic"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. superparticularis. See Super-, and
Particular.] (Math.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a ratio when the excess of the greater term
over the less is a unit, as the ratio of 1 to 2, or of 3 to 4. [Obs.]
Hutton.

SUPERPARTIENT
Su`per*par"tient, a. Etym: [L. superpartiens; super over + partiens,
p.pr. of partire to divide.] (Math.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a ratio when the excess of the greater term
over the less is more than a unit, as that of 3 to 5, or 7 to 10.
[Obs.] Hutton.

SUPERPHOSPHATE
Su`per*phos"phate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An acid phosphate. Superphosphate of lime (Com. Chem.), a
fertilizer obtained by trating bone dust, bone black, or phosphorite
with sulphuric acid, whereby the insoluble neutral calcium phosphate,
Ca3(PO4)2, is changed to the primary or acid calcium phosphate
Ca(H2PO4)2, which is soluble and therefore available for the soil.

SUPERPHYSICAL
Su`per*phys"ic*al, a.

Defn: Above or beyond physics; not explainable by physical laws.
Something superphysical and superchemical. J. Le Conte.

SUPERPLANT
Su"per*plant`, n.

Defn: A plant growing on another, as the mistletoe; an epiphyte.
[Obs.] Bacon.

SUPERPLEASE
Su`per*please", v. t.

Defn: To please exceedingly. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SUPERPLUS
Su"per*plus, n. Etym: [Pref. super- + L. plus more. See Surplus.]

Defn: Surplus. [Obs.] Goldsmith.

SUPERPLUSAGE
Su"per*plus`age, n.

Defn: Surplusage. [Obs.] "There yet remained a superplusage." Bp.
Fell.

SUPERPOLITIC
Su`per*pol"i*tic, a.

Defn: More than politic; above or exceeding policy. Milton.

SUPERPONDERATE
Su`per*pon"der*ate, v. t.

Defn: To wiegh over and above. [Obs.]

SUPERPOSABLE
Su`per*pos"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being superposed, as one figure upon another.

SUPERPOSE
Su`per*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superposed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superposing.] Etym: [F. superposer. See Super-, and Pose.]

1. To lay upon, as one kind of rock on another.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: To lay (a figure) upon another in such a manner that all the
parts of the one coincide with the parts of the other; as, to
superpose one plane figure on another.

SUPERPOSITION
Su`per*po*si"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. superposition. See Super-, and
Position.]

Defn: The act of superposing, or the state of being superposed; as,
the superposition of rocks; the superposition of one plane figure on
another, in geometry.

SUPERPRAISE
Su`per*praise", v. t.

Defn: To praise to excess.
To vow, and swear, and superpraise my parts. Shak.

SUPERPROPORTION
Su`per*pro*por"tion, n.

Defn: Overplus or excess of proportion. Sir K. Digby.

SUPERPURGATION
Su`per*pur*ga"tion, n.

Defn: Excessive purgation. Wiseman.

SUPERREFLECTION
Su`per*re*flec"tion, n.

Defn: The reflection of a reflected image or sound. [R.] Bacon.

SUPERREGAL
Su`per*re"gal, a.

Defn: More than regal; worthy of one greater than a king. Waterland.

SUPERREWARD
Su`per*re*ward", v. t.

Defn: To reward to an excessive degree. Bacon.

SUPERROYAL
Su`per*roy"al, a.

Defn: Larger than royal; -- said of a particular size of printing and
writing paper. See the Note under Paper, n.

SUPERSACRAL
Su`per*sa"cral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated over, or on the dorsal side of, the sacrum.

SUPERSALIENCY
Su`per*sa"li*en*cy, n.

Defn: The act of leaping on anything. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SUPERSALIENT
Su`per*sa"li*ent, a. Etym: [Pref. super- + L. saliens p.pr. of salire
to leap.]

Defn: Leaping upon. [Obs.]

SUPERSALT
Su`per*salt", n. (Chem.)

Defn: An acid salt. See Acid salt (a), under Salt, n.

SUPERSATURATE
Su`per*sat"u*rate, v. t.

Defn: To add to beyond saturation; as, to supersaturate a solution.

SUPERSATURATION
Su`per*sat`u*ra"tion, n.

Defn: The operation of supersaturating, or the state of being
supersaturated.

SUPERSCRIBE
Su`per*scribe", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superscribed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superscribing.] Etym: [L. superscribere, superscriptum; super over +
scribere to write. See Super-, and Scribe.]

Defn: To write or engrave (a name, address, inscription, or the like)
on the top or surface; to write a name, address, or the like, on the
outside or cover of (anything); as, to superscribe a letter.

SUPERSCRIPT
Su"per*script, n.

Defn: Superscription. [Obs.] "I will overglance the superscript."
Shak.

SUPERSCRIPTION
Su`per*scrip"tion, n. Etym: [L. superscriptio. See Superscribe.]

1. The act of superscribing.

2. That which is written or engraved on the surface, outside, or
above something else; specifically, an address on a letter, envelope,
or the like. Holland.
The superscription of his accusation was written over, The King of
the Jews. Mark xv. 26.

3. (Pharm.)

Defn: That part of a prescription which contains the Latin word
recipe (Take) or the sign

SUPERSECULAR
Su`per*sec"u*lar, a.

Defn: Being above the world, or secular things. Bp. Hall.

SUPERSEDE
Su`per*sede", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Superseded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Superseding.] Etym: [L. supersedere, supersessum, to sit above, be
superior to, forbear, omit; super above + sedere to sit: cf. F.
superseder. See Sit, and cf. Surcease.]

1. To come, or be placed, in the room of; to replace.

2. To displace, or set aside, and put another in place of; as, to
supersede an officer.

3. To make void, inefficacious, or useless, by superior power, or by
coming in the place of; to set aside; to render unnecessary; to
suspend; to stay.
Nothing is supposed that can supersede the known laws of natural
motion. Bentley.

4. (Old Law)

Defn: To omit; to forbear.

SUPERSEDEAS
Su`per*se"de*as, n. Etym: [L., suspend, set aside, stay, 2d pers.
sing. present subjunctive of supersedere. See Supersede.] (Law)

Defn: A writ of command to suspend the powers of an officer in
certain cases, or to stay proceedings under another writ. Blackstone.

SUPERSEDURE
Su*per*se"dure, n.

Defn: The act of superseding, or setting aside; supersession; as, the
supersedure of trial by jury. A. Hamilton.

SUPERSEMINATE
Su`per*sem"i*nate, v. t.

Defn: To sow, as seed, over something previously sown. [Obs.]
That can not be done with joy, when it shall be indifferent to any
man to superseminate what he please. Jer. Taylor.

SUPERSEMINATION
Su`per*sem`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The sowing of seed over seed previously sown. [Obs.] Abp.
Bramhall.

SUPERSENSIBLE
Su`per*sen"si*ble, a. Etym: [Pref. super- + sensible: cf. F.
supersensible.]

Defn: Beyond the reach of the senses; above the natural powers of
perception.

SUPERSENSITIVE
Su`per*sen"si*tive, a.

Defn: Excessively sensitive; morbidly sensitive.
 -- Su`per*sen"si*tive*ness, n.

SUPERSENSUAL
Su`per*sen"su*al, a.

Defn: Supersensible.

SUPERSENSUOUS
Su`per*sen"su*ous, a.

1. Supersensible.

2. Excessively sensuous.

SUPERSERVICEABLE
Su`per*serv"ice*a*ble, a.

Defn: Overofficious; doing more than is required or desired. "A
superserviceable, finical rogue." Shak.

SUPERSESSION
Su`per*ses"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. supersession. See Supersede.]

Defn: The act of superseding, or the state of being superseded;
supersedure.
The general law of diminishing return from land would have undergone,
to that extent, a temporary supersession. J. S. Mill.

SUPERSOLAR
Su`per*so"lar, a.

Defn: Above the sun. Emerson.

SUPERSPHENOIDAL
Su`per*sphe*noid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the body of the
sphenoid bone.

SUPERSPINOUS
Su`per*spi"nous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Supraspinuos.

SUPERSTITION
Su`per*sti"tion, n. Etym: [F. superstition, L. superstitio,
originally, a standing still over or by a thing; hence, amazement,
wonder, dread, especially of the divine or supernatural, fr.
superstare to stand over; super over + stare to stand. See Super-,
and Stand.]

1. An excessive reverence for, or fear of, that which is unknown or
mysterious.

2. An ignorant or irrational worship of the Supreme Deity; excessive
exactness or rigor in religious opinions or practice; extreme and
unnecessary scruples in the observance of religious rites not
commanded, or of points of minor importance; also, a rite or practice
proceeding from excess of sculptures in religion.
And the truth With superstitions and traditions taint. Milton.

3. The worship of a false god or gods; false religion; religious
veneration for objects.
[The accusers] had certain questions against him of their own
superstition. Acts xxv. 19.

4. Belief in the direct agency of superior powers in certain
extraordinary or singular events, or in magic, omens, prognostics, or
the like.

5. Excessive nicety; scrupulous exactness.

Syn.
 -- Fanaticism.
 -- Superstition, Fanaticism. Superstition springs from religious
feeling misdirected or unenlightened. Fanaticism arises from this
same feeling in a state of high-wrought and self-confident
excitement. The former leads in some cases to excessive rigor in
religious opinions or practice; in others, to unfounded belief in
extraordinary events or in charms, omens, and prognostics, hence
producing weak fears, or excessive scrupulosity as to outward
observances. The latter gives rise to an utter disregard of reason
under the false assumption of enjoying a guidance directly inspired.
Fanaticism has a secondary sense as applied to politics, etc., which
corresponds to the primary.

SUPERSTITIONIST
Su`per*sti"tion*ist, n.

Defn: One addicted to superstition. [Obs.] "Blind superstitionists."
Dr. H. More.

SUPERSTITIOUS
Su`per*sti"tious, a. Etym: [F. superstitieux, L. superstitiosus.]

1. Of or pertaining to superstition; proceeding from, or manifesting,
superstition; as, superstitious rites; superstitious observances.

2. Evincing superstition; overscrupulous and rigid in religious
observances; addicted to superstition; full of idle fancies and
scruples in regard to religion.
Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too
superstitious. Acts xvii. 22.

3. Overexact; scrupulous beyond need. Superstitious use (Law), the
use of a gift or bequest, as of land, etc., for the maintenance of
the rites of a religion not tolerated by the law. [Eng.] Mozley & W.
 -- Su`per*sti"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Su`per*sti"tious*ness, n.

SUPERSTRAIN
Su`per*strain", v. t.

Defn: To overstrain. Bacon.

SUPERSTRATUM
Su`per*stra"tum, n.; pl. Superstrata (. Etym: [NL.: cf. L.
supersternere, superstratum, to spread upon. See Super-, and
Stratum.]

Defn: A stratum, or layer, above another.

SUPERSTRUCT
Su`per*struct", v. t. Etym: [L. superstructus, p.p. of superstruere
to build upon; super over + struere to build. See Super-, and
Structure.]

Defn: To build over or upon another structure; to erect upon a
foundation.
This is the only proper basis on which to superstruct first innocency
and then virtue. Dr. H. More.

SUPERSTRUCTION
Su`per*struc"tion, n.

1. The act of superstructing, or building upon.

2. That which id superstructed, or built upon some foundation; an
edifice; a superstructure.
My own profession hath taught me not to erect new superstructions
upon an old ruin. Denham.

SUPERSTRUCTIVE
Su`per*struct"ive, a.

Defn: Built or erected on something else. Hammond.

SUPERSTRUCTOR
Su`per*struct"or, n.

Defn: One who builds a superstructure. [R.] R. North.

SUPERSTRUCTURE
Su`per*struc"ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. superstructure.]

1. Any material structure or edifice built on something else; that
which is raised on a foundation or basis; esp. (Arch.),

Defn: all that part of a building above the basement. Also used
figuratively.
You have added to your natural endowments the superstructure of
study. Dryden.

2. (Railway Engin.)

Defn: The sleepers, and fastenings, in distinction from the roadbed.

SUPERSUBSTANTIAL
Su`per*sub*stan"tial, a. Etym: [Pref. super- + substantial: cf. F.
supersubstantiel.]

Defn: More than substantial; spiritual. "The heavenly
supersubstantial bread." Jer. Taylor.

SUPERSUBTLE
Su`per*sub"tle, a.

Defn: To subtle. Shak.

SUPERSULPHATE
Su`per*sul"phate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An acid sulphate. [Obs.]

SUPERSULPHURETED
Su`per*sul"phu*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Supersulphurized. [Obs.] [Written also -sulphuretted.]

SUPERSULPHURIZE
Su`per*sul"phur*ize, v. t. (Chem.)

Defn: To impregnate or combine with an excess of sulphur.

SUPERTAX
Su"per*tax`, n.  [Super- + tax.]

Defn: A tax in addition to the usual or normal tax; specif., in the
United Kingdom, an income tax of sixpence for every pound in addition
to the normal income tax of one shilling and twopence for every
pound, imposed, by the Finance Act of 1909-1910 (c. 8, ss 66, 72), on
the amount by which the  income of any person exceeds ?3,000 when his
total income exceeds ?5,000.

SUPERTEMPORAL
Su`per*tem"po*ral, n.

Defn: That which is more than temporal; that which is eternal. [R.]

SUPERTERRANEAN
Su`per*ter*ra"ne*an, a.

Defn: Being above ground. "Superterranean quarries." Mrs. Trollope.

SUPERTERRENE
Su`per*ter*rene", a. Etym: [Pref. super- + terrene: cf. L.
superterrenus.]

Defn: Being above ground, or above the earth. [R.]

SUPERTERRESTRIAL
Su`per*ter*res"tri*al, a.

Defn: Being above the earth, or above what belongs to the earth.
Buckminster.

SUPERTONIC
Su`per*ton"ic, n. (Mus.)

Defn: The note next above the keynote; the second of the scale.
Busby.

SUPERTRAGICAL
Su`per*trag"ic*al, a.

Defn: Tragical to excess.

SUPERTUBERATION
Su`per*tu`ber*a"tion, n. Etym: [Pref. super- + tuber.] (Bot.)

Defn: The production of young tubers, as potatoes, from the old while
still growing.

SUPERVACANEOUS
Su`per*va*ca"ne*ous, a. Etym: [L. supervacaneus, supervacuus; super
over + vacuus empty.]

Defn: Serving no purpose; superfluous; needless. [Obs.] Howell.

SUPERVENE
Su`per*vene", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Supervened; p. pr. & vb. n.
Supervening.] Etym: [L. supervenire, superventum, to come over, to
come upon; super over + venire to come. See Super-, and Come, and cf.
Overcome.]

Defn: To come as something additional or extraneous; to occur with
reference or relation to something else; to happen upon or after
something else; to be added; to take place; to happen.
Such a mutual gravitation can never supervene to matter unless
impressed by divine power. Bentley.
A tyrany immediately supervened. Burke.

SUPERVENIENT
Su`per*ven"ient, a. Etym: [L. superveniens, p.pr.]

Defn: Coming as something additional or extraneous; coming
afterwards.
That branch of belief was in him supervenient to Christian practice.
Hammond.
Divorces can be granted, a mensa et toro, only for supervenient
causes. Z. Swift.

SUPERVENTION
Su`per*ven"tion, n. Etym: [L. superventio.]

Defn: The act of supervening. Bp. Hall.

SUPERVISAL
Su`per*vis"al, n.

Defn: Supervision. Walpole.

SUPERVISE
Su`per*vise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supervised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Supervising.] Etym: [Pref. super- + L. visere to look at attentively,
to view, surely, intens. from videre, visum, to see. Cf. Survise, and
Survey.]

1. To oversee for direction; to superintend; to inspect with
authority; as, to supervise the construction of a steam engine, or
the printing of a book.

2. To look over so as to read; to peruse. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Superintend.

SUPERVISE
Su`per*vise", n.

Defn: Supervision; inspection. [Obs.]

SUPERVISION
Su`per*vi"sion, n.

Defn: The act of overseeing; inspection; superintendence; oversight.

SUPERVISIVE
Su`per*vi"sive, a.

Defn: Supervisory. [R.]

SUPERVISOR
Su`per*vis"or, n.

1. One who supervises; an overseer; an inspector; a superintendent;
as, a supervisor of schools.

2. A spectator; a looker-on. [Obs.] Shak.

SUPERVISORY
Su`per*vi"so*ry, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to supervision; as, supervisory powers.

SUPERVIVE
Su`per*vive", v. t. Etym: [L. supervivere. See Survive.]

Defn: To survive; to outlive. [Obs.]

SUPERVOLUTE
Su`per*vo*lute", a. Etym: [L. supervolutus, p.p. of supervolvere to
roll over; super over + volvere to roll.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having a plainted and convolute arrangement in the bud, as in
the morning-glory.

SUPINATION
Su`pi*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. supinare, supinatum, to bend or lay
backward, fr. supinus supine: cf. F. supination. See Supine.]
(Physiol.)
(a) The act of turning the hand palm upward; also, position of the
hand with the palm upward.
(b) The act or state of lying with the face upward. Opposed to Ant:
pronation.

SUPINATOR
Su`pi*na"tor, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle which produces the motion of supination.

SUPINE
Su*pine", a. Etym: [L. supinus, akin to sub under, super above. Cf.
Sub-, Super-.]

1. Lying on the back, or with the face upward; -- opposed to prone.

2. Leaning backward, or inclining with exposure to the sun; sloping;
inclined.
If the vine On rising ground be placed, or hills supine. Dryden.

3. Negligent; heedless; indolent; listless.
He became pusillanimous and supine, and openly exposed to any
temptation. Woodward.

Syn.
 -- Negligent; heedless; indolent; thoughtless; inattentive;
listless; careless; drowsy.
 -- Su*pine"ly, adv.
 -- Su*pine"ness, n.

SUPINE
Su"pine, n. Etym: [L. supinum (sc. verbum), from supinus bent or
thrown backward, perhaps so called because, although furnished with
substantive case endings, it rests or falls back, as it were, on the
verb: cf. F. supin.] (Lat. Gram.)

Defn: A verbal noun; or (according to C.F.Becker), a case of the
infinitive mood ending in -um and -u, that in -um being sometimes
called the former supine, and that in -u the latter supine.

SUPINITY
Su*pin"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. supinitas.]

Defn: Supineness. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SUPPAGE
Sup"page, n. Etym: [From Sup.]

Defn: What may be supped; pottage. [Obs.] Hooker.

SUPPALPATION
Sup`pal*pa"tion, n. Etym: [L. suppalpari to caress a little; sub
under, a little + palpare to caress.]

Defn: The act of enticing by soft words; enticement. [Obs.]

SUPPARASITATION
Sup*par`a*si*ta"tion, n. Etym: [See Supparasite.]

Defn: The act of flattering to gain favor; servile approbation.
[Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SUPPARASITE
Sup*par"a*site, v. t. Etym: [L. supparasitari; sub under, a little +
parasitus a parasite.]

Defn: To flatter; to cajole; to act the parasite. [Obs.] Dr. R.
Clerke.

SUPPAWN
Sup*pawn", n.

Defn: See Supawn.

SUPPEDANEOUS
Sup`pe*da"ne*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. sub- + L. pes, pedis, a foot: cf.
L. suppedaneum a footstool.]

Defn: Being under the feet. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SUPPEDITATE
Sup*ped"i*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. suppeditatus, p.p. of suppeditare to
supply.]

Defn: To supply; to furnish. [Obs.] Hammond.

SUPPEDITATION
Sup*ped`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. suppeditatio.]

Defn: Supply; aid afforded. [Obs.] Bacon.

SUPPER
Sup"per, n. Etym: [OE. soper, super, OF. super, soper, F. souper;
originally an infinitive, to sup, take a meal. See Soup, and cf. Sup
to take supper.]

Defn: A meal taken at the close of the day; the evening meal.

Note: Supper is much used in an obvious sense, either adjectively or
as the first part of a compound; as, supper time or supper-time,
supper bell, supper hour, etc.

SUPPER
Sup"per, v. i.

Defn: To take supper; to sup. [R.]

SUPPER
Sup"per, v. t.

Defn: To supply with supper. [R.] "Kester was suppering the horses."
Mrs. Gaskell.

SUPPERLESS
Sup"per*less, a.

Defn: Having no supper; deprived of supper; as, to go supperless to
bed. Beau. & Fl.

SUPPING
Sup"ping, n.

1. The act of one who sups; the act of taking supper.

2. That which is supped; broth. [Obs.] Holland.

SUPPLACE
Sup*place", v. t.

Defn: To replace. [R.] J. Bascom.

SUPPLANT
Sup*plant", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supplanted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Supplanting.] Etym: [F. supplanter, L. supplantare to trip up one's
heels, to throw down; sub under + planta the sole of the foot, also,
a sucker, slip, sprout. Cf. Plant, n.]

1. To trip up. [Obs.] "Supplanted, down he fell." Milton.

2. To remove or displace by stratagem; to displace and take the place
of; to supersede; as, a rival supplants another in the favor of a
mistress or a prince.
Suspecting that the courtier had supplanted the friend. Bp. Fell.

3. To overthrow, undermine, or force away, in order to get a
substitute in place of.
You never will supplant the received ideas of God. Landor.

Syn.
 -- To remove; displace; overpower; undermine; overthrow; supersede.

SUPPLANTATION
Sup`plan*ta"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. supplantation, L. supplantatio
hypocritical deceit.]

Defn: The act of supplanting or displacing.
Habitual supplantation of immediate selfishness. Cloeridge.

SUPPLANTER
Sup*plan"ter, n.

Defn: One who supplants.

SUPPLE
Sup"ple, a. Etym: [OE. souple, F. souple, from L. supplex suppliant,
perhaps originally, being the knees. Cf. Supplicate.]

1. Pliant; flexible; easily bent; as, supple joints; supple fingers.

2. Yielding compliant; not obstinate; submissive to guidance; as, a
supple horse.
If punishment . . . makes not the will supple, it hardens the
offender. Locke.

3. Bending to the humor of others; flattering; fawning; obsequious.
Addison.

Syn.
 -- Pliant; flexible; yielding; compliant; bending; flattering;
fawning; soft.

SUPPLE
Sup"ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suppled; p. pr. & vb. n. Suppling.]

1. To make soft and pliant; to render flexible; as, to supple
leather.
The flesh therewith she suppled and did steep. Spenser.

2. To make compliant, submissive, or obedient.
A mother persisting till she had bent her daughter's mind and suppled
her will. Locke.
They should supple our stiff willfulness. Barrow.

SUPPLE
Sup"ple, v. i.

Defn: To become soft and pliant.
The stones . . . Suppled into softness as they fell. Dryden.

SUPPLE-CHAPPED
Sup"ple-chapped`, a.

Defn: Having a limber tongue. [R.] "A supple-chapped flatterer."
Marston.

SUPPLE-JACK
Sup"ple-jack`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A climbing shrub (Berchemia volubilus) of the Southern United
States, having a tough and pliable stem.
(b) A somewhat similar tropical American plant (Paullinia
Curassavica); also, a walking stick made from its stem.
He was in form and spirit like a supple-jack, . . . yielding, but
tough; though he bent, he never broke. W. Irving.

Note: This name is given to various plants of similar habit in
different British colonies.

SUPPLELY
Sup"ple*ly, adv.

Defn: In a supple manner; softly; pliantly; mildly. Cotgrave.

SUPPLEMENT
Sup"ple*ment, n. Etym: [F. supplement, L. supplementum, fr. supplere
to fill up. See Supply, v. t.]

1. That which supplies a deficiency, or meets a want; a store; a
supply. [Obs.] Chapman.

2. That which fills up, completes, or makes an addition to, something
already organized, arranged, or set apart; specifically, a part added
to, or issued as a continuation of, a book or paper, to make good its
deficiencies or correct its errors.

3. (Trig.)

Defn: The number of degrees which, if added to a specified arc, make
it 180; the quantity by which an arc or an angle falls short of 180
degrees, or an arc falls short of a semicircle.

Syn.
 -- Appendix.
 -- Appendix, Supplement. An appendix is that which is appended to
something, but is not essential to its completeness; a supplement is
that which supplements, or serves to complete or make perfect, that
to which it is added.

SUPPLEMENT
Sup"ple*ment, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supplemented; p. pr. & vb. n.
Supplementing.]

Defn: To fill up or supply by addition; to add something to.
Causes of one kind must be supplemented by bringing to bear upon them
a causation of another kind. I. Taylor.

SUPPLEMENTAL; SUPPLEMENTARY
Sup`ple*men"tal, Sup`ple*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. supplementaire.]

Defn: Added to supply what is wanted; additional; being, or serving
as, a supplement; as, a supplemental law; a supplementary sheet or
volume. Supplemental air (Physiol.), the air which in addition to the
residual air remains in the lungs after ordinary expiration, but
which, unlike the residual air, can be expelled; reserve air.
 -- Supplemental bill (Equity), a bill filed in aid of an original
bill to supply some deffect in the latter, or to set forth new facts
which can not be done by amendment. Burrill. Daniel.
 -- Supplementary chords (Math.), in an ellipse or hyperbola, any two
chords drawn through the extremities of a diameter, and intersecting
on the curve.

SUPPLEMENTATION
Sup`ple*men*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of supplementing. C. Kingsley.

SUPPLENESS
Sup"ple*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being supple; flexibility; pliableness;
pliancy.

SUPPLETIVE; SUPPLETORY
Sup"ple*tive, Sup"ple*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. suppletif, LL.
suppletivus, from L. supplere, suppletum, to fill up. See Supply.]

Defn: Supplying deficiencies; supplementary; as, a suppletory oath.

SUPPLETORY
Sup"ple*to*ry, n.; pl. Suppletories (.

Defn: That which is to supply what is wanted.
Invent suppletories to excuse an evil man. Jer. Taylor.

SUPPLIAL
Sup*pli"al, n.

Defn: The act of supplying; a supply. "The supplial of a
preposition." Fitzed. Hall.

SUPPLIANCE
Sup*pli"ance, n. Etym: [From Supply.]

Defn: That which supplies a want; assistance; a gratification;
satisfaction. [R.]
The perfume and suppliance of a minute. Shak.

SUPPLIANCE
Sup*pli"ance, n. Etym: [See Suppliant.]

Defn: Supplication; entreaty.
When Greece her knee in suppliance bent. Halleck.

SUPPLIANT
Sup"pli*ant, a. Etym: [F., p.pr. of supplier to entreat, L.
supplicare. See Supplicate, and cf. Supplicant.]

1. Asking earnestly and submissively; entreating; beseeching;
supplicating.
The rich grow suppliant, and the poor grow proud. Dryden.

2. Manifesting entreaty; expressive of supplication.
To bow and sue for grace With suppliant knee. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Entreating; beseeching; suing; begging; supplicating; imploring.
 -- Sup"pli*ant*ly, adv.
 -- Sup"pli*ant*ness, n.

SUPPLIANT
Sup"pli*ant, n.

Defn: One who supplicates; a humble petitioner; one who entreats
submissively.
Hear thy suppliant's prayer. Dryden.

SUPPLICANCY
Sup"pli*can*cy, n.

Defn: Supplication. [R.]

SUPPLICANT
Sup"pli*cant, a. Etym: [L. supplicans, p.pr. See Supplicate, and cf.
Suppliant.]

Defn: Entreating; asking submissively. Shak.
 -- Sup"pli*cant*ly, adv.

SUPPLICANT
Sup"pli*cant, n.

Defn: One who supplicates; a suppliant.
The wise supplicant . . . left the event to God. Rogers.

SUPPLICAT
Sup"pli*cat, n. Etym: [L., he supplicates.] (Eng. Universities)

Defn: A petition; esp., a written one, with a certificate that the
conditions have been complied with.

SUPPLICATE
Sup"pli*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supplicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Supplicating.] Etym: [L. supplicatus, p.p. of supplicare to
supplicate; of uncertain origin, cf. supplex, supplicis, humbly
begging or entreating; perhaps fr. sub under + a word akin to placare
to reconcile, appease (cf. Placable), or fr. sub under + plicare to
fold, whence the idea of bending the knees (cf. Ply, v. t.). Cf.
Supple.]

1. To entreat for; to seek by earnest prayer; to ask for earnestly
and humbly; as, to supplicate blessings on Christian efforts to
spread the gospel.

2. To address in prayer; to entreat as a supplicant; as, to
supplicate the Deity.

Syn.
 -- To beseech; entreat; beg; petition; implore; importune; solicit;
crave. See Beseech.

SUPPLICATE
Sup"pli*cate, v. i.

Defn: To make petition with earnestness and submission; to implore.
A man can not brook to supplicate or beg. Bacon.

SUPPLICATINGLY
Sup"pli*ca`ting*ly, adv.

Defn: In a supplicating manner.

SUPPLICATION
Sup`pli*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F. supplication, L. supplicatio.]

1. The act of supplicating; humble and earnest prayer, as in worship.

2. A humble petition; an earnest request; an entreaty.

3. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A religious solemnity observed in consequence of some military
success, and also, in times of distress and danger, to avert the
anger of the gods.

Syn.
 -- Entreaty; petition; solicitation; craving.

SUPPLICATOR
Sup"pli*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who supplicates; a supplicant.

SUPPLICATORY
Sup"pli*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. supplicatoire.]

Defn: Containing supplication; humble; earnest.

SUPPLIER
Sup*pli"er, n.

Defn: One who supplies.

SUPPLY
Sup*ply", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supplied; p. pr. & vb. n. Supplying.]
Etym: [For older supploy, F. suppleer, OF. also supployer, (assumed)
LL. suppletare, from L. supplere, suppletum; sub under + plere to
fill, akin to plenus full. See Plenty.]

1. To fill up, or keep full; to furnish with what is wanted; to
afford, or furnish with, a sufficiency; as, rivers are supplied by
smaller streams; an aqueduct supplies an artificial lake; -- often
followed by with before the thing furnished; as, to supply a furnace
with fuel; to supply soldiers with ammunition.

2. To serve instead of; to take the place of.
Burning ships the banished sun supply. Waller.
The sun was set, and Vesper, to supply His absent beams, had lighted
up the sky. Dryden.

3. To fill temporarily; to serve as substitute for another in, as a
vacant place or office; to occupy; to have possession of; as, to
supply a pulpit.

4. To give; to bring or furnish; to provide; as, to supply money for
the war. Prior.

Syn.
 -- To furnish; provide; administer; minister; contribute; yield;
accommodate.

SUPPLY
Sup*ply", n.; pl. Supplies (.

1. The act of supplying; supplial. A. Tucker.

2. That which supplies a want; sufficiency of things for use or want.
Specifically: --
(a) Auxiliary troops or reenforcements. "My promised supply of
horsemen." Shak.
(b) The food, and the like, which meets the daily necessities of an
army or other large body of men; store; -- used chiefly in the
plural; as, the army was discontented for lack of supplies.
(c) An amount of money provided, as by Parliament or Congress, to
meet the annual national expenditures; generally in the plural; as,
to vote supplies.
(d) A person who fills a place for a time; one who supplies the place
of another; a substitute; esp., a clergyman who supplies a vacant
pulpit. Stated supply (Eccl.), a clergyman employed to supply a
pulpit for a definite time, but not settled as a pastor. [U.S.] --
Supply and demand. (Polit. Econ.) "Demand means the quantity of a
given article which would be taken at a given price. Supply means the
quantity of that article which could be had at that price." F. A.
Walker.

SUPPLY
Sup*ply", a.

Defn: Serving to contain, deliver, or regulate a supply of anything;
as, a supply tank or valve. Supply system (Zool.), the system of
tubes and canals in sponges by means of which food and water are
absorbed. See Illust. of Spongi?.

SUPPLYANT
Sup*ply"ant, a.

Defn: Supplying or aiding; auxiliary; suppletory. [Obs.] Shak.

SUPPLYMENT
Sup*ply"ment, n.

Defn: A supplying or furnishing; supply. [Obs.] Shak.

SUPPORT
Sup*port", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supported; p. pr. & vb. n.
Supporting.] Etym: [F. supporter, L. supportare to carry on, to
convey, in LL., to support, sustain; sub under + portare to carry.
See Port demeanor.]

1. To bear by being under; to keep from falling; to uphold; to
sustain, in a literal or physical sense; to prop up; to bear the
weight of; as, a pillar supports a structure; an abutment supports an
arch; the trunk of a tree supports the branches.

2. To endure without being overcome, exhausted, or changed in
character; to sustain; as, to support pain, distress, or misfortunes.
This fierce demeanor and his insolence The patience of a god could
not support. Dryden.

3. To keep from failing or sinking; to solace under affictive
circumstances; to assist; to encourage; to defend; as, to support the
courage or spirits.

4. To assume and carry successfully, as the part of an actor; to
represent or act; to sustain; as, to support the character of King
Lear.

5. To furnish with the means of sustenance or livelihood; to
maintain; to provide for; as, to support a family; to support the
ministers of the gospel.

6. To carry on; to enable to continue; to maintain; as, to support a
war or a contest; to support an argument or a debate.

7. To verify; to make good; to substantiate; to establish; to
sustain; as, the testimony is not sufficient to support the charges;
the evidence will not support the statements or allegations.
To urge such arguments, as though they were sufficient to support and
demonstrate a whole scheme of moral philosophy. J. Edwards.

8. To vindicate; to maintain; to defend successfully; as, to be able
to support one's own cause.

9. To uphold by aid or countenance; to aid; to help; to back up; as,
to support a friend or a party; to support the present
administration.
Wherefore, bold pleasant, Darest thou support a published traitor
Shak.

10. A attend as an honorary assistant; as, a chairman supported by a
vice chairman; O'Connell left the prison, supported by his two sons.
Support arms (Mil.), a command in the manual of arms in responce to
which the piece is held vertically at the shoulder, with the hammer
resting on the left forearm, which is passed horizontally across the
body in front; also, the position assumed in response to this
command.

Syn.
 -- To maintain; endure; verify; substantiate; countenance;
patronize; help; back; second; succor; relieve; uphold; encourage;
favor; nurture; nourish; cherish; shield; defend; protect; stay;
assist; forward.

SUPPORT
Sup*port", n. Etym: [F.]

1. The act, state, or operation of supporting, upholding, or
sustaining.

2. That which upholds, sustains, or keeps from falling, as a prop, a
pillar, or a foundation of any kind.

3. That which maintains or preserves from being overcome, falling,
yielding, sinking, giving way, or the like; subsistence; maintenance;
assistance; reenforcement; as, he gave his family a good support, the
support of national credit; the assaulting column had the support of
a battery. Points of support (Arch.), the horizontal area of the
solids of a building, walls, piers, and the like, as compared with
the open or vacant spaces.
 -- Right of support (Law), an easement or servitude by which the
owner of a house has a right to rest his timber on the walls of his
neighbor's house. Kent.

Syn.
 -- Stay; prop; maintenance; subsistence; assistance; favor;
countenance; encouragement; patronage; aid; help; succor; nutriment;
sustenance; food.

SUPPORTABLE
Sup*port"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. supportable.]

Defn: Capable of being supported, maintained, or endured; endurable.
 -- Sup*port"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Sup*port"a*bly, adv.

SUPPORTANCE
Sup*port"ance, n.

Defn: Support. [Obs.] Shak.

SUPPORTATION
Sup`por*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Maintenance; support. [Obs.] Chaucer. Bacon.

SUPPORTER
Sup*port"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, supports; as, oxygen is a supporter of
life.
The sockets and supporters of flowers are figured. Bacon.
The saints have a . . . supporter in all their miseries. South.

2. Especially, an adherent; one who sustains, advocates, and defends;
as, the supporter of a party, faction, or candidate.

3. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A knee placed under the cathead.

4. (Her.)

Defn: A figure, sometimes of a man, but commonly of some animal,
placed on either side of an escutcheon, and exterior to it. Usually,
both supporters of an escutcheon are similar figures.

5. (Med.)

Defn: A broad band or truss for supporting the abdomen or some other
part or organ.

SUPPORTFUL
Sup*port"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding with support. [Obs.] Chapman.

SUPPORTLESS
Sup*port"less, a.

Defn: Having no support. Milton.

SUPPORTMENT
Sup*port"ment, n.

Defn: Support. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

SUPPORTRESS
Sup*port"ress, n.

Defn: A female supporter. [R.]
You are my gracious patroness and supportress. Massinger.

SUPPOSABLE
Sup*pos"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being supposed, or imagined to exist; as, that is
not a supposable case.
 -- Sup*pos"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Sup*pos"a*bly, adv.

SUPPOSAL
Sup*pos"al, n.

Defn: The act of supposing; also, that which is supposed;
supposition; opinion. Shak.
Interest, with a Jew, never proceeds but upon supposal, at least, of
a firm and sufficient bottom. South.

SUPPOSE
Sup*pose", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Supposed; p. pr. & vb. n. Supposing.]
Etym: [F. supposer; pref. sub- under + poser to place; --
corresponding in meaning to L. supponere, suppositum, to put under,
to substitute, falsify, counterfeit. See Pose.]

1. To represent to one's self, or state to another, not as true or
real, but as if so, and with a view to some consequence or
application which the reality would involve or admit of; to imagine
or admit to exist, for the sake of argument or illustration; to
assume to be true; as, let us suppose the earth to be the center of
the system, what would be the result
Suppose they take offence without a cause. Shak.
When we have as great assurance that a thing is, as we could
possibly, supposing it were, we ought not to make any doubt of its
existence. Tillotson.

2. To imagine; to believe; to receive as true.
How easy is a bush supposed a bear! Shak.
Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men, the
king's sons; for Amnon only is dead. 2 Sam. xiii. 32.

3. To require to exist or to be true; to imply by the laws of thought
or of nature; as, purpose supposes foresight.
One falsehood always supposes another, and renders all you can say
suspected. Female Quixote.

4. To put by fraud in the place of another. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- To imagine; believe; conclude; judge; consider; view; regard;
conjecture; assume.

SUPPOSE
Sup*pose", v. i.

Defn: To make supposition; to think; to be of opinion. Acts ii. 15.

SUPPOSE
Sup*pose", n.

Defn: Supposition. [Obs.] Shak. "A base suppose that he is honest."
Dryden.

SUPPOSEER
Sup*pose"er, n.

Defn: One who supposes.

SUPPOSITION
Sup`po*si"tion, n. Etym: [F. supposition, L. suppositio a placing
under, a substitution, fr. supponere, suppositium, to put under, to
substitute. The word has the meaning corresponding to suppose. See
Sub-, and Position.]

1. The act of supposing, laying down, imagining, or considering as
true or existing, what is known not to be true, or what is not
proved.

2. That which is supposed; hypothesis; conjecture; surmise; opinion
or belief without sufficient evidence.
This is only an infallibility upon supposition that if a thing be
true, it is imposible to be false. Tillotson.
He means are in supposition. Shak.

SUPPOSITIONAL
Sup`po*si"tion*al, a.

Defn: Resting on supposition; hypothetical; conjectural; supposed.
South.

SUPPOSITITIOUS
Sup*pos`i*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. suppositicus. See Supposition.]

1. Fraudulently substituted for something else; not being what is
purports to be; not genuine; spurious; counterfeit; as, a
supposititious child; a supposititious writing. Bacon.

2. Suppositional; hypothetical. [R.] Woodward.
 -- Sup*pos`i*ti"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Sup*pos`i*ti"tious*ness, n.

SUPPOSITIVE
Sup*pos"i*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. suppositif.]

Defn: Including or implying supposition, or hypothesis; supposed.
 -- Sup*pos"i*tive*ly, adv. Hammond.

SUPPOSITIVE
Sup*pos"i*tive, n.

Defn: A word denoting or implying supposition, as the words if,
granting, provided, etc. Harris.

SUPPOSITOR
Sup*pos"i*tor, n. (Med.)

Defn: An apparatus for the introduction of suppositories into the
rectum.

SUPPOSITORY
Sup*pos"i*to*ry, n.; pl. Suppositories. Etym: [LL. suppositorium, fr.
L. suppositorius that is placed underneath: cf. F. suppositoire. See
Supposition.] (Med.)

Defn: A pill or bolus for introduction into the rectum; esp., a
cylinder or cone of medicated cacao butter.

SUPPOSURE
Sup*po"sure, n.

Defn: Supposition; hypothesis; conjecture. [Obs.] Hudibras.

SUPPRESS
Sup*press", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suppressed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suppressing.] Etym: [L. suppressus, p.p. of supprimere to suppress;
sub under + premere, pressum, to press. See Sub-, and Press.]

1. To overpower and crush; to subdue; to put down; to quell.
Every rebellion, when it is suppressed, doth make the subject weaker,
and the prince stronger. Sir J. Davies.

2. To keep in; to restrain from utterance or vent; as, to suppress
the voice; to suppress a smile. Sir W. Scott.

3. To retain without disclosure; to conceal; not to reveal; to
prevent publication of; as, to suppress evidence; to suppress a
pamphlet; to suppress the truth.
She suppresses the name, and this keeps him in a pleasing suspense.
Broome.

4. To stop; to restrain; to arrest the discharges of; as, to suppress
a diarrhea, or a hemorrhage.

Syn.
 -- To repress; restrain; put down; overthrow; overpower; overwhelm;
conceal; stifle; stop; smother.

SUPPRESSIBLE
Sup*press"i*ble, a.

Defn: That may be suppressed.

SUPPRESSION
Sup*pres"sion, n. Etym: [L. suppressio: cf. F. suppression.]

1. The act of suppressing, or the state of being suppressed;
repression; as, the suppression of a riot, insurrection, or tumult;
the suppression of truth, of reports, of evidence, and the like.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Complete stoppage of a natural secretion or excretion; as,
suppression of urine; -- used in contradiction to retention, which
signifies that the secretion or excretion is retained without
expulsion. Quain.

3. (Gram.)

Defn: Omission; as, the suppression of a word.

Syn.
 -- Overthrow; destruction; concealment; repression; detention;
retention; obstruction.

SUPPRESSIVE
Sup*press"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to suppress; subduing; concealing.

SUPPRESSOR
Sup*press"or, n. Etym: [L., hider.]

Defn: One who suppresses.

SUPPRISE
Sup*prise", v. t.

Defn: To surprise. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SUPPURANT
Sup"pu*rant, n. (Med.)

Defn: A suppurative.

SUPPURATE
Sup"pu*rate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Suppurated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suppurating.] Etym: [L. suppuratus, p.p. of suppurare to suppurate,
cause to suppurate; sub under + pus, puris, matter. See Pus.]

Defn: To generate pus; as, a boil or abscess suppurates.

SUPPURATE
Sup"pu*rate, v. t.

Defn: To cause to generate pus; as, to suppurate a sore. Arbuthnot.

SUPPURATION
Sup`pu*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. suppuratio: cf. F. suppuration.]

1. The act or process of suppurating.

2. The matter produced by suppuration; pus.

SUPPURATIVE
Sup"pu*ra*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. suppuratif.]

Defn: Tending to suppurate; promoting suppuration. Suppurative fever
(Med.), py?mia.

SUPPURATIVE
Sup"pu*ra*tive, n. (Med.)

Defn: A suppurative medicine.

SUPPUTATE
Sup"pu*tate, v. t. Etym: [L. supputatus, p.p. of supputare. See
Suppute.]

Defn: To suppute. [Obs.]

SUPPUTATION
Sup`pu*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. supputatio: cf. F. supputation.]

Defn: Reckoning; account. [Obs.]

SUPPUTE
Sup*pute", v. t. Etym: [F. supputer, or L. supputare; sub under +
putare to reckon.]

Defn: To reckon; to compute; to suppose; to impute. [Obs.] Drayton.

SUPRA
Su"pra, adv. Etym: [L.; akin to super. See Super-.]

Defn: Over; above; before; also, beyond; besides; -- much used as a
prefix.

SUPRA-ACROMIAL
Su`pra-a*cro"mi*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above the acromial process of the scapula.

SUPRA-ANGULAR
Su`pra-an"gu*lar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: See Surangular.

SUPRA-AURICULAR
Su`pra-au*ric"u*lar, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Situated above the ear coverts, or auriculars; -- said of
certain feathers of birds.
 -- n.

Defn: A supra-auricular feather.

SUPRA-AXILLARY
Su"pra-ax"il*la*ry, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing above the axil; inserted above the axil, as a peduncle.
See Suprafoliaceous.

SUPRABRANCHIAL
Su`pra*bran"chi*al, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Situated above the branchi?; -- applied especially to the upper
division of the gill cavity of bivalve mollusks.

SUPRACHOROID; SUPRACHOROIDAL
Su`pra*cho"roid, Su`pra*cho*roid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above the choroid; -- applied to the layer of the
choroid coat of the eyeball next to the sclerotic.

SUPRACILIARY
Su`pra*cil"i*a*ry, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Superciliary.

SUPRACLAVICLE
Su`pra*clav"i*cle, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A bone which usually connects the clavicle with the post-
temporal in the pectorial arch of fishes.

SUPRACLAVICULAR
Su`pra*cla*vic"u*lar, a. (Anat.)
(a) Situated above the clavicle.
(b) Of or pertaining to the supraclavicle.

SUPRACONDYLAR; SUPRACONDYLOID
Su`pra*con"dy*lar, Su`pra*con"dy*loid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above a condyle or condyles.

SUPRACOSTAL
Su`pra*cos"tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above, or on the outside of, the ribs.

SUPRACRANIAL
Su`pra*cra"ni*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above, or in the roof of, the cranium.

SUPRACRETACEOUS
Su`pra*cre*ta"ceous, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Lying above the chalk; Supercretaceous.

SUPRADECOMPOUND
Su`pra*de*com"pound, a. (Bot.)

Defn: More than decompound; divided many times.

SUPRA-ESOPHAGAL; SUPRA-ESOPHAGEAL
Su`pra-e*soph"a*gal, Su`pra-e`so*phag"e*al, a. (Bot. & Zool.)

Defn: Situated above, or on the dorsal side of, the esophagus; as,
the supra-esophageal ganglion of Crustacea. [Written also supra-
oesophagal, and supra-oesophageal.]

SUPRA-ETHMOID
Su`pra-eth"moid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Above, or on the dorsal side of, the ethmoid bone or cartilage.

SUPRAFOLIACEOUS
Su`pra*fo`li*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Inserted into the stem above the leaf, petiole, or axil, as a
peduncle or flower.

SUPRAGLOTIC
Su`pra*glot"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above the glottis; -- applied to that part of the
cavity of the larynx above the true vocal cords.

SUPRAHEPATIC
Su`pra*he*pat"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated over, or on the dorsal side of, the liver; -- applied
to the branches of the hepatic veins.

SUPRAHYOID
Su`pra*hy"oid, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Hyomental.

SUPRA-ILIUM
Su`pra-il"i*um, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The cartilaginous cap at the sacral end of the ilium of some
animals.

SUPRALAPSARIAN
Su`pra*lap*sa"ri*an, n. Etym: [Supra- + lapse: cf. F. supralapsaire.]
(Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of that class of Calvinists who believed that God's decree
of election determined that man should fall, in order that the
opportunity might be furnished of securing the redemption of a part
of the race, the decree of salvation being conceived of as formed
before or beyond, and not after or following, the lapse, or fall. Cf.
Infralapsarian.

SUPRALAPSARIAN
Su`pra*lap*sa"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Supralapsarians, or their doctrine.

SUPRALAPSARIANISM
Su`pra*lap*sa"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine, belief, or principles of the Supralapsarians.

SUPRALAPSARY
Su`pra*lap"sa*ry, a.

Defn: Supralapsarian.

SUPRALAPSARY
Su`pra*lap"sa*ry, n.

Defn: A Supralapsarian.

SUPRALORAL
Su`pra*lo"ral, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Situated above the lores; as, the supraloral feathers of a
bird.
 -- n.

Defn: A supraloral feather.

SUPRALUNAR; SUPRALUNARY
Su`pra*lu"nar, Su`pra*lu"na*ry, a.

Defn: Beyond the moon; hence, very lofty.

SUPRAMAXILLA
Su`pra*max"il*la, n.; pl. Supramaxill? (. (Anat.)

Defn: The upper jaw or maxilla.

SUPRAMAXILLARY
Su`pra*max"il*la*ry, a. (Anat.)
(a) Situated over the lower jaw; as, the supramaxillary nerve.
(b) Of or pertaining to the upper jaw.

SUPRAMUNDANE
Su`pra*mun"dane, a.

Defn: Being or situated above the world or above our system;
celestial.

SUPRANATURALISM
Su`pra*nat"u*ral*ism, n.

Defn: The state of being supernatural; belief in supernatural agency
or revelation; supernaturalism.

SUPRANATURALIST
Su`pra*nat"u*ral*ist, n.

Defn: A supernaturalist.

SUPRANATURALIST; SUPRANATURALISTIC
Su`pra*nat"u*ral*ist, Su`pra*nat`u*ral*is"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to supernaturalism; supernaturalistic.

SUPRAOCCIPITAL
Su`pra*oc*cip"i*tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated over, or in the upper part of, the occiput; of or
pertaining to the supraoccipital bone.
 -- n.

Defn: The supraoccipital bone. Supraoccipital bone (Anat.), a bone on
the dorsal side of the great foramen of the skull, usually forming a
part of the occipital in the adult, but distinct in the young.

SUPRAOCULAR
Su`pra*oc"u*lar, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Above the eyes; -- said of certain scales of fishes and
reptiles.

SUPRA-OESOPHAGAL
Su`pra-oe*soph"a*gal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: See Supra-esophagal.

SUPRAORBITAL; SUPRAORBITAR
Su`pra*or"bit*al, Su`pra*or"bit*ar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above the orbit of the eye. Supraorbital point
(Anat.), the middle point of the supraorbital line, which is a line
drawn across the narrowest part of the forehead, separating the face
from the cranium; the ophryon.

SUPRAPEDAL
Su*prap"e*dal, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Situated above the foot of a mollusk; as, the suprapedal gland.

SUPRAPROTEST
Su`pra*pro"test, n. (Mercantile Law)

Defn: An acceptance of a bill by a third person after protest for
nonacceptance by the drawee. Burrill.

SUPRAPUBIAN; SUPRAPUBIC
Su`pra*pu"bi*an, Su`pra*pu"bic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above, or anterior to, the pubic bone.

SUPRARENAL
Su`pra*re"nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above, or anterior to, the kidneys.
 -- n.

Defn: A suprarenal capsule. Suprarenal capsules (Anat.), two small
bodies of unknown function in front of, or near, the kidneys in most
vertebrates. Also called renal capsules, and suprarenal bodies.

SUPRASCALPULAR; SUPRASCALPULARY
Su`pra*scalp"u*lar, Su`pra*scalp"u*la*ry, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above, or on the anterior side of, the scapula.

SUPRASPHENOIDAL
Su`pra*sphe*noid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above the sphenoidal bone; as, the suprasphenoidal
appendage, or pituitary body.

SUPRASPINAL
Su`pra*spi"nal, a. (Anat.)
(a) Situated above the vertebral column.
(b) Situated above a spine or spines; supraspinate; supraspinous.

SUPRASPINATE; SUPRASPINOUS
Su`pra*spi"nate, Su`pra*spi"nous, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above a spine or spines; especially, situated above,
or on the dorsal side of, the neural spines of the vertebral column,
or above, or in front of, the spine of the scapula.

SUPRASTAPEDIAL
Su`pra*sta*pe"di*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, that part of the columella
of the ear which projects above the connection with the stapes, as in
many animals.
 -- n.

Defn: The suprastapedial part of the columella.

SUPRASTERNAL
Su`pra*ster"nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above, or anterior to, the sternum.

SUPRATEMPORAL
Su`pra*tem"po*ral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above the temporal bone or temporal fossa.
 -- n.

Defn: A supratemporal bone.

SUPRATROCHLEAR
Su`pra*troch"le*ar, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated over or above a trochlea or trochlear surface; --
applied esp. to one of the subdivisions of the trigeminal nerve.

SUPRAVAGINAL
Su`pra*vag"i*nal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated above or outside a sheath or vaginal membrane.

SUPRAVISION
Su`pra*vi"sion, n.

Defn: Supervision. [Obs.]

SUPRAVISOR
Su`pra*vis"or, n.

Defn: A supervisor. [Obs.]

SUPRAVULGAR
Su`pra*vul"gar, a.

Defn: Being above the vulgar or common people. [R.] Collier.

SUPREMACY
Su*prem"a*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. suprematie. See Supreme.]

Defn: The state of being supreme, or in the highest station of power;
highest or supreme authority or power; as, the supremacy of a king or
a parliament.
The usurped power of the pope being destroyed, the crown was restored
to its supremacy over spiritual men and causes. Blackstone.
Oath supremacy, an oath which acknowledges the supremacy of the
sovereign in spiritual affairs, and renounced or abjures the
supremacy of the pope in ecclesiastical or temporal affairs. [Eng.]
Brande & C.

SUPREME
Su*preme", a. Etym: [L. supremus, superlative of superus that is
above, upper, fr. super above: cf. F. supreme. See Super-, and cf.
Sum.]

1. Highest in authority; holding the highest place in authority,
government, or power.
He that is the supreme King of kings. Shak.

2. Highest; greatest; most excellent or most extreme; utmost;
greatist possible (sometimes in a bad sense); as, supreme love;
supreme glory; supreme magnanimity; supreme folly.
Each would be supreme within its own sphere, and those spheres could
not but clash. De Quincey.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: Situated at the highest part or point. The Supreme, the
Almighty; God.

SUPREMELY
Su*preme"ly, adv.

Defn: In a supreme manner.

SUPREMITY
Su*prem"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. supremitas.]

Defn: Supremacy. [Obs.] Fuller.

SUR-
Sur-. Etym: [F. sur over, above, contr. fr. L. super, supra. See
Super-.]

Defn: A prefix signifying over, above, beyond, upon.

SURA
Su"ra, n. Etym: [Ar., a step, a degree.]

Defn: One of the sections or chapters of the Koran, which are one
hundred and fourteen in number.

SURADANNI
Su`ra*dan"ni, n.

Defn: A valuable kind of wood obtained on the shores of the Demerara
River in South America, much used for timbers, rails, naves and
fellies of wheels, and the like.

SURADDITION
Sur`ad*di"tion, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Something added or appended, as to a name. [Obs.] Shak.

SURAH
Su"rah, n.

Defn: A soft twilled silk fabric much used for women's dresses; --
called also surah silk.

SURAL
Su"ral, a. Etym: [L. sura the calf of the leg: cf. F. sural.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the calf of the leg; as, the sural
arteries.

SURANCE
Sur"ance, n.

Defn: Assurance. [Obs.] Shak.

SURANGULAR
Sur*an"gu*lar, a. Etym: [Pref. sur- + angular.] (Anat.)

Defn: Above the angular bone; supra-angular; -- applied to a bone of
the lower jaw in many reptiles and birds.
 -- n.

Defn: The surangular bone.

SURBASE
Sur"base`, n. Etym: [Pref. sur- + base.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A cornice, or series of moldings, on the top of the base of a
pedestal, podium, etc. See Illust. of Column.

2. A board or group of moldings running round a room on a level with
the tops of the chair backs. Knight.

SURBASED
Sur"based`, a. (Arch.)
(a) Having a surbase, or molding above the base. (b) Etym: [F.
surbaisse.]

Defn: Having the vertical height from springing line to crown less
than the half span; -- said of an arch; as, a segmental arch is
surbased.

SURBATE
Sur*bate", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surbated; p. pr. & vb. n. Surbating.]
Etym: [F. solbatu, p.p., bruised (said of a horse's foot); sole a
sole (of a horse's foot) + battu, p.p. of battre to beat.]

1. To make sore or bruise, as the feet by travel. [Obs.]
Lest they their fins should bruise, and surbate sore Their tender
feet upon the stony ground. Spenser.
Chalky land surbates and spoils oxen's feet. Mortimer.

2. To harass; to fatigue. [Obs.] Clarendon.

SURBEAT
Sur*beat", v. t.

Defn: Same as Surbate. [Obs.]

SURBED
Sur*bed", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surbedded; p. pr. & vb. n. Surbedding.]
Etym: [Pref. sur- + bed.]

Defn: To set edgewise, as a stone; that is, to set it in a position
different from that which it had in the quarry.
It . . . has something of a grain parallel with the horizon, and
therefore should not be surbedded. Gilbert White.

SURBET
Sur*bet", v. t.

Defn: Same as Surbate. [Obs.]

SURBET
Sur*bet", a.

Defn: Surbated; bruised. [Obs.] Spenser.

SURCEASE
Sur*cease", n. Etym: [F. sursis, from sursis, p.p. of surseoir to
suspend, postpone, defer, in OF., to delay, refrain from, forbear, L.
supersedere. Surcease is not connected with E. cease. See Supersede.]

Defn: Cessation; stop; end. "Not desire, but its surcease."
Longfellow.
It is time that there were an end and surcease made of this immodest
and deformed manner of writing. Bacon.

SURCEASE
Sur*cease", v. t.

Defn: To cause to cease; to end. [Obs.] "The waves . . . their range
surceast." Spenser.
The nations, overawed, surceased the fight. Dryden.

SURCEASE
Sur*cease", v. i.

Defn: To cease. [Obs.]

SURCEASEANCE
Sur*cease"ance, n.

Defn: Cessation. [Obs.]

SURCHARGE
Sur*charge", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surcharged; p. pr. & vb. n.
Surcharging.] Etym: [F. surcharger. See Sur-, and Charge, and cf.
Overcharge, Supercharge, Supercargo.]

1. To overload; to overburden; to overmatch; to overcharge; as, to
surcharge a beast or a ship; to surcharge a cannon.
Four charged two, and two surcharged one. Spenser.
Your head reclined, as hiding grief from view, Droops like a rose
surcharged with morning dew. Dryden.

2. (Law)
(a) To overstock; especially, to put more cattle into, as a common,
than the person has a right to do, or more than the herbage will
sustain. Blackstone.
(b) (Equity) To show an omission in (an account) for which credit
ought to have been given. Story. Daniel.

SURCHARGE
Sur*charge", n. Etym: [F.]

1. An overcharge; an excessive load or burden; a load greater than
can well be borne.
A numerous nobility causeth poverty and inconvenience in a state, for
it is surcharge of expense. Bacon.

2. (Law)
(a) The putting, by a commoner, of more beasts on the common than he
has a right to.
(b) (Equity) The showing an omission, as in an account, for which
credit ought to have been given. Burrill.

SURCHARGEMENT
Sur*charge"ment, n.

Defn: The act of surcharging; also, surcharge, surplus. [Obs.]
Daniel.

SURCHARGER
Sur*char"ger, n.

Defn: One who surcharges.

SURCINGLE
Sur"cin`gle, n. Etym: [OE. sursengle, OF. sursangle. See Sur-, and
Cingle, Shingles.]

1. A belt, band, or girth which passes over a saddle, or over
anything laid on a horse's back, to bind it fast.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: The girdle of a cassock, by which it is fastened round the
waist.

SURCINGLED
Sur"cin`gled, a.

Defn: Bound with the surcingle.

SURCLE
Sur"cle, n. Etym: [L. surculus.]

Defn: A little shoot; a twig; a sucker. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SURCLOY
Sur"cloy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surcloyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Surcloying.]

Defn: To surfeit. [Obs.]

SURCOAT
Sur"coat`, n. Etym: [OE. surcote, OF. surcote. See Sur-, and Coat,
and cf. Overcoat.]

1. A coat worn over the other garments; especially, the long and
flowing garment of knights, worn over the armor, and frequently
emblazoned with the arms of the wearer.
A long surcoat of pers upon he had.. Chaucer.
At night, or in the rain, He dons a surcoat which he doffs at morn.
Emerson.

2. A name given to the outer garment of either sex at different
epochs of the Middle Ages.

SURCREW
Sur"crew`, n. Etym: [From F. surcroit increase, or surcru, p.p. of
surcroitre to overgrow.]

Defn: Increase; addition; surplus. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

SURCULATE
Sur"cu*late, v. t. Etym: [L. surculatus, p.p. of surculare to purne,
from surculus a shoot, sprout. See Surcle.]

Defn: To purne; to trim. [Obs.] Cockeram.

SURCULATION
Sur`cu*la"tion, n.

Defn: Act of purning. [Obs.]

SURCULOSE
Sur"cu*lose`, a. Etym: [CF. L. sucrulosus woody. See Surcle.] (Bot.)

Defn: Producing suckers, or shoots resembling suckers.

SURD
Surd, a. Etym: [L. surdus deaf (whence the meaning, deaf to reason,
irrational), perhaps akin to E. swart. Cf. Sordine.]

1. Net having the sense of hearing; deaf. [Obs.] "A surd . . .
generation." Sir T. Browne.

2. Unheard. [Obs.] Kenrick.

3. (Math.)

Defn: Involving surds; not capable of being expressed in rational
numbers; radical; irrational; as, a surd expression or quantity; a
surd number.

4. (Phonetics)

Defn: Uttered, as an element of speech, without tone, or proper vocal
sound; voiceless; unintonated; nonvocal; atonic; whispered;
aspirated; sharp; hard, as f, p, s, etc.; -- opposed to sonant. See
Guide to Pronunciation, 169, 179, 180.

SURD
Surd, n. (Math.)

1. A quantity which can not be expressed by rational numbers; thus,
*2 is a surd.

2. (Phon.)

Defn: A surd element of speech. See Surd, a., 4.

SURDAL
Surd"al, a. (Math.)

Defn: Same as Surd, a., 3.

SURDINY
Surd"i*ny, n.

Defn: A sardine. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

SURDITY
Surd"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. surditas.]

Defn: Deafness. [Obs.]

SURE
Sure, a. [Compar. Surer; superl. Surest.] Etym: [OE. sur, OF. seur,
F. sur, L. securus; se aside, without + cura care. See Secure, and
cf. Assure, Insure, Sicker sure.]

1. Certainly knowing and believing; confident beyond doubt; implicity
trusting; unquestioning; positive.
We are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against
them which commit such things. Rom. ii. 2.
I'm sure care 's an enemy of life. Shak.

2. Certain to find or retain; as, to be sure of game; to be sure of
success; to be sure of life or health.

3. Fit or worthy to be depended on; certain not to fail or disappoint
expectation; unfailing; strong; permanent; enduring. "His sure word."
Keble.
The Lord will certainly make my lord a sure house; because my lord
fighteth the battles of the Lord. 1 Sam. xxv. 28.
The testimony of the Lord is sure. Ps. xix. 7.
Which put in good sure leather sacks. Chapman.

4. Betrothed; engaged to marry. [Obs.]
The king was sure to Dame Elizabeth Lucy, and her husband before God.
Sir T. More.
I presume . . . that you had been sure as fast as faith could bind
you, man and wife. Brome.

5. Free from danger; safe; secure.
Fear not; the forest is not three leagues off; If we recover that we
are sure enough. Shak.
-- To be sure, or Be sure, certainly; without doubt; as, Shall you do
To be sure I shall.
 -- To make sure. (a) To make certain; to secure so that there can be
no failure of the purpose or object. "Make Cato sure." Addison. "A
peace can not fail, provided we make sure of Spain." Sir W. Temple.
(b) To betroth. [Obs.]
She that's made sure to him she loves not well. Cotgrave.

Syn.
 -- Certain; unfailing; infallible; safe; firm; permanent; steady;
stable; strong; secure; indisputable; confident; positive.

SURE
Sure, adv.

Defn: In a sure manner; safely; certainly. "Great, sure, shall be thy
meed." Spenser.
'T is pleasant, sure, to see one's name in print. Byron.

SURE-FOOTED
Sure"-foot`ed, a.

Defn: Not liable to stumble or fall; as, a sure-footed horse.

SURELY
Sure"ly, adv.

1. In a sure or certain manner; certainly; infallibly; undoubtedly;
assuredly.
In the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die. Gen. ii.
17.
He that created something out of nothing, surely can raise great
things out of small. South.

2. Without danger; firmly; steadly; securely.
He that walketh uprightly walketh surely. Prov. x. 9.

SUREMENT
Sure"ment, n.

Defn: A making sure; surety. [Obs.]
Every surement and every bond. Chaucer.

SURENESS
Sure"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being sure; certainty.
For more sureness he repeats it. Woodward.
The law holds with equal sureness for all right action. Emerson.

SURESBY
Sures"by, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain. See Rudesby.]

Defn: One to be sure of, or to be relied on. [Obs.]
There is one which is suresby, as they say, to serve, if anything
will serve. Bradford.

SURETISHIP
Sure"ti*ship, n.

Defn: Suretyship. Prov. xi. 15.

SURETY
Sure"ty, n.; pl. Sureties. Etym: [OE. seurte, OF. seurte, F. surete.
See Sure, Security.]

1. The state of being sure; certainty; security.
Know of a surety, that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is
not theirs. Gen. xv. 13.
For the more surety they looked round about. Sir P. Sidney.

2. That which makes sure; that which confirms; ground of confidence
or security.
[We] our happy state Hold, as you yours, while our obedience holds;
On other surety none. Milton.

3. Security against loss or damage; security for payment, or for the
performance of some act.
There remains unpaid A hundred thousand more; in surety of the which
One part of Aquitaine is bound to us. Shak.

4. (Law)

Defn: One who is bound with and for another who is primarily liable,
and who is called the principal; one who engages to answer for
another's appearance in court, or for his payment of a debt, or for
performance of some act; a bondsman; a bail.
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it. Prov. xi. 15.

5. Hence, a substitute; a hostage. Cowper.

6. Evidence; confirmation; warrant. [Obs.]
She called the saints to surety, That she would never put it from her
finger, Unless she gave it to yourself. Shak.

SURETY
Sure"ty, v. t.

Defn: To act as surety for. [Obs.] Shak.

SURETYSHIP
Sure"ty*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being surety; the obligation of a person to answer
for the debt, default, or miscarriage of another. Bouvier.

SURF
Surf, n. Etym: [Formerly spelled suffe, and probably the same word as
E. sough.]

Defn: The swell of the sea which breaks upon the shore, esp. upon a
sloping beach. Surf bird (Zool.), a ploverlike bird of the genus
Aphriza, allied to the turnstone.
 -- Surf clam (Zool.), a large clam living on the open coast,
especially Mactra, or Spisula, solidissima. See Mactra.
 -- Surf duck (Zool.), any one of several species of sea ducks of the
genus Oidemia, especially O. percpicillata; -- called also surf
scoter. See the Note under Scoter.
 -- Surf fish (Zool.), any one of numerous species of California
embiotocoid fishes. See Embiotocoid.
 -- Surf smelt. (Zool.) See Smelt.
 -- Surf whiting. (Zool.) See under Whiting.

SURF
Surf, n.

Defn: The bottom of a drain. [Prov. Eng.]

SURFACE
Sur"face`, n. Etym: [F. See Sur-, and Face, and cf. Superficial.]

1. The exterior part of anything that has length and breadth; one of
the limits that bound a solid, esp. the upper face; superficies; the
outside; as, the surface of the earth; the surface of a diamond; the
surface of the body.
The bright surface of this ethereous mold. Milton.

2. Hence, outward or external appearance.
Vain and weak understandings, which penetrate no deeper than the
surface. V. Knox.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: A magnitude that has length and breadth without thickness;
superficies; as, a plane surface; a spherical surface.

4. (Fort.)

Defn: That part of the side which is terminated by the flank
prolonged, and the angle of the nearest bastion. Stocqueler. Caustic
surface, Heating surface, etc. See under Caustic, Heating, etc.
 -- Surface condensation, Surface condenser. See under Condensation,
and Condenser.
 -- Surface gauge (Mach.), an instrument consisting of a standard
having a flat base and carrying an adjustable pointer, for gauging
the evenness of a surface or its height, or for marking a line
parallel with a surface.
 -- Surface grub (Zool.), the larva of the great yellow underwing
moth (Triphoena pronuba). It is often destructive to the roots of
grasses and other plants.
 -- Surface plate (Mach.), a plate having an accurately dressed flat
surface, used as a standard of flatness by which to test other
surfaces.
 -- Surface printing, printing from a surface in relief, as from
type, in distinction from plate printing, in which the ink is
contained in engraved lines.

SURFACE
Sur"face, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surfaced; p. pr. & vb. n. Surfacing.]

1. To give a surface to; especially, to cause to have a smooth or
plain surface; to make smooth or plain.

2. To work over the surface or soil of, as ground, in hunting for
gold.

SURFACE LOADING
Sur"face load`ing. (Aeronautics)

Defn: The weight supported per square unit of surface; the quotient
obtained by dividing the gross weight, in pounds, of a fully loaded
flying machine, by the total area, in square feet, of its supporting
surface.

SURFACER
Sur"fa*cer, n.

Defn: A form of machine for dressing the surface of wood, metal,
stone, etc.

SURFACE TENSION
Sur"face ten"sion. (Physics)

Defn: That property, due to molecular forces, which exists in the
surface film of all liquids and tends to bring the contained volume
into a form having the least superficial area. The thickness of this
film, amounting to less than a thousandth of a millimeter, is
considered to equal the radius of the sphere of molecular action,
that is, the greatest distance at which there is cohesion between two
particles. Particles lying below this film, being equally acted on
from all sides, are in equilibrium as to forces of cohesion, but
those in the film are on the whole attracted inward, and tension
results.

SURFBOAT
Surf"boat`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A boat intended for use in heavy surf. It is built with a
pronounced sheer, and with a view to resist the shock of waves and of
contact with the beach.

SURFEIT
Sur"feit, n. Etym: [OE. surfet, OF. surfait, sorfait, excess,
arrogance, crime, fr. surfaire, sorfaire, to augment, exaggerate, F.
surfaire to overcharge; sur over + faire to make, do, L. facere. See
Sur-, and Fact.]

1. Excess in eating and drinking.
Let not Sir Surfeit sit at thy board. Piers Plowman.
Now comes the sick hour that his surfeit made. Shak.

2. Fullness and oppression of the system, occasioned often by
excessive eating and drinking.
To prevent surfeit and other diseases that are incident to those that
heat their blood by travels. Bunyan.

3. Disgust caused by excess; satiety. Sir P. Sidney.
Matter and argument have been supplied abundantly, and even to
surfeit. Burke.

SURFEIT
Sur"feit, v. i.

1. To load the stomach with food, so that sickness or uneasiness
ensues; to eat to excess.
They are as sick that surfeit with too much as they that starve with
nothing. Shak.

2. To indulge to satiety in any gratification.

SURFEIT
Sur"feit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surfeited; p. pr. & vb. n. Surfeiting.]

1. To feed so as to oppress the stomach and derange the function of
the system; to overfeed, and produce satiety, sickness, or
uneasiness; -- often reflexive; as, to surfeit one's self with
sweets.

2. To fill to satiety and disgust; to cloy; as, he surfeits us with
compliments. V. Knox.

SURFEITER
Sur"feit*er, n.

Defn: One who surfeits. Shak.

SURFEIT-WATER
Sur"feit-wa`ter, n.

Defn: Water for the cure of surfeits. [Obs.] Locke.

SURFEL; SURFLE
Sur"fel, Sur"fle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Sulphur.]

Defn: To wash, as the face, with a cosmetic water, said by some to be
prepared from the sulphur. [Obs.]
She shall no oftener powder her hair, [or] surfel her cheeks, . . .
but she shall as often gaze on my picture. Ford.

SURFER
Surf"er, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The surf duck. [U. S.]

SURFMAN
Surf"man, n.; pl. Surmen (.

Defn: One who serves in a surfboat in the life-saving service.

SURFOOT
Sur"foot`, a.

Defn: Tired or sore of foot from travel; lamed. [Obs.] Nares.

SURFY
Surf"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of, abounding in, or resembling, surf; as, a surfy
shore.
Scarce had they cleared the surfy waves That foam around those
frightful caves. Moore.

SURGE
Surge, n. Etym: [L. surgere, surrectum, to raise, to rise; sub under
+ regere to direct: cf. OF. surgeon, sourgeon, fountain. See Regent,
and cf. Insurrection, Sortie, Source.]

1. A spring; a fountain. [Obs.] "Divers surges and springs of water."
Ld. Berners.

2. A large wave or billow; a great, rolling swell of water, produced
generally by a high wind.
He that doubteth is like the surge of the sea driven by the wind and
tossed. James i. 6 (Rev. Ver.)
He flies aloft, and, with impetuous roar, Pursues the foaming surges
to the shore. Dryden.

3. The motion of, or produced by, a great wave.

4. The tapered part of a windlass barrel or a capstan, upon which the
cable surges, or slips.

SURGE
Surge, v. i.

1. To swell; to rise hifg and roll.
The surging waters like a mountain rise. Spenser.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To slip along a windlass.

SURGE
Surge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surged; p. pr. & vb. n. Surging.] Etym:
[Cf. F. surgir to cast anchor, to land. Cf. Surge, n.] (Naut.)

Defn: To let go or slacken suddenly, as a rope; as, to surge a hawser
or messenger; also, to slacken the rope about (a capstan).

SURGEFUL
Surge"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding in surges; surgy. "Tossing the surgeful tides."
Drayton.

SURGELESS
Surge"less, a.

Defn: Free from surges; smooth; calm.

SURGENT
Sur"gent, a. Etym: [L. surgens, p.pr.]

Defn: Rising; swelling, as a flood. [R.] Robert Greene.

SURGEON
Sur"geon, n. Etym: [OE. surgien, OF. surgien, contr. fr. chirurgien.
See Chirurgeon.]

1. One whose profession or occupation is to cure diseases or injuries
of the body by manual operation; one whose occupation is to cure
local injuries or disorders (such as wounds, dislocations, tumors,
etc.), whether by manual operation, or by medication and
constitutional treatment.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of ch?todont fishes of the family
Teuthid?, or Acanthurid?, which have one or two sharp lancelike
spines on each side of the base of the tail. Called also surgeon
fish, doctor fish, lancet fish, and sea surgeon. Surgeon apothecary,
one who unites the practice of surgery with that of the apothecary.
Dunglison.
 -- Surgeon dentist, a dental surgeon; a dentist.
 -- Surgeon fish. See def. 2, above.
 -- Surgeon general. (a) In the United States army, the chief of the
medical department. (b) In the British army, a surgeon ranking next
below the chief of the medical department.

SURGEONCY
Sur"geon*cy, n.

Defn: The office or employment of a surgeon, as in the naval or
military service.

SURGEONRY
Sur"geon*ry, n.

Defn: Surgery. [Obs.]

SURGERY
Sur"ge*ry, n. Etym: [OE. surgenrie, surgerie; cf. OF. cirurgie, F.
chirurgie, L. chirurgia, Gr. Surgeon.]

1. The art of healing by manual operation; that branch of medical
science which treats of manual operations for the healing of diseases
or injuries of the body; that branch of medical science which has for
its object the cure of local injuries or diseases, as wounds or
fractures, tumors, etc., whether by manual operation or by medicines
and constitutional treatment.

2. A surgeon's operating room or laboratory.

SURGICAL
Sur"gi*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to surgeons or surgery; done by means of
surgery; used in surgery; as, a surgical operation; surgical
instruments. Surgical fever. (Med.) (a) Py?mia. (b) Traumatic fever,
or the fever accompanying inflammation.

SURGICALLY
Sur"gi*cal*ly, adv.

Defn: By means of surgery.

SURGY
Sur"gy, a.

Defn: Rising in surges or billows; full of surges; resembling surges
in motion or appearance; swelling. "Over the surgy main." Pope.

SURICAT
Su"ri*cat, n. Etym: [F. surikate, from the native name in South
Africa.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Zenick. [Written also suricate, surikate.]

SURINAM TOAD
Su`ri*nam" toad". (Zool.)

Defn: A species of toad native of Surinam. See Pipa.

SURINTENDANT
Sur`in*tend"ant, n. Etym: [F. See Superintendent.]

Defn: Superintendent. [R.]

SURLILY
Sur"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a surly manner.

SURLINESS
Sur"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being surly.

SURLING
Sur"ling, n. Etym: [See Surly.]

Defn: A sour, morose fellow. [Obs.] Camden.

SURLOIN
Sur"loin`, n. Etym: [F. surlonge; sur upon + longe loin. See Sur-,
and Loin.]

Defn: A loin of beef, or the upper part of the loin. See Sirloin, the
more usual, but not etymologically preferable, orthography.

SURLY
Sur"ly, a. [Compar. Surlier; superl. Surliest.] Etym: [Probably from
sir, and originally meaning, sirlike, i.e., proud. See Sir, and Like,
a.]

1. Arrogant; haughty. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

2. Gloomily morose; ill-natured, abrupt, and rude; severe; sour;
crabbed; rough; sullen; gloomy; as, a surly groom; a surly dog; surly
language; a surly look. "That surly spirit, melancholy." Shak.

3. Rough; dark; tempestuous.
Now softened into joy the surly storm. Thomson.

SURMARK
Sur"mark`, n. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A mark made on the molds of a ship, when building, to show
where the angles of the timbers are to be placed. [Written also
sirmark.]

SURMISABLE
Sur*mis"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being surmised; as, a surmisable result.

SURMISAL
Sur*mis"al, n.

Defn: Surmise. [R.] Milton.

SURMISE
Sur*mise", n. Etym: [OF. surmise accusation, fr. surmettre, p.p.
surmis, to impose, accuse; sur (see Sur-) + mettre to put, set, L.
mittere to send. See Mission.]

1. A thought, imagination, or conjecture, which is based upon feeble
or scanty evidence; suspicion; guess; as, the surmisses of jealousy
or of envy.
[We] double honor gain From his surmise proved false. Milton.
No man ought to be charged with principles he actually disowns,
unless his practicies contradict his profession; not upon small
surmises. Swift.

2. Reflection; thought. [Obs.] Shak.

Syn.
 -- Conjecture; supposition; suspicion; doubt.

SURMISE
Sur*mise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surmised; p. pr. & vb. n. Surmising.]

Defn: To imagine without certain knowledge; to infer on slight
grounds; to suppose, conjecture, or suspect; to guess.
It wafted nearer yet, and then she knew That what before she but
surmised, was true. Dryden.
This change was not wrought by altering the form or position of the
earth, as was surmised by a very learned man, but by dissolving it.
Woodward.

SURMISER
Sur*mis"er, n.

Defn: One who surmises.

SURMISING
Sur*mis"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Surmise, v.

SURMOUNT
Sur*mount", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surmounted; p. pr. & vb. n.
Surmounting.] Etym: [OE. sourmounten, OF. surmonter, sormonter, F.
surmonter; sur over + monter to mount. See Sur-, and Mount, v. i.]

1. To rise above; to be higher than; to overtop.
The mountains of Olympus, Athos, and Atlas, overreach and surmount
all winds and clouds. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. To conquer; to overcome; as, to surmount difficulties or
obstacles. Macaulay.

3. To surpass; to exceed. Spenser.
What surmounts the reach Of human sense I shall delineate. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To conquer; overcome; vanquish; subdue; surpass; exceed.

SURMOUNTABLE
Sur*mount"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. surmontable.]

Defn: Capable of being surmounted or overcome; superable.
 -- Sur*mount"a*ble*ness, n.

SURMOUNTED
Sur*mount"ed, a.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: Having its vertical height greater than the half span; -- said
of an arch.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Partly covered by another charge; -- said of an ordinary or
other bearing.

SURMOUNTER
Sur*mount"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, surmounts.

SURMULLET
Sur*mul"let, n. Etym: [F. surmulet; saur, saure, brownish yellow, red
+ mulet a mullet. See Sorrel, a., and Mullet.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of various species of mullets of the family Millid?,
esp. the European species (Millus surmulletus), which is highly
prized as a food fish. See Mullet.

SURMULOT
Sur"mu*lot, n. Etym: [F.] (Zool.)

Defn: The brown, or Norway, rat.

SURNAME
Sur"name`, n. Etym: [Pref. sur + name; really a substitution for OE.
sournoun, from F. surnom. See Sur-, and Noun, Name.]

1. A name or appellation which is added to, or over and above, the
baptismal or Christian name, and becomes a family name.

Note: Surnames originally designated occupation, estate, place of
residence, or some particular thing or event that related to the
person; thus, Edmund Ironsides; Robert Smith, or the smith; William
Turner. Surnames are often also patronymics; as, John Johnson.

2. An appellation added to the original name; an agnomen. "My
surname, Coriolanus." Shak.

Note: This word has been sometimes written sirname, as if it
signified sire-name, or the name derived from one's father.

SURNAME
Sur*name", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surnamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Surnaming.]
Etym: [Cf. F. surnommer.]

Defn: To name or call by an appellation added to the original name;
to give a surname to.
Another shall subscribe with his hand unto the Lord, and surname
himself by the name of Israel. Isa. xliv. 5.
And Simon he surnamed Peter. Mark iii. 16.

SURNOMINAL
Sur*nom"i*nal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a surname or surnames.

SUROXIDATE
Sur*ox"i*date, v. t. (Chem.)

Defn: To combine with oxygen so as to form a suroxide or peroxide.
[Obs.]

SUROXIDE
Sur*ox"ide, n. Etym: [Cf. F. suroxyde. See Sur-, and Oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A peroxide. [Obs.]

SURPASS
Sur*pass", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surpassed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Surpassing.] Etym: [F. surpasser; sur over + passer to pass. See Sur-
, and Pass.]

Defn: To go beyond in anything good or bad; to exceed; to excel.
This would surpass Common revenge and interrupt his joy. Milton.

Syn.
 -- To exceed; excel; outdo; outstrip.

SURPASSABLE
Sur*pass"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be surpassed.

SURPASSING
Sur*pass"ing, a.

Defn: Eminently excellent; exceeding others. "With surpassing glory
crowned." Milton.
 -- Sur*pass"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Sur*pass"ing*ness, n.

SURPHUL
Sur"phul, v. t.

Defn: To surfel. [Obs.] Marston.

SURPLICE
Sur"plice, n. Etym: [F. surplis, OF. surpeiz, LL. superpellicium;
super over + pellicium, pelliceum, a robe of fur, L. pellicius made
of skins. See Pelisse.] (Eccl.)

Defn: A white garment worn over another dress by the clergy of the
Roman Catholic, Episcopal, and certain other churches, in some of
their ministrations. Surplice fees (Eccl.), fees paid to the English
clergy for occasional duties.

SURPLICED
Sur"pliced, a.

Defn: Wearing a surplice.

SURPLUS
Sur"plus, n. Etym: [F., fr. sur over + plus more. See Sur-, and Plus,
and cf. Superplus.]

1. That which remains when use or need is satisfied, or when a limit
is reached; excess; overplus.

2. Specifically, an amount in the public treasury at any time greater
than is required for the ordinary purposes of the government.

SURPLUS
Sur"plus, a.

Defn: Being or constituting a surplus; more than sufficient; as,
surplus revenues; surplus population; surplus words.
When the price of corn falleth, men give over surplus tillage, and
break no more ground. Carew.

SURPLUSAGE
Sur"plus*age, n. Etym: [See Surplus, and cf. Superplusage.]

1. Surplus; excess; overplus; as, surplusage of grain or goods beyond
what is wanted.
Take what thou please of all this surplusage. Spenser.
A surplusage given to one part is paid out of a reduction from
another part of the same creature. Emerson.

2. (Law)

Defn: Matter in pleading which is not necessary or relevant to the
case, and which may be rejected.

3. (Accounts)

Defn: A greater disbursement than the charge of the accountant
amounts to. [Obs.] Rees.

SURPRISAL
Sur*pris"al, n. Etym: [See Surprise, n.]

Defn: The act of surprising, or state of being surprised; surprise.
How to secure the lady from surprisal. Milton.
Because death is uncertain, let us prevent its surprisal. Barrow.

SURPRISE
Sur*prise", n. Etym: [F. surprise, fr. surprendre, surpris; sur over
+ prendre to take, L. prehendere. See Sur-, and Prehensile.]

1. The act of coming upon, or taking, unawares; the act of seizing
unexpectedly; surprisal; as, the fort was taken by surprise.

2. The state of being surprised, or taken unawares, by some act or
event which could not reasonably be foreseen; emotion excited by what
is sudden and strange; a suddenly excited feeling of wonder or
astonishment.
Pure surprise and fear Made me to quit the house. Shak.

3. Anything that causes such a state or emotion.

4. A dish covered with a crust of raised paste, but with no other
contents. [Obs.] King. Surprise party, a party of persons who
assemble by mutual agreement, and without invitation, at the house of
a common friend. [U.S.] Bartlett.

Syn.
 -- Wonder; astonishment; amazement.

SURPRISE
Sur*prise", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surprised; p. pr. & vb. n.
Surprising.] Etym: [From Surprise, n.: cf. F. surprendre, p.p.
surpris.]

1. To come or fall suddenly and unexpectedly; to take unawares; to
seize or capture by unexpected attack.
Fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. Isa. xxxiii. 14.
The castle of Macduff I will surprise. Shak.
Who can speak The mingled passions that surprised his heart Thomson.

2. To strike with wonder, astonishment, or confusion, by something
sudden, unexpected, or remarkable; to confound; as, his conduct
surprised me.
I am surprised with an uncouth fear. Shak.
Up he starts, Discovered and surprised. Milton.

3. To lead (one) to do suddenly and without forethought; to bring
(one) into some unexpected state; -- with into; as, to be surprised
into an indiscretion; to be surprised into generosity.

4. To hold possession of; to hold. [Obs.]
Not with me, That in my hands surprise the sovereignity. J. Webster.

Syn.
 -- See Astonish.

SURPRISEMENT
Sur*prise"ment, n.

Defn: Surprisal. [Obs.] Daniel.

SURPRISER
Sur*pris"er, n.

Defn: One who surprises.

SURPRISING
Sur*pris"ing, a.

Defn: Exciting surprise; extraordinary; of a nature to excite wonder
and astonishment; as, surprising bravery; a surprising escape from
danger.
 -- Sur*pris"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Sur*pris"ing*ness, n.

Syn.
 -- Wonderful; extraordinary; unexpected; astonishing; striking.

SURQUEDOUS; SURQUEDROUS
Sur"que*dous, Sur"que*drous, a.

Defn: Having or exhibiting surquedry; arrogant; insolent. [Obs.]
Gower. James II. of Scot.

SURQUEDRY; SURQUIDRY
Sur"que*dry, Sur"qui*dry, n. Etym: [OF. surcuidier to presume; sur
over + cuidier to think, L. cogitare. See Sur-, and Cogitate.]

Defn: Overweening pride; arrogance; presumption; insolence. [Obs.]
Chaucer.
Then pay you the price of your surquedry. Spenser.

SURREBOUND
Sur`re*bound", v. i.

Defn: To give back echoes; to reecho. [Obs.] Chapman.

SURREBUT
Sur`re*but", v. i. Etym: [Pref. sur + rebut.] (Law)

Defn: To reply, as a plaintiff to a defendant's rebutter.

SURREBUTER
Sur`re*but"er, n. (Law)

Defn: The reply of a plaintiff to a defendant's rebutter.

SURREIN
Sur"rein`, v. t. Etym: [Pref. sur + rein.]

Defn: To override; to exhaust by riding. [Obs.] Shak.

SURREJOIN
Sur`re*join", v. i. Etym: [Pref. sur + rejoin.] (Law)

Defn: To reply, as a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder.

SURREJOINDER
Sur`re*join"der, n. (Law)

Defn: The answer of a plaintiff to a defendant's rejoinder.

SURRENDER
Sur*ren"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surrendered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Surrendering.] Etym: [OF. surrendre to deliver; sur over + rendre to
render. See Sur-, and Render.]

1. To yield to the power of another; to give or deliver up possession
of (anything) upon compulsion or demand; as, to surrender one's
person to an enemy or to an officer; to surrender a fort or a ship.

2. To give up possession of; to yield; to resign; as, to surrender a
right, privilege, or advantage.
To surrender up that right which otherwise their founders might have
in them. Hooker.

3. To yield to any influence, emotion, passion, or power; -- used
reflexively; as, to surrender one's self to grief, to despair, to
indolence, or to sleep.

4. (Law)

Defn: To yield; to render or deliver up; to give up; as, a principal
surrendered by his bail, a fugitive from justice by a foreign state,
or a particular estate by the tenant thereof to him in remainder or
reversion.

SURRENDER
Sur*ren"der, v. i.

Defn: To give up one's self into the power of another; to yield; as,
the enemy, seeing no way of escape, surrendered at the first summons.

SURRENDER
Sur*ren"der, n.

1. The act of surrendering; the act of yielding, or resigning one's
person, or the possession of something, into the power of another;
as, the surrender of a castle to an enemy; the surrender of a right.
That he may secure some liberty he makes a surrender in trust of the
whole of it. Burke.

2. (Law)

Defn: The yielding of a particular estate to him who has an immediate
estate in remainder or reversion. (b) The giving up of a principal
into lawful custody by his bail. (c) The delivry up oh fugitives from
justice by one government to another, as by a foreign state. See
Extradition. Wharton.

SURRENDEREE
Sur*ren`der*ee", n. (Law)

Defn: The person to whom a surrender is made. Mozley & W.

SURRENDERER
Sur*ren"der*er, n.

Defn: One who surrenders.

SURRENDEROR
Sur*ren`der*or", n. (Law)

Defn: One who makes a surrender, as of an estate. Bouvier.

SURRENDRY
Sur*ren"dry, n.

Defn: Surrender. [Obs.]

SURREPTION
Sur*rep"tion, n. Etym: [L. surreptio, or subreptio. Cf. Subreption.]

1. The act or process of getting in a surreptitious manner, or by
craft or stealth.
Fame by surreption got May stead us for the time, but lasteth not. B.
Jonson.

2. A coming unperceived or suddenly.

SURREPTITIOUS
Sur`rep*ti"tious, a. Etym: [L. surreptitius, or subreptitius, fr.
surripere, subripere, to snatch away, to withdraw privily; sub- under
+ rapere to snatch. See Sub-, and Ravish.]

Defn: Done or made by stealth, or without proper authority; made or
introduced fraudulently; clandestine; stealthy; as, a surreptitious
passage in an old manuscript; a surreptitious removal of goods.
 -- Sur`rep*ti"tious*ly, adv.

SURREY
Sur"rey, n.

Defn: A four-wheeled pleasure carriage, (commonly two-seated)
somewhat like a phaeton, but having a straight bottom.

SURROGATE
Sur"ro*gate, n. Etym: [L. surrogatus, p.p. of surrogare, subrogare,
to put in another's place, to substitute; sub under + rogare to ask,
ask for a vote, propose a law. See Rogation, and cf. Subrogate.]

1. A deputy; a delegate; a substitute.

2. The deputy of an ecclesiastical judge, most commonly of a bishop
or his chancellor, especially a deputy who grants marriage licenses.
[Eng.]

3. In some States of the United States, an officer who presides over
the probate of wills and testaments and yield the settlement of
estates.

SURROGATE
Sur"ro*gate, v. t.

Defn: To put in the place of another; to substitute. [R.] Dr. H.
More.

SURROGATESHIP
Sur"ro*gate*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a surrogate.

SURROGATION
Sur`ro*ga"tion, n. Etym: [See Surrogate, n., and cf. Subrogation.]

Defn: The act of substituting one person in the place of another.
[R.] Killingbeck.

SURROUND
Sur*round", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surrounded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Surrounding.] Etym: [OF. suronder to overflow, LL. superundare; fr.
L. super over + undare to rise in waves, overflow, fr. unda wave. The
English sense is due to the influence of E. round. See Super-, and
Undulate, and cf. Abound.]

1. To inclose on all sides; to encompass; to environ.

2. To lie or be on all sides of; to encircle; as, a wall surrounds
the city.
But could instead, and ever-during dark Surrounds me. Milton.

3. To pass around; to travel about; to circumnavigate; as, to
surround the world. [Obs.] Fuller.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: To inclose, as a body of troops, between hostile forces, so as
to cut off means of communication or retreat; to invest, as a city.

Syn.
 -- To encompass; encircle; environ; invest; hem in; fence about.

SURROUND
Sur*round", n.

Defn: A method of hunting some animals, as the buffalo, by
surrounding a herd, and driving them over a precipice, into a ravine,
etc. [U.S.] Baird.

SURROUNDING
Sur*round"ing, a.

Defn: Inclosing; encircling.

SURROUNDING
Sur*round"ing, n.

1. An encompassing.

2. pl.

Defn: The things which surround or environ; external or attending
circumstances or conditions.

SURROYAL
Sur*roy"al, n. Etym: [Pref. sur- + royal.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of the terminal branches or divisions of the beam of the
antler of the stag or other large deer.

SURSANURE
Sur"sa*nure, n. Etym: [(Assumed) OF. sursaneure. See Sur-, and Sane.]

Defn: A wound healed or healing outwardly only. [Obs.]
Of a sursanure In surgery is perilous the cure. Chaucer.

SURSEANCE
Sur"se*ance, n. Etym: [OF., fr. OF. & F. surseoir. See Surcease.]

Defn: Peace; quiet. [Obs.] Bacon.

SURSOLID
Sur*sol"id, n. Etym: [F. sursolide. See Sur-, and Solid.] (Math.)

Defn: The fifth power of a number; as, a is the sursolid of a, or 32
that of 2. [R.] Hutton.

SURSTYLE
Sur*style", v. t.

Defn: To surname. [R.]

SURSUM CORDA
Sur"sum cor"da. [L. sursum upward + corda hearts.] (Eccl.)

Defn: In the Eucharist, the versicles immediately before the preface,
inviting the people to join in the service by "lifting up the heart"
to God.

SURTAX
Sur"tax, n.

Defn: An additional or extra tax.

SURTAX
Sur*tax", v. t.

Defn: To impose an additional tax on.

SURTOUT
Sur*tout", n. Etym: [F., fr. sur over + tout all.]

Defn: A man's coat to be worn over his other garments; an overcoat,
especially when long, and fitting closely like a body coat. Gay.

SURTURBRAND
Sur"tur*brand, n. Etym: [Icel. surtarbrandr; svartr black + brandr a
firebrand.]

Defn: A fibrous brown coal or bituminous wood.

SURUCUCU
Su`ru*cu"cu, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Bush master, under Bush.

SURVEILLANCE
Sur*veil"lance, n. Etym: [F., fr. surveiller to watch over; sur over
+ veiller to watch, L. vigilare. See Sur-, and Vigil.]

Defn: Oversight; watch; inspection; supervision.
That sort of surveillance of which . . . the young have accused the
old. Sir W. Scott.

SURVEILLANT
Sur*veil"lant, n.; pl. Surveillants. Etym: [F., fr. surveiller to
watch over. See Surveillance.]

Defn: One who watches over another; an overseer; a spy; a supervisor.

SURVEILLANT
Sur*veil"lant, a.

Defn: Overseeing; watchful.

SURVENE
Sur*vene", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Survened; p. pr. & vb. n. Survening.]
Etym: [F. survenir. See Supervene.]

Defn: To supervene upon; to come as an addition to. [Obs.]
A suppuration that survenes lethargies. Harvey.

SURVENUE
Sur"ve*nue, n. Etym: [OF. See Survene.]

Defn: A sudden or unexpected coming or stepping on. [Obs.]

SURVEY
Sur*vey", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Surveyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Surveying.]
Etym: [OF. surveoir, surveer; sur, sor, over, E. sur + veoir, veeir,
to see, F. voir, L. videre. See Sur-, and Vision, and cf. Supervise.]

1. To inspect, or take a view of; to view with attention, as from a
high place; to overlook; as, to stand on a hill, and survey the
surrounding country.
Round he surveys and well might, where he stood, So high above.
Milton.

2. To view with a scrutinizing eye; to examine.
With such altered looks, . . . All pale and speechless, he surveyed
me round. Dryden.

3. To examine with reference to condition, situation, value, etc.; to
examine and ascertain the state of; as, to survey a building in order
to determine its value and exposure to loss by fire.

4. To determine the form, extent, position, etc., of, as a tract of
land, a coast, harbor, or the like, by means of linear and angular
measurments, and the application of the principles of geometry and
trigonometry; as, to survey land or a coast.

5. To examine and ascertain, as the boundaries and royalties of a
manor, the tenure of the tenants, and the rent and value of the same.
[Eng.] Jacob (Law Dict.).

SURVEY
Sur"vey, n. Etym: [Formerly accentuated universally on the last
syllable, and still so accented by many speakers.]

1. The act of surveying; a general view, as from above.
Under his proud survey the city lies. Sir J. Denham.

2. A particular view; an examination, especially an official
examination, of all the parts or particulars of a thing, with a
design to ascertain the condition, quantity, or quality; as, a survey
of the stores of a ship; a survey of roads and bridges; a survey of
buildings.

3. The operation of finding the contour, dimensions, position, or
other particulars of, as any part of the earth's surface, whether
land or water; also, a measured plan and description of any portion
of country, or of a road or line through it. Survey of dogs. See
Court of regard, under Regard.
 -- Trigonometrical survey, a survey of a portion of country by
measuring a single base, and connecting it with various points in the
tract surveyed by a series of triangles, the angles of which are
carefully measured, the relative positions and distances of all parts
being computed from these data.

Syn.
 -- Review; retrospect; examination; prospect.

SURVEYAL
Sur*vey"al, n.

Defn: Survey. [R.] Barrow.

SURVEYANCE
Sur*vey"ance, n.

Defn: Survey; inspection. [R.]

SURVEYING
Sur*vey"ing, n.

Defn: That branch of applied mathematics which teaches the art of
determining the area of any portion of the earth's surface, the
length and directions of the bounding lines, the contour of the
surface, etc., with an accurate delineation of the whole on paper;
the act or occupation of making surveys. Geodetic surveying, geodesy.
 -- Maritime, or Nautical, surveying, that branch of surveying which
determines the forms of coasts and harbors, the entrances of rivers,
with the position of islands, rocks, and shoals, the depth of water,
etc.
 -- Plane surveying. See under Plane, a.
 -- Topographical surveying, that branch of surveying which involves
the process of ascertaining and representing upon a plane surface the
contour, physical features, etc., of any portion of the surface of
the earth.

SURVEYOR
Sur*vey"or, n.

1. One placed to superintend others; an overseer; an inspector.
Were 't not madness then, To make the fox surveyor of the fold Shak.

2. One who views and examines for the purpose of ascertaining the
condition, quantity, or quality of anything; as, a surveyor of
highways, ordnance, etc.

3. One who surveys or measures land; one who practices the art of
surveying.

4. (Customs)
(a) An officer who ascertains the contents of casks, and the quantity
of liquors subject to duty; a gauger.
(b) In the United States, an officer whose duties include the various
measures to be taken for ascertaining the quantity, condition, and
value of merchandise brought into a port. Abbot. Surveyor general.
(a) A principal surveyor; as, the surveyor general of the king's
manors, or of woods and parks. [Eng.] (b) An officer having charge of
the survey of the public lands of a land district. [U.S.] Davies &
Peck (Math. Dict.).
 -- Surveyor's compass. See Circumferentor.
 -- Surveyor's level. See under Level.

SURVEYORSHIP
Sur*vey"or*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a surveyor.

SURVIEW
Sur*view", v. t. Etym: [Pref. sur- + view. Cf. Survey.]

Defn: To survey; to make a survey of. [Obs.] "To surview his ground."
Spenser.

SURVIEW
Sur*view", n.

Defn: A survey. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson.

SURVISE
Sur*vise", v. t. Etym: [See Supervise, and Survey.]

Defn: To look over; to supervise. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SURVIVAL
Sur*viv"al, n. Etym: [From Survive.]

1. A living or continuing longer than, or beyond the existence of,
another person, thing, or event; an outliving.

2. (Arh?ol. & Ethnol.)

Defn: Any habit, usage, or belief, remaining from ancient times, the
origin of which is often unknown, or imperfectly known.
The close bearing of the doctrine of survival on the study of manners
and customs. Tylor.
Survival of the fittest. (Biol.) See Natural selection, under
Natural.

SURVIVANCE; SURVIVANCY
Sur*viv"ance, Sur*viv"an*cy, n. Etym: [F. survivance.]

Defn: Survivorship. [R.]
His son had the survivance of the stadtholdership. Bp. Burnet.

SURVIVE
Sur*vive", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Survived; p. pr. & vb. n. Surviving.]
Etym: [F. survivre, L. supervivere; super over + vivere to live. See
Super-, and Victuals.]

Defn: To live beyond the life or existence of; to live longer than;
to outlive; to outlast; as, to survive a person or an event. Cowper.
I'll assure her of Her widowhood, be it that she survive me, In all
my lands and leases whatsoever. Shak.

SURVIVE
Sur*vive", v. i.

Defn: To remain alive; to continue to live.
Thy pleasure, Which, when no other enemy survives, Still conquers all
the conquerors. Sir J. Denham.
Alike are life and death, When life in death survives. Longfellow.

SURVIVENCY
Sur*viv"en*cy, n.

Defn: Survivorship. [R.]

SURVIVER
Sur*viv"er, n.

Defn: One who survives; a survivor.

SURVIVING
Sur*viv"ing, a.

Defn: Remaining alive; yet living or existing; as, surviving friends;
surviving customs.

SURVIVOR
Sur*viv"or, n.

1. One who survives or outlives another person, or any time, event,
or thing.
The survivor bound In filial obligation for some term To do
obsequious sorrow. Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: The longer liver of two joint tenants, or two persons having a
joint interest in anything. Blackstone.

SURVIVORSHIP
Sur*viv"or*ship, n.

1. The state of being a survivor.

1. (Law)

Defn: The right of a joint tenant, or other person who has a joint
interest in an estate, to take the whole estate upon the death of
other. Blackstone. Chance of survivorship, the chance that a person
of a given age has of surviving another of a giving age; thus, by the
Carlisle tables of mortality the chances of survivorship for two
persons, aged 25 and 65, are 89 and 11 respectively, or about 8 to 1
that the elder die first.

SUSCEPTIBILITY
Sus*cep`ti*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Susceptibilities. Etym: [Cf. F.
susceptibilite.]

1. The state or quality of being susceptible; the capability of
receiving impressions, or of being affected.

2. Specifically, capacity for deep feeling or emotional excitement;
sensibility, in its broadest acceptation; impressibility;
sensitiveness. Magnetic susceptibility (Physics), the intensity of
magnetization of a body placed in a uniform megnetic field of unit
strength. Sir W. Thomson.

Syn.
 -- Capability; sensibility; feeling; emotion.

SUSCEPTIBLE
Sus*cep"ti*ble, a. Etym: [F., from L. suscipere, susceptum, to take
up, to support, undertake, recognize, admit; pref. sus (see Sub-) +
capere to take. See Capable.]

1. Capable of admitting anything additional, or any change,
affection, or influence; readily acted upon; as, a body susceptible
of color or of alteration.
It sheds on souls susceptible of light, The glorious dawn of our
eternal day. Young.

2. Capable of impression; having nice sensibility; impressible;
tender; sensitive; as, children are more susceptible than adults; a
man of a susceptible heart.
Candidates are . . . not very susceptible of affronts. Cowper.
I am constitutionally susceptible of noises. Lamb.
-- Sus*cep"ti*ble*ness, n.
 -- Sus*cep"ti*bly, adv.

SUSCEPTION
Sus*cep"tion, n. Etym: [L. susceptio: cf. F. susception. See
Susceptible.]

Defn: The act of taking; reception.

SUSCEPTIVE
Sus*cep"tive, a.

Defn: Susceptible. I. Watts.
 -- Sus*cep"tive*ness, n.

SUSCEPTIVITY
Sus`cep*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capacity for receiving; susceptibility. [R.] Wollaston.

SUSCEPTOR
Sus*cep"tor, n. Etym: [L. See Susceptible.]

Defn: One who undertakes anything; specifically, a godfather; a
sponsor; a guardian. Puller. Shipley.

SUSCIPIENCY
Sus*cip"i*en*cy, n.

Defn: Admission. [R.]

SUSCIPIENT
Sus*cip"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. suscipiens, p.pr. of suscipere. See
Susceptible.]

Defn: Receiving; admitting. [R.]

SUSCIPIENT
Sus*cip"i*ent, n.

Defn: One who takes or admits; one who receives. [R.] Jer. Taylor.

SUSCITABILITY
Sus`ci*ta*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Capability of being suscitated; excitability. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SUSCITATE
Sus"ci*tate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suscitated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suscitating.] Etym: [L. suscitatus, p.p. of suscitare to lift up, to
rouse; pref. sus- (see Sub-) + citare to rouse, excite. Cf. Excite,
Incite.]

Defn: To rouse; to excite; to call into life and action. [Obs.]

SUSCITATION
Sus`ci*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. suscitatio: cf. F. suscitation.]

Defn: The act of raising or exciting. [R.]
A mere suscitation or production of a thing. South.

SUSLIK
Sus"lik, n. Etym: [Russ. suslik'.] (Zool.)

Defn: A ground squirrel (Spermophilus citillus) of Europe and Asia.
It has large cheek pouches. [Written also souslik.]

SUSPECT
Sus*pect", a. Etym: [L. suspectus, p.p. of suspicere to look up,
admire, esteem, to look at secretly or askance, to mistrust; sub
under + specere to look: cf. F. suspect suspected, suspicious. See
Spy, and cf. Suspicion.]

1. Suspicious; inspiring distrust. [Obs.]
Suspect [was] his face, suspect his word also. Chaucer.

2. Suspected; distrusted. [Obs.]
What I can do or offer is suspect. Milton.

SUSPECT
Sus*pect", n. Etym: [LL. suspectus. See Suspect, a.]

1. Suspicion. [Obs.] Chaucer.
So with suspect, with fear and grief, dismayed. Fairfax.

2. One who, or that which, is suspected; an object of suspicion; --
formerly applied to persons and things; now, only to persons
suspected of crime. Bacon.

SUSPECT
Sus*pect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suspected; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suspecting.]

1. To imagine to exist; to have a slight or vague opinion of the
existence of, without proof, and often upon weak evidence or no
evidence; to mistrust; to surmise; -- commonly used regarding
something unfavorable, hurtful, or wrong; as, to suspect the presence
of disease.
Nothing makes a man suspect much, more than to know little; and
therefore men should remedy suspicion by producing to know more.
Bacon.
From her hand I could suspect no ill. Milton.

2. To imagine to be guilty, upon slight evidence, or without proof;
as, to suspect one of equivocation.

3. To hold to be uncertain; to doubt; to mistrust; to distruct; as,
to suspect the truth of a story. Addison.

4. To look up to; to respect. [Obs.]

Syn.
 -- To mistrust; distrust; surmise; doubt.

SUSPECT
Sus*pect", v. i.

Defn: To imagine guilt; to have a suspicion or suspicions; to be
suspicious.
If I suspect without cause, why then make sport at time. Shak.

SUSPECTABLE
Sus*pect"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be suspected.

SUSPECTED
Sus*pect"ed, a.

Defn: Distrusted; doubted.
 -- Sus*pect"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Sus*pect"ed*ness, n.

SUSPECTER
Sus*pect"er, n.

Defn: One who suspects.

SUSPECTFUL
Sus*pect"ful, a.

Defn: Apt to suspect or mistrust; full of suspicion; suspicious; as,
to be suspectful of the motives of others. Milton.
 -- Sus*pect"ful*ness, n.

SUSPECTION
Sus*pec"tion, n.

Defn: Suspicion. [Obs.]

SUSPECTIOUSNESS
Sus*pec"tious*ness, n.

Defn: Suspiciousness; cause for suspicion. [Obs. & R.] Ld. Berners.

SUSPECTLESS
Sus*pect"less, a.

1. Not suspecting; having no suspicion. [R.] Sir T. Herbert.

2. Not suspected; not mistrusted. [R.] Beau. & Fl.

SUSPEND
Sus*pend", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Suspended; p. pr. & vb. n.
Suspending.] Etym: [F. suspendre, or OF. souspendre (where the prefix
is L. subtus below, from sub under), L. suspendere, suspensum; pref.
sus- (see Sub-) + pendere to hang. See Pedant, and cf. Suspense, n.]

1. To attach to something above; to hang; as, to suspend a ball by a
thread; to suspend a needle by a loadstone.

2. To make to depend; as, God hath suspended the promise of eternal
life on the condition of obedience and holiness of life. [Archaic]
Tillotson.

3. To cause to cease for a time; to hinder from proceeding; to
interrupt; to delay; to stay.
Suspend your indignation against my brother. Shak.
The guard nor fights nor fies; their fate so near At once suspends
their courage and their fear. Denham.

4. To hold in an undetermined or undecided state; as, to suspend
one's judgment or opinion. Locke.

5. To debar, or cause to withdraw temporarily, from any privilege,
from the execution of an office, from the enjoyment of income, etc.;
as, to suspend a student from college; to suspend a member of a club.
Good men should not be suspended from the exercise of their ministry
and deprived of their livelihood for ceremonies which are on all
hands acknowledged indifferent. Bp. Sanderson.

6. To cause to cease for a time from operation or effect; as, to
suspend the habeas corpus act; to suspend the rules of a legislative
body.

7. (Chem.)

Defn: To support in a liquid, as an insoluble powder, by stirring, to
facilitate chemical action. To suspend payment (Com.), to cease
paying debts or obligations; to fail; -- said of a merchant, a bank,
etc.

Syn.
 -- To hang; interrupt; delay; intermit; stay; hinder; debar.

SUSPEND
Sus*pend", v. i.

Defn: To cease from operation or activity; esp., to stop payment, or
be unable to meet obligations or engagements (said of a commercial
firm or a bank).

SUSPENDER
Sus*pend"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, suspends; esp., one of a pair of straps
or braces worn over the shoulders, for holding up the trousers.

SUSPENSATION
Sus`pen*sa"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. suspensatio suspension from a
charge or benefice.]

Defn: The act of suspending, or the state of being suspended,
especially for a short time; temporary suspension.

SUSPENSE
Sus*pense", a. Etym: [F. suspens, L. suspensus, p.p. of suspendere.
See Suspend.]

1. Held or lifted up; held or prevented from proceeding. [Obs.]
[The great light of day] suspense in heaven. Milton.

2. Expressing, or proceeding from, suspense or doubt. [Obs.]
"Expectation held his look suspense." Milton.

SUSPENSE
Sus*pense", n. Etym: [From F. suspens, a. See Suspense, a.]

1. The state of being suspended; specifically, a state of uncertainty
and expectation, with anxiety or apprehension; indetermination;
indecision; as, the suspense of a person waiting for the verdict of a
jury.
Ten days the prophet in suspense remained. Denham.
Upon the ticklish balance of suspense. Cowper.

2. Cessation for a time; stop; pause.
A cool suspense from pleasure and from pain. Pope.

3. Etym: [Cf. F. suspense.] (Law)

Defn: A temporary cessation of one's right; suspension, as when the
rent or other profits of land cease by unity of possession of land
and rent. Suspense account (Bookkeeping), an account in which
receipts or disbursements are temporarily entered until their proper
position in the books is determined.

SUSPENSELY
Sus*pense"ly, adv.

Defn: In suspense. [Obs.] Hales.

SUSPENSIBILITY
Sus*pen`si*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being suspensible.

SUSPENSIBLE
Sus*pen"si*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being suspended; capable of being held from sinking.

SUSPENSION
Sus*pen"sion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. suspension, L. suspensio arched work,
imperfect pronunciation. See Suspend.]

1. The act of suspending, or the state of being suspended; pendency;
as, suspension from a hook.

2. Especially, temporary delay, interruption, or cessation; as:
(a) Of labor, study, pain, etc.
(b) Of decision, determination, judgment, etc.; as, to ask a
suspension of judgment or opinion in view of evidence to be produced.
(c) Of the payment of what is due; as, the suspension of a mercantile
firm or of a bank.
(d) Of punishment, or sentence of punishment.
(e) Of a person in respect of the exercise of his office, powers,
prerogative, etc.; as, the suspension of a student or of a clergyman.
(f) Of the action or execution of law, etc.; as, the suspension of
the habeas corpus act.

3. A conditional withholding, interruption, or delay; as, the
suspension of a payment on the performance of a condition.

4. The state of a solid when its particles are mixed with, but
undissolved in, a fluid, and are capable of separation by straining;
also, any substance in this state.

5. (Rhet.)

Defn: A keeping of the hearer in doubt and in attentive expectation
of what is to follow, or of what is to be the inference or conclusion
from the arguments or observations employed.

6. (Scots Law)

Defn: A stay or postponement of execution of a sentence condemnatory
by means of letters of suspension granted on application to the lord
ordinary.

7. (Mus.)

Defn: The prolongation of one or more tones of a chord into the chord
which follows, thus producing a momentary discord, suspending the
concord which the ear expects. Cf. Retardation. Pleas in suspension
(Law), pleas which temporarily abate or suspend a suit.
 -- Points of suspension (Mech.), the points, as in the axis or beam
of a balance, at which the weights act, or from which they are
suspended.
 -- Suspension bridge, a bridge supported by chains, ropes, or wires,
which usually pass over high piers or columns at each end, and are
secured in the ground beyond.
 -- Suspension of arms (Mil.), a short truce or cessation of
operations agreed on by the commanders of contending armies, as for
burying the dead, making proposal for surrender or for peace, etc.
 -- Suspension scale, a scale in which the platform hangs suspended
from the weighing apparatus instead of resting upon it.

Syn.
 -- Delay; interruption; intermission; stop.

SUSPENSIVE
Sus*pen"sive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. suspensif. See Suspend.]

Defn: Tending to suspend, or to keep in suspense; causing
interruption or delay; uncertain; doubtful. "In suspensive thoughts."
Beaumont. "A suspensive veto." Macaulay.
The provisional and suspensive attitude. J. Morley.
Suspensive condition (Scots Law), a condition precedent, or a
condition without the performance of which the contract can not be
completed.

SUSPENSOR
Sus*pen"sor, n. Etym: [NL.]

1. A suspensory.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The cord which suspends the embryo; and which is attached to
the radicle in the young state; the proembryo.

SUSPENSORIUM
Sus`pen*so"ri*um, n.; pl. Suspensoria. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: Anything which suspends or holds up a part: especially, the
mandibular suspensorium (a series of bones, or of cartilages
representing them) which connects the base of the lower jaw with the
skull in most vertebrates below mammals.

SUSPENSORY
Sus*pen"so*ry, a.

1. Suspended; hanging; depending.

2. Fitted or serving to suspend; suspending; as, a suspensory muscle.
Ray.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a suspensorium.

SUSPENSORY
Sus*pen"so*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. suspensoir, suspensoire.]

Defn: That which suspends, or holds up, as a truss; specifically
(Med.),

Defn: a bandage or bag for supporting the scrotum.

SUSPICABLE
Sus"pi*ca*ble, a. Etym: [L. suspacabilis, fr. suspicari to suspect,
akin to suspicere. See Suspect, v. t.]

Defn: Liable to suspicion; suspicious. [Obs.]
It is a very suspicable business. Dr. H. more.

SUSPICIENCY
Sus*pi"cien*cy, n. Etym: [From L. suspiciens, p.pr. of suspicere. See
Suspect, v. t.]

Defn: Suspiciousness; suspicion. [Obs.] Hopkins.

SUSPICION
Sus*pi"cion, n. Etym: [OE. suspecioun, OF. souspecon, F. soupcon, L.
suspectio a looking up to, an esteeming highly, suspicion, fr.
suspicere to look up, to esteem, to mistrust. The modern form
suspicion in English and French is in imitation of L. suspicio
mistrust, suspicion. See Suspect, and cf. Suspicious.]

1. The act of suspecting; the imagination or apprehension of the
existence of something (esp. something wrong or hurtful) without
proof, or upon very slight evidence, or upon no evidence.
Suspicions among thoughts are like bats among birds, they ever fly by
twilight. Bacon.

2. Slight degree; suggestion; hint. [Colloq.]
The features are mild but expressive, with just a suspicion . . . of
saturnine or sarcastic humor. A. W. Ward.

Syn.
 -- Jealousy; distrust; mistrust; diffidence; doubt.

SUSPICION
Sus*pi"cion, v. t.

Defn: To view with suspicion; to suspect; to doubt. [Obs. or Low]
South.

SUSPICIOUS
Sus*pi"cious, a. Etym: [OE. suspecious; cf. L. suspiciosus. See
Suspicion.]

1. Inclined to suspect; given or prone to suspicion; apt to imagine
without proof.
Nature itself, after it has done an injury, will ever be suspicious;
and no man can love the person he suspects. South.
Many mischievous insects are daily at work to make men of merit
suspicious of each other. Pope.

2. Indicating suspicion, mistrust, or fear.
We have a suspicious, fearful, constrained countenance. Swift.

3. Liable to suspicion; adapted to raise suspicion; giving reason to
imagine ill; questionable; as, an author of suspicious innovations;
suspicious circumstances.
I spy a black, suspicious, threatening could. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Jealous; distrustful; mistrustful; doubtful; questionable. See
Jealous.
 -- Sus*pi"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Sus*pi"cious*ness, n.

SUSPIRAL
Sus*pir"al, n. Etym: [From Suspire.]

1. A breathing hole; a vent or ventiduct.

2. A spring of water passing under ground toward a cistern or
conduit.

SUSPIRATION
Sus`pi*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. suspiratio. See Suspire.]

Defn: The act of sighing, or fetching a long and deep breath; a deep
respiration; a sigh.
Windy suspiration of forced breath. Shak.

SUSPIRE
Sus*pire", v. i. Etym: [L. suspirare to breathe out, to sigh; sub
under + spirare to breathe: cf. F. souspirer, OF. souspirer.]

Defn: To fetch a long, deep breath; to sigh; to breathe. Shak.
Fireflies that suspire In short, soft lapses of transported flame.
Mrs. Browning.

SUSPIRE
Sus*pire", n. Etym: [Cf. L. suspirium.]

Defn: A long, deep breath; a sigh. [Obs.]

SUSPIRED
Sus*pired", a.

Defn: Ardently desired or longed for; earnestly coveted. [Obs.] Sir
H. Wotton.

SUSTAIN
Sus*tain", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sustained; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sustaining.] Etym: [OE. sustenen, susteinen, OF. sustenir, sostenir,
F. soutenir (the French prefix is properly fr. L. subtus below, fr.
sub under), L. sustinere; pref. sus- (see Sub-) + tenere to hold. See
Tenable, and cf. Sustenance.]

1. To keep from falling; to bear; to uphold; to support; as, a
foundation sustains the superstructure; a beast sustains a load; a
rope sustains a weight.
Every pillar the temple to sustain. Chaucer.

2. Hence, to keep from sinking, as in despondence, or the like; to
support.
No comfortable expectations of another life to sustain him under the
evils in this world. Tillotson.

3. To maintain; to keep alive; to support; to subsist; to nourish;
as, provisions to sustain an army.

4. To aid, comfort, or relieve; to vindicate. Shak.
His sons, who seek the tyrant to sustain. Dryden.

5. To endure without failing or yielding; to bear up under; as, to
sustain defeat and disappointment.

6. To suffer; to bear; to undergo.
Shall Turnus, then, such endless toil sustain Dryden.
You shall sustain more new disgraces. Shak.

7. To allow the prosecution of; to admit as valid; to sanction; to
continue; not to dismiss or abate; as, the court sustained the action
or suit.

8. To prove; to establish by evidence; to corroborate or confirm; to
be conclusive of; as, to sustain a charge, an accusation, or a
proposition.

Syn.
 -- To support; uphold; subsist; assist; relieve; suffer; undergo.

SUSTAIN
Sus*tain", n.

Defn: One who, or that which, upholds or sustains; a sustainer.
[Obs.]
I waked again, for my sustain was the Lord. Milton.

SUSTAINABLE
Sus*tain"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. soutenable, OF. soustenable.]

Defn: Capable of being sustained or maintained; as, the action is not
sustainable.

SUSTAINED
Sus*tained", a.

Defn: Held up to a certain pitch, degree, or level; uniform; as,
sustained pasion; a sustained style of writing; a sustained note in
music.

SUSTAINER
Sus*tain"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sustains. Waterland.

SUSTAINMENT
Sus*tain"ment, n.

Defn: The act of sustaining; maintenance; support. Milton. Lowell.

SUSTALTIC
Sus*tal"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Mournful; -- said of a species of music among the ancient
Greeks. Busby.

SUSTENANCE
Sus"te*nance, n. Etym: [OF. sustenance, sostenance, soustenance: cf.
L. sustenentia endurance. See Sustain.]

1. The act of sustaining; support; maintenance; subsistence; as, the
sustenance of the body; the sustenance of life.

2. That which supports life; food; victuals; provisions; means of
living; as, the city has ample sustenance. "A man of little
sustenance." Chaucer.
For lying is thy sustenance, thy food. Milton.

SUSTENTACLE
Sus*ten"ta*cle, n. Etym: [L. sustentaculum. See Sustentation.]

Defn: Sustenance. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

SUSTENTACULAR
Sus`ten*tac"u*lar, a. Etym: [See Sustenance.] (Anat.)

Defn: Supporting; sustaining; as, a sustentacular tissue.

SUSTENTATE
Sus"ten*tate, v. t.

Defn: To sustain. [R.] C. Reade.

SUSTENTATION
Sus`ten*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. sustentatio sustenance, maintenance,
fr. sustentare to support, maintain, v. intens. fr. sustinere to
sustain: cf. F. sustentation. See Sustain.]

1. The act of sustaining, or the state of being sustained;
preservation from falling; support; sustenance; maintenance.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The aggregate of the functions by which a living organism is
maintained in a normal condition of weight and growth. Sustentation
fund (Eccl.), a fund of a religious body for support of its
ministers, chapels, etc.; as, the sustentation fund of the Free
Church of Scotland.

SUSTENTATIVE
Sus"ten*ta*tive, a.

Defn: Adapted to sustain, strengthen, or corroborate; as,
sustentative citations or quotations. Sustentative functions
(Physiol.), those functions of the body which affect its material
composition and thus determine its mass.

SUSTENTION
Sus*ten"tion, n.

Defn: Sustentation. [R. or Colloq.]
In fine images, in sustention, in irony, they surpass anything that
Burke ever wrote. J. Morley.

SUSTER; SUSTRE
Sus"ter, Sus"tre, n.; pl. Susters (, Sustres, or Sustren (.

Defn: Sister. [Obs.] Chaucer.
There are seven sustren, that serve truth ever. Piers Plowman.

SUSU
Su"su, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Soosoo.

SUSURRANT
Su*sur"rant, a. Etym: [L. susurrans, p.pr. from susurrare to
whisper.]

Defn: Whispering. [R.] "The soft susurrant sigh." Poetry of Anti-
Jacobin.

SUSURRATION
Su`sur*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. susurratio, fr. susurrare to whisper:
cf. F. susurration.]

Defn: A whispering; a soft murmur. "Soft susurrations of the trees."
Howell.

SUSURRINGLY
Su*sur"ring*ly, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a whisper. [Obs.]

SUSURROUS
Su*sur"rous, a. Etym: [L. susurrus.]

Defn: Whispering; rustling; full of whispering sounds. [R.]

SUSURRUS
Su*sur"rus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The act of whispering; a whisper; a murmur. De Quincey.
The soft susurrus and sighs of the branches. Longfellow.

SUTILE
Su"tile, a. Etym: [L. sutilis, fr. suere to sew: cf. F. sutile.]

Defn: Done by stitching. [R.] Boswell.

SUTLER
Sut"ler, n. Etym: [D. zoetelaar, OD. soetelaar, a small trader,
especially in camps, fr. soetelen to undertake low offices; cf. G.
sudeln to do dirty work, to sully, soil, E. suds.]

Defn: A person who follows an army, and sells to the troops
provisions, liquors, and the like.

SUTLERSHIP
Sut"ler*ship, n.

Defn: The condition or occupation of a sutler.

SUTLING
Sut"ling, a.

Defn: Belonging to sutlers; engaged in the occupation of a sutler.
Addison.

SUTOR
Su"tor, n.

Defn: A kind of sirup made by the Indians of Arizona from the fruit
of some cactaceous plant (probably the Cereus giganteus).

SUTRA
Su"tra, n.; pl. Sutras. Etym: [Skr. s a thread, a string of rules; an
aphorism; fr. siv to sew.]

1.
(a) A precept; an aphorism; a brief rule.
(b) A collection of such aphorisms.

2. pl.

Defn: A body of Hindoo literature containing aphorisms on grammar,
meter, law, and philosophy, and forming a connecting link between the
Vedic and later Sanscrit literature. Balfour (Cyc. of India).

SUTTEE
Sut*tee", n. Etym: [Skr. sati a faithful wife, fem. of sant existing,
real, true, good, p.pr. of as to be. Cf. Sooth.]

1. A Hindoo widow who immolates herself, or is immolated, on the
funeral pile of her husband; -- so called because this act of self-
immolation is regarded as envincing excellence of wifely character.
[India]

2. The act of burning a widow on the funeral pile of her husband.
[India]

Note: The practice, though abolished in British India law in 1829, is
not wholly prevented.

SUTTEEISM
Sut*tee"ism, n.

Defn: The practice of self-immolation of widows in Hindostan.

SUTTLE
Sut"tle, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Com.)

Defn: The weight when the tare has been deducted, and tret is yet to
be allowed. M

SUTTLE
Sut"tle, v. i. Etym: [See Sutler.]

Defn: To act as sutler; to supply provisions and other articles to
troops.

SUTURAL
Su"tur*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sutural, NL. suturals.]

1. Of or pertaining to a suture, or seam.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Taking place at a suture; as, a sutural de.

SUTURALLY
Su"tur*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sutural manner.

SUTURATED
Su"tur*a`ted, a.

Defn: Sewed or knit together; united by a suture; stitched.

SUTURE
Su"ture, n. Etym: [L. sutura, fr. suere, sutum, to sew or stitch: cf.
F. suture. See Sew to unite with thread.]

1. The act of sewing; also, the line along which two things or parts
are sewed together, or are united so as to form a seam, or that which
resembles a seam.

2. (Surg.)
(a) The uniting of the parts of a wound by stitching.
(b) The stitch by which the parts are united.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: The line of union, or seam, in an immovable articulation, like
those between the bones of the skull; also, such an articulation
itself; synarthrosis. See Harmonic suture, under Harmonic.

4. (Bot.)
(a) The line, or seam, formed by the union of two margins in any part
of a plant; as, the ventral suture of a legume.
(b) A line resembling a seam; as, the dorsal suture of a legume,
which really corresponds to a midrib.

5. (Zool.)
(a) The line at which the elytra of a beetle meet and are sometimes
confluent.
(b) A seam, or impressed line, as between the segments of a
crustacean, or between the whorls of a univalve shell. Glover's
suture, Harmonic suture, etc. See under Glover, Harmonic, etc.

SUTURED
Su"tured, a.

Defn: Having a suture or sutures; knit or united together. Pennant.

SUWARROW
Su*war"row, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The giant cactus (Cereus giganteus); -- so named by the Indians
of Arizona. Called also saguaro.

SUZERAIN
Su"ze*rain, n. Etym: [F., formed fr. sus above, L. susum, sursum (fr.
sub under + versum, p.p. of vertere to turn), after the analogy of
souverain, E. sovereign. See Sub-, and Verse.]

Defn: A superior lord, to whom fealty is due; a feudal lord; a lord
paramount.

SUZERAINTY
Su"ze*rain*ty, n. Etym: [F. suzerainete.]

Defn: The dominion or authority of a suzerain; paramount authority.

SWA
Swa (swa), adv. Etym: [See So.]

Defn: So. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWAB
Swab, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swabbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Swabbing.] Etym:
[See Swabber, n.]

Defn: To clean with a mop or swab; to wipe when very wet, as after
washing; as, to swab the desk of a ship. [Spelt also swob.]

SWAB
Swab, n. Etym: [Written also swob.]

1. A kind of mop for cleaning floors, the desks of vessels, etc.,
esp. one made of rope-yarns or threads.

2. A bit of sponge, cloth, or the like, fastened to a handle, for
cleansing the mouth of a sick person, applying medicaments to deep-
seated parts, etc.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: An epaulet. [Sailor's Slang] Marryat.

4. A cod, or pod, as of beans or pease. [Obs.] Bailey.

5. A sponge, or other suitable substance, attached to a long rod or
handle, for cleaning the bore of a firearm.

SWABBER
Swab"ber, v. t.

Defn: To swab. [R.]

SWABBER
Swab"ber, n. Etym: [D. zwabber; cf.D. zwabberen to swab, G.
schwabbern, Dan. svabre, Sw. svab a swab, svabla to swab.]

1. One who swabs a floor or desk. Shak.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Formerly, an interior officer on board of British ships of war,
whose business it was to see that the ship was kept clean.

3. Same as Swobber, 2.

SWAD
Swad, n. Etym: [Probably fr. AS. swe to bind.] [Written also swod.]

1. A cod, or pod, as of beans or pease. [Prov. Eng.]
Swad, in the north, is a peascod shell -- thence used for an empty,
shallow-headed fellow. Blount.

2. A clown; a country bumpkin. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] "Country swains,
and silly swads." Greene.
There was one busy fellow was their leader, A blunt, squat swad, but
lower than yourself. B. Jonson.

3. A lump of mass; also, a crowd. [Low, U.S.]

4. (Coal Mining)

Defn: A thin layer of refuse at the bottom of a seam. Raymond.

SWADDLE
Swad"dle, n. Etym: [AS. swe, swe, fr. swe to bind. See Swathe.]

Defn: Anything used to swaddle with, as a cloth or band; a swaddling
band.
They put me in bed in all my swaddles. Addison.

SWADDLE
Swad"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swaddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Swaddling.]

1. To bind as with a bandage; to bind or warp tightly with clothes;
to swathe; -- used esp. of infants; as, to swaddle a baby.
They swaddled me up in my nightgown with long pieces of linen.
Addison.

2. To beat; to cudgel. [Obs.] Hudibras.

SWADDLEBILL
Swad"dle*bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The shoveler. [Local, U.S.]

SWADDLER
Swad"dler, n.

Defn: A term of contempt for an Irish Methodist. Shipley.

SWADDLING
Swad"dling, a. & n.

Defn: from Swaddle, v. Swaddling band, Swaddling cloth, or Swaddling
clout, a band or cloth wrapped round an infant, especially round a
newborn infant.
Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a
manger. Luke ii. 12.

SWAG
Swag, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Swagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Swagging.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. sveggja, sveigja to bend, to sway, Norw. svaga to sway.
See Sway.]

1. To hang or move, as something loose and heavy; to sway; to swing.
[Prov. Eng.]

2. To sink down by its weight; to sag. Sir H. Wotton.
I swag as a fat person's belly swaggeth as he goeth. Palsgrave.

SWAG
Swag, n.

1. A swaying, irregular motion.

2. A burglar's or thief's booty; boodle. [Cant or Slang] Charles
Reade.

SWAG-BELLIED
Swag"-bel`lied, a.

Defn: Having a prominent, overhanging belly. Shak.

SWAGBELLY
Swag"bel`ly, n.

1. A prominent, overhanging belly. Smollett.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Any large tumor developed in the abdomen, and neither
fluctuating nor sonorous. Dunglison.

SWAGE
Swage, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Swaged; p. pr. & vb. n. Swaging.]
Etym: [Equiv. to suage, abbrev. fr. assuage.]

Defn: See Assuage. [Obs.]

SWAGE
Swage, n.

Defn: A tool, variously shaped or grooved on the end or face, used by
blacksmiths and other workers in metals, for shaping their work,
whether sheet metal or forging, by holding the swage upon the work,
or the work upon the swage, and striking with a sledge. Swage block,
a perforated block of iron, having grooved sides and adapted for use
in heading bolts and swaging objects of large size.

SWAGE
Swage, v. t.

Defn: To shape by means of a swage; to fashion, as a piece of iron,
by forcing it into a groove or mold having the required shape.

SWAGGER
Swag"ger, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Swaggered; p. pr. & vb. n. Swaggering.]
Etym: [Freq. of swag.]

1. To walk with a swaying motion; hence, to walk and act in a
pompous, consequential manner.
A man who swaggers about London clubs. Beaconsfield.

2. To boast or brag noisily; to be ostentatiously proud or
vainglorious; to bluster; to bully.
What a pleasant it is . . . to swagger at the bar! Arbuthnot.
To be great is not . . . to swagger at our footmen. Colier.

SWAGGER
Swag"ger, v. t.

Defn: To bully. [R.] Swift.

SWAGGER
Swag"ger, n.

Defn: The act or manner of a swaggerer.
He gave a half swagger, half leer, as he stepped forth to receive us.
W. Irving.

SWAGGERER
Swag"ger*er, n.

Defn: One who swaggers; a blusterer; a bully; a boastful, noisy
fellow. Shak.

SWAGGIE
Swag"gie, n.

Defn: A swagman. [Australia]

SWAGGY
Swag"gy, a.

Defn: Inclined to swag; sinking, hanging, or leaning by its weight.
Sir T. Browne.

SWAGMAN
Swag"man, n.

Defn: A bushman carrying a swag and traveling on foot; -- called also
swagsman, swagger, and swaggie.

SWAGSMAN
Swags"man, n.

Defn: A swagman. [Australia]

SWAIN
Swain, n. Etym: [OE. swain, swein, Icel. sveinn a boy, servant; akin
to Sw. sven, Dan. svend, AS. swan, OHG. swein.]

1. A servant. [Obs.]
Him behoves serve himself that has no swain. Chaucer.

2. A young man dwelling in the country; a rustic; esp., a cuntry
gallant or lover; -- chiefly in poetry.
It were a happy life To be no better than a homely swain. Shak.
Blest swains! whose nymphs in every grace excel. Pope.

SWAINISH
Swain"ish, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a swain; rustic; ignorant. "An
ungentle and swainish beast." Milton.
 -- Swain"ish*ness, n. Emerson.

SWAINLING
Swain"ling, n.

Defn: A little swain. [R.]

SWAINMOTE
Swain"mote`, n. Etym: [Swain + mote meeting: cf. LL. swanimotum.]
(Eng. Forest Law)

Defn: A court held before the verders of the forest as judges, by the
steward of the court, thrice every year, the swains, or freeholders,
within the forest composing the jury. [Written also swanimote, and
sweinmote.] Blackstone.

SWAINSHIP
Swain"ship, n.

Defn: The condition of a swain.

SWAIP
Swaip, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Sweep.]

Defn: To walk proudly; to sweep along. [Prov. Eng.] Todd.

SWAL
Swal, obs. imp. of Swell.

Defn: Swelled. Chaucer.

SWALE
Swale, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. svalr cool, svala to cool.]

Defn: A valley or low place; a tract of low, and usually wet, land; a
moor; a fen. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.]

SWALE
Swale, v. i. & t.

Defn: To melt and waste away; to singe. See Sweal, v.

SWALE
Swale, n.

Defn: A gutter in a candle. [Prov. Eng.]

SWALLET
Swal"let, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schwall a sea swell, from schwellen to
swell, E. swell.]

Defn: Water breaking in upon the miners at their work; -- so called
among tin miners. [Prov. Eng.]

SWALLOW
Swal"low, n. Etym: [OE. swalowe, AS. swalewe, swealwe; akin to D.
zwaluw, OHG. swalawa, G. schwalbe, Icel. & Sw. svala, Dan. svale.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of passerine birds of the family
Hirundinid?, especially one of those species in which the tail is
deeply forked. They have long, pointed wings, and are noted for the
swiftness and gracefulness of their flight.

Note: The most common North American species are the barn swallow
(see under Barn), the cliff, or eaves, swallow (see under Cliff), the
white-bellied, or tree, swallow (Tachycineta bicolor), and the bank
swallow (see under Bank). The common European swallow (Chelidon
rustica), and the window swallow, or martin (Chelidon urbica), are
familiar species.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of swifts which resemble the true
swallows in form and habits, as the common American chimney swallow,
or swift.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The aperture in a block through which the rope reeves. Ham.
Nav. Encyc. Swallow plover (Zool.), any one of several species of
fork-tailed ploverlike birds of the genus Glareola, as G. orientalis
of India; a pratincole.
 -- Swallow shrike (Zool.), any one of several species of East Indian
and Asiatic birds of the family Artamiid?, allied to the shrikes but
similar to swallows in appearance and habits. The ashy swallow shrike
(Artamus fuscus) is common in India.
 -- Swallow warbler (Zool.), any one of numerous species of East
Indian and Australian singing birds of the genus Dic?um. They are
allied to the honeysuckers.

SWALLOW
Swal"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swallowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Swallowing.]
Etym: [OE. swolewen, swolwen, swolhen, AS. swelgan; akin to D.
zwelgen, OHG. swelahan, swelgan, G. schwelgen to feast, to revel,
Icel. svelgia to swallow, SW. svalja, Dan. sv?lge. Cf. Groundsel a
plant.]

1. To take into the stomach; to receive through the gullet, or
esophagus, into the stomach; as, to swallow food or drink.
As if I had swallowed snowballs for pills. Shak.

2. To draw into an abyss or gulf; to ingulf; to absorb -- usually
followed by up. Milton.
The earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses.
Num. xvi. 32.

3. To receive or embrace, as opinions or belief, without examination
or scruple; to receive implicitly.
Though that story . . . be not so readily swallowed. Sir T. Browne.

4. To engross; to appropriate; -- usually with up.
Homer excels . . . in this, that he swallowed up the honor of those
who succeeded him. Pope.

5. To occupy; to take up; to employ.
The necessary provision of the life swallows the greatest part of
their time. Locke.

6. To seize and waste; to exhaust; to consume.
Corruption swallowed what the liberal hand Of bounty scattered.
Thomson.

7. To retract; to recant; as, to swallow one's opinions. "Swallowed
his vows whole." Shak.

8. To put up with; to bear patiently or without retaliation; as, to
swallow an affront or insult.

Syn.
 -- To absorb; imbibe; ingulf; engross; consume. See Absorb.

SWALLOW
Swal"low, v. i.

Defn: To perform the act of swallowing; as, his cold is so severe he
is unable to swallow.

SWALLOW
Swal"low, n.

1. The act of swallowing.

2. The gullet, or esophagus; the throat.

3. Taste; relish; inclination; liking. [Colloq.]
I have no swallow for it. Massinger.

4. Capacity for swallowing; voracity.
There being nothing too gross for the swallow of political rancor.
Prof. Wilson.

5. As much as is, or can be, swallowed at once; as, a swallow of
water.

6. That which ingulfs; a whirlpool. [Obs.] Fabyan.

SWALLOWER
Swal"low*er, n.

Defn: One who swallows; also, a glutton. Tatler.

SWALLOWFISH
Swal"low*fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The European sapphirine gurnard (Trigla hirundo). It has large
pectoral fins.

SWALLOWTAIL
Swal"low*tail`, n.

1. (Carp.)

Defn: A kind of tenon or tongue used in making joints. See Dovetail.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of willow.

3. (Fort.)

Defn: An outwork with converging sides, its head or front forming a
reentrant angle; -- so called from its form. Called also priestcap.

4. A swallow-tailed coat.
This Stultz coat, a blue swallowtail, with yellow buttons. Thackeray.

5. An arrow. Sir W. Scott.

6. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large and handsome butterflies,
belonging to Papilio and allied genera, in which the posterior border
of each hind wing is prolongated in the form of a long lobe.

Note: The black swallowtail, or asterias (see Papilio), the blue
swallowtail, or philenor, the tiger swallowtail, or turnus (see
Turnus), and the zebra swallowtail, or ajax (see under Zebra) are
common American species. See also Troilus.

SWALLOW-TAILED
Swal"low-tailed`, a.

1. Having a tail like that of a swallow; hence, like a swallow's tail
in form; having narrow and tapering or pointed skirts; as, a swallow-
tailed coat.

2. (Carp.)

Defn: United by dovetailing; dovetailed. Swallow-tailed duck (Zool.),
the old squaw.
 -- Swallow-tailed gull (Zool.), an Arctic gull (Xema furcata), which
has a deeply forked tail.
 -- Swallow-tailed hawk or kite (Zool.), the fork-tailed kite.
 -- Swallow-tailed moth (Zool.), a European moth (Urapteryx
sambucaria) having tail-like lobes on the hind wings.

SWALLOWWORT
Swal"low*wort`, n. (Bot.)
(a) See Celandine.
(b) A poisonous plant (Vincetoxicum officinale) of the Milkweed
family, at one time used in medicine; -- also called white
swallowwort. African swallowwort, a plant of the genus Stapelia.

SWAM
Swam,

Defn: imp. of Swim.

SWAMP
Swamp, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. swam a fungus, OD. swam a sponge, D. zwam a
fungus, G. schwamm a sponge, Icel. svoppr, Dan. & Sw. swamp, Goth.
swamms, Gr. somfo`s porous, spongy.]

Defn: Wet, spongy land; soft, low ground saturated with water, but
not usually covered with it; marshy ground away from the seashore.
Gray swamps and pools, waste places of the hern. Tennyson.
A swamp differs from a bog and a marsh in producing trees and shrubs,
while the latter produce only herbage, plants, and mosses. Farming
Encyc. (E. Edwards, Words).
Swamp blackbird. (Zool.) See Redwing (b).
 -- Swamp cabbage (Bot.), skunk cabbage.
 -- Swamp deer (Zool.), an Asiatic deer (Rucervus Duvaucelli) of
India.
 -- Swamp hen. (Zool.) (a) An Australian azure-breasted bird
(Porphyrio bellus); -- called also goollema. (b) An Australian water
crake, or rail (Porzana Tabuensis); -- called also little swamp hen.
(c) The European purple gallinule.
 -- Swamp honeysuckle (Bot.), an American shrub (Azalea, or
Rhododendron, viscosa) growing in swampy places, with fragrant
flowers of a white color, or white tinged with rose; -- called also
swamp pink.
 -- Swamp hook, a hook and chain used by lumbermen in handling logs.
Cf. Cant hook.
 -- Swamp itch. (Med.) See Prairie itch, under Prairie.
 -- Swamp laurel (Bot.), a shrub (Kalmia glauca) having small leaves
with the lower surface glaucous.
 -- Swamp maple (Bot.), red maple. See Maple.
 -- Swamp oak (Bot.), a name given to several kinds of oak which grow
in swampy places, as swamp Spanish oak (Quercus palustris), swamp
white oak (Q. bicolor), swamp post oak (Q. lyrata).
 -- Swamp ore (Min.), big ore; limonite.
 -- Swamp partridge (Zool.), any one of several Australian game birds
of the genera Synoicus and Excalfatoria, allied to the European
partridges.
 -- Swamp robin (Zool.), the chewink.
 -- Swamp sassafras (Bot.), a small North American tree of the genus
Magnolia (M. glauca) with aromatic leaves and fragrant creamy-white
blossoms; -- called also sweet bay.
 -- Swamp sparrow (Zool.), a common North American sparrow (Melospiza
Georgiana, or M. palustris), closely resembling the song sparrow. It
lives in low, swampy places.
 -- Swamp willow. (Bot.) See Pussy willow, under Pussy.

SWAMP
Swamp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swamped; p. pr. & vb. n. Swamping.]

1. To plunge or sink into a swamp.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To cause (a boat) to become filled with water; to capsize or
sink by whelming with water.

3. Fig.: To plunge into difficulties and perils; to overwhelm; to
ruin; to wreck.
The Whig majority of the house of Lords was swamped by the creation
of twelve Tory peers. J. R. Green.
Having swamped himself in following the ignis fatuus of a theory. Sir
W. Hamilton.

SWAMP
Swamp, v. i.

1. To sink or stick in a swamp; figuratively, to become involved in
insuperable difficulties.

2. To become filled with water, as a boat; to founder; to capsize or
sink; figuratively, to be ruined; to be wrecked.

SWAMPY
Swamp"y, a.

Defn: Consisting of swamp; like a swamp; low, wet, and spongy; as,
swampy land.

SWAN
Swan, n. Etym: [AS. swan; akin to D. zwaan, OHG. swan, G. schwan,
Icel. svanr, Sw. svan, Dan. svane; and perhaps to E. sound something
audible.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large aquatic birds belonging to
Cygnus, Olor, and allied genera of the subfamily Cygnin?. They have a
large and strong beak and a long neck, and are noted for their
graceful movements when swimming. Most of the northern species are
white. In literature the swan was fabled to sing a melodious song,
especially at the time of its death.

Note: The European white, or mute, swan (Cygnus gibbus), which is
most commonly domesticated, bends its neck in an S-shaped curve. The
whistling, or trumpeting, swans of the genus Olor do not bend the
neck in an S-shaped curve, and are noted for their loud and sonorous
cry, due to complex convolutions of the windpipe. To this genus
belong the European whooper, or whistling swan (Olor cygnus), the
American whistling swan (O. Columbianus), and the trumpeter swan (O.
buccinator). The Australian black swan (Chenopis atrata) is dull
black with white on the wings, and has the bill carmine, crossed with
a white band. It is a very graceful species and is often
domesticated. The South American black-necked swan (Sthenelides
melancorypha) is a very beautiful and graceful species, entirely
white, except the head and neck, which are dark velvety seal-brown.
Its bill has a double bright rose-colored knob.

2. Fig.: An appellation for a sweet singer, or a poet noted for grace
and melody; as Shakespeare is called the swan of Avon.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: The constellation Cygnus. Swan goose (Zool.), a bird of India
(Cygnopsis cygnoides) resembling both the swan and the goose.
 -- Swan shot, a large size of shot used in fowling.

SWANG
Swang, obs.

Defn: imp. of Swing.

SWANG
Swang, n. Etym: [Cf. Swamp.]

Defn: A swamp. [Prov. Eng.]

SWANHERD
Swan"herd`, n.

Defn: One who tends or marks swans; as, the royal swanherd of
England.

SWAN-HOPPING
Swan"-hop`ping, n.

Defn: A corruption of Swan-upping. [Eng.] Encyc. Brit.

SWANIMOTE
Swan"i*mote, n. (Eng. Forest Law)

Defn: See Swainmote.

SWANKIE; SWANKY
Swank"ie, Swank"y, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schwank flexible, pliant.]

Defn: An active and clever young fellow. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

SWANLIKE
Swan"like`, a.

Defn: Resembling a swan.

SWANMARK
Swan"mark`, n.

Defn: A mark of ownership cut on the bill or swan. [Eng.] Encyc.
Brit.

SWANNERY
Swan"ner*y, n.

Defn: A place where swans are bred. "The largest swannery in
England." Encyc. Brit.

SWANNY
Swan"ny, a.

Defn: Swanlike; as, a swanny glossiness of the neck. Richardson.

SWANPAN
Swan"pan, n. Etym: [Cf. Schwanpan.]

Defn: The Chinese abacus; a schwanpan. S. W. Williams.

SWAN'S-DOWN; SWANS-DOWN
Swan's"-down`, or; Swans"-down`, n.

1. The down, or fine, soft feathers, of the swan, used on various
articles of dress.

2. A fine, soft, thick cloth of wool mixed with silk or cotton; a
sort of twilled fustian, like moleskin. Swan's-down cotton. See
Cotton flannel, under Cotton.

SWANSKIN
Swan"skin`, n.

1. The act of a swan with the down or the feathers on.

2. A species of soft flannel, thick and warm.

SWAN-UPPING
Swan"-up`ping, n.

Defn: A yearly expedition on the Thames to take up young swans and
mark them, as by Companies of Dyers and Vintners; -- called also
swan-hopping. [Eng.] Encyc. Brit.

SWAP
Swap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Swapping.] Etym:
[OE. swappen to strike; cf. E. to strike a bargain; perh. akin to E.
sweep. Cf. Swap a blow, Swap, v. i.] [Written also swop.]

1. To strike; -- with off. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] "Swap off his head!"
Chaucer.

2. To exchange (usually two things of the same kind); to swop.
[Colloq.] Miss Edgeworth.

SWAP
Swap, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Swap, v. t.]

1. To fall or descend; to rush hastily or violently. C. Richardson
(Dict.).
All suddenly she swapt adown to ground. Chaucer.

2. To beat the air, or ply the wings, with a sweeping motion or
noise; to flap.

SWAP
Swap, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schwapp, n., a slap, swap, schwapp, schwapps,
interj., slap! smack! and E. swap, v.t.]

1. A blow; a stroke. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

2. An exchange; a barter. [Colloq.] Sir W. Scott.

SWAP
Swap, adv. Etym: [See Swap, n.]

Defn: Hastily. [Prov. Eng.]

SWAPE
Swape, n.

Defn: See Sweep, n., 12.

SWARD
Sward, n. Etym: [AS. sweard skin, covering; akin to OFries. swarge,
D. zwoord, G. schwarte, Icel. svor skin, sward of the earth.]

1. Skin; covering. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. The grassy surface of land; that part of the soil which is filled
with the roots of grass; turf.
The sward was trim as any garden lawn. Tennyson.
Sward pork, bacon in large fitches. [Prov. Eng.]

SWARD
Sward, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Swarded; p. pr. & vb. n. Swarding.]

Defn: To produce sward upon; to cover, or be covered, with sward.
Mortimer.

SWARD-CUTTER
Sward"-cut`ter, n.
(a) A plow for turning up grass land.
(b) A lawn mower.

SWARDED
Sward"ed, a.

Defn: Covered with sward. Mrs. Browning.

SWARDY
Sward"y, a.

Defn: Covered with sward or grass.

SWARE
Sware,

Defn: imp. of Swear. [Obs. or Poetic]
Cophetua sware a royal oath. Tennyson.

SWARF
Swarf, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Swerve.]

Defn: To grow languid; to faint. [Scot.] "To swarf for very hunger."
Sir W. Scott.

SWARF
Swarf, n. Etym: [Cf. Swerve.]

Defn: The grit worn away from grindstones in grinding cutlery wet.
[Prov. Eng.]

SWARM
Swarm, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Swerve.]

Defn: To climb a tree, pole, or the like, by embracing it with the
arms and legs alternately. See Shin. [Colloq.]
At the top was placed a piece of money, as a prize for those who
could swarm up and seize it. W. Coxe.

SWARM
Swarm, n. Etym: [OE. swarm, AS. swearm; akin to D. zwerm, G. schwarm,
OHG. swaram, Icel. svarmr a tumult, Sw. svarm a swarm, Dan. sv?rm,
and G. schwirren to whiz, to buzz, Skr. svar to sound, and perhaps to
E. swear. *177. Cf. Swerve, Swirl.]

1. A large number or mass of small animals or insects, especially
when in motion. "A deadly swarm of hornets." Milton.

2. Especially, a great number of honeybees which emigrate from a hive
at once, and seek new lodgings under the direction of a queen; a like
body of bees settled permanently in a hive. "A swarm of bees."
Chaucer.

3. Hence, any great nimber or multitude, as of people in motion, or
sometimes of inanimate objects; as, a swarm of meteorites.
Those prodigious swarms that had settled themselves in every part of
it [Italy]. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Multitude; crowd; throng.

SWARM
Swarm, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Swarmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Swarming.]

1. To collect, and depart from a hive by flight in a body; -- said of
bees; as, bees swarm in warm, clear days in summer.

2. To appear or collect in a crowd; to throng together; to congregate
in a multitude. Chaucer.

3. To be crowded; to be thronged with a multitude of beings in
motion.
Every place swarms with soldiers. Spenser.

4. To abound; to be filled (with). Atterbury.

5. To breed multitudes.
Not so thick swarmed once the soil Bedropped with blood of Gorgon.
Milton.

SWARM
Swarm, v. t.

Defn: To crowd or throng. Fanshawe.

SWARMSPORE
Swarm"spore`, n.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: One of innumerable minute, motile, reproductive bodies,
produced asexually by certain alg? and fungi; a zoospore.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the minute flagellate germs produced by the sporulation
of a protozoan; -- called also zoospore.

SWART
Swart, n.

Defn: Sward. [Obs.] Holinshed.

SWART
Swart, a. Etym: [OE. swart, AS. sweart black; akin to OFries, OS. &
LG. swart, D. zwart, G. schwartz, OHG. swarz, Icel. svarir, Sw.
svart, Dan. sort, Goth. swarts; cf. L. sordes dirt, sordere to be
dirty. Cf. Sordid, Surd.]

1. Of a dark hue; moderately black; swarthy; tawny. "Swart
attendants." Trench. "Swart savage maids." Hawthorne.
A nation strange, with visage swart. Spenser.

2. Gloomy; malignant. [Obs.] Milton. Swart star, the Dog Star; -- so
called from its appearing during the hot weather of summer, which
makes swart the countenance. [R.] Milton.

SWART
Swart, v. t.

Defn: To make swart or tawny; as, to swart a living part. Sir T.
Browne.

SWARTBACK
Swart"back`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The black-backed gull (Larus marinus); -- called also swarbie.
[Prov. Eng.]

SWARTH
Swarth, a.

Defn: Swart; swarthy. "A swarth complexion." Chapman.

SWARTH
Swarth, n.

Defn: An apparition of a person about to die; a wraith. [Prov. Eng.]
Grose.

SWARTH
Swarth, n. Etym: [See Sward.]

Defn: Sward; short grass.
Grassy swarth, close cropped by nibbling sheep. Cowper.

SWARTH
Swarth, n.

Defn: See Swath.

SWARTHILY
Swarth"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a swarthy manner; with a tawny hue; duskily.

SWARTHINESS
Swarth"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being swarthy; a dusky or dark
complexion; tawniness.

SWARTHNESS
Swarth"*ness, n.

Defn: Swarthiness. [R.] Dr. R. Clerke.

SWARTHY
Swarth"y, a. [Compar. Swarthier; superl. Swarthiest.] Etym: [See
Swart, a.]

Defn: Being of a dark hue or dusky complexion; tawny; swart; as,
swarthy faces. "A swarthy Ethiope." Shak.
Their swarthy hosts would darken all our plains. Addison.

SWARTHY
Swarth"y, v. t.

Defn: To make swarthy. [Obs.] Cowley.

SWARTINESS
Swart"i*ness, n.

Defn: Swarthiness. [Obs.]

SWARTISH
Swart"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat swart, dark, or tawny.

SWARTNESS
Swart"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being swart.

SWARTY
Swart"y, a.

Defn: Swarthy; tawny. [Obs.] Burton.

SWARVE
Swarve, v. i. Etym: [See Swerve.]

1. To swerve. [Obs. or Scot.] Spenser. Jamieson.

2. To climb. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SWASH
Swash, n. Etym: [Cf. Swash, v. i., Squash, v. t.] (Arch.)

Defn: An oval figure, whose moldings are oblique to the axis of the
work. Moxon. Swash plate (Mach.), a revolving circular plate, set
obliquely on its shaft, and acting as a cam to give a reciprocating
motion to a rod in a direction parallel to the shaft.

SWASH
Swash, a. Etym: [Cf. Swash, v. i., Squash, v. t.]

Defn: Soft, like fruit too ripe; swashy. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge.

SWASH
Swash, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Swashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Swashing.] Etym:
[Probably of imitative origin; cf. Sw. svasska to splash, and, for
sense 3, Sw. svassa to bully, to rodomontade.]

1. To dash or flow noisily, as water; to splash; as, water swashing
on a shallow place.

2. To fall violently or noisily. [Obs.] Holinshed.

3. To bluster; to make a great noise; to vapor or brag.

SWASH
Swash, n.

1. Impulse of water flowing with violence; a dashing or splashing of
water.

2. A narrow sound or channel of water lying within a sand bank, or
between a sand bank and the shore, or a bar over which the sea
washes.

3. Liquid filth; wash; hog mash. [Obs.]

4. A blustering noise; a swaggering behavior. [Obs.]

5. A swaggering fellow; a swasher.

SWASHBUCKLER
Swash"buc`kler, n.

Defn: A bully or braggadocio; a swaggering, boastful fellow; a
swaggerer. Milton.

SWASHER
Swash"er, n.

Defn: One who makes a blustering show of valor or force of arms.
Shak.

SWASHING
Swash"ing, a.

1. Swaggering; hectoring. "A swashing and martial outside." Shak.

2. Resounding; crushing. "Swashing blow." Shak.

SWASHWAY
Swash"way`, n.

Defn: Same as 4th Swash, 2.

SWASHY
Swash"y, a.

Defn: Soft, like fruit that is too ripe; quashy; swash. [Prov. Eng.]

SWASTIKA; SWASTICA
Swas"ti*ka, Swas"ti*ca, n. [Also suastica, svastika, etc.] [Skr.
svastika, fr. svasti walfare; su well + asti being.]

Defn: A symbol or ornament in the form of a Greek cross with the ends
of the arms at right angles all in the same direction, and each
prolonged to the height of the parallel arm of the cross. A great
many modified forms exist, ogee and volute as well as rectilinear,
while various decorative designs, as Greek fret or meander, are
derived from or closely associated with it. The swastika is found in
remains from the Bronze Age in various parts of Europe, esp. at
Hissarlik (Troy), and was in frequent use as late as the 10th
century. It is found in ancient Persia, in India, where both Jains
and Buddhists used (or still use) it as religious symbol, in China
and Japan, and among Indian tribes of North, Central, and South
America. It is usually thought to be a charm, talisman, or religious
token, esp. a sign of good luck or benediction. Max MuLler
distinguished from the swastika, with arms prolonged to the right,
the suavastika, with arms prolonged to the left, but this distinction
is not commonly recognized. Other names for the swastika are fylfot
and gammadion.

SWAT
Swat, obs.

Defn: imp. of Sweat. Chaucer.

SWATCH
Swatch, n.

1. A swath. [Obs.] Tusser.

2. A piece, pattern, or sample, generally of cloth. Halliwell.
Jamieson.

SWATE
Swate, obs.

Defn: imp. of Sweat. Thomson.

SWATH
Swath, n. Etym: [AS. swa a track, trace; akin to D. zwaad, zwad,
zwade, a swath of grass, G. schwad, schwaden; perhaps, originally, a
shred. Cf. Swathe, v. t.]

1. A line of grass or grain cut and thrown together by the scythe in
mowing or cradling.

2. The whole sweep of a scythe, or the whole breadth from which grass
or grain is cut by a scythe or a machine, in mowing or cradling; as,
to cut a wide swath.

3. A band or fillet; a swathe. Shak. Swath bank, a row of new-mown
grass. [Prov. Eng.]

SWATHE
Swathe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swathed; p. pr. & vb. n. Swathing.] Etym:
[OE. swathen, AS. swe. See Swath, n., and cf. Swaddle.]

Defn: To bind with a swathe, band, bandage, or rollers.
Their children are never swathed or bound about with any thing when
they are first born. Abp. Abbot.

SWATHE
Swathe, n.

Defn: A bandage; a band; a swath.
Wrapped me in above an hundred yards of swathe. Addison.
Milk and a swathe, at first, his whole demand. Young.
The solemn glory of the afternoon, with its long swathes of light
between the far off rows of limes. G. Eliot.

SWATHER
Swath"er, n. Etym: [See Swath, n.] (Agric.)

Defn: A device attached to a mowing machine for raising the uncut
fallen grain and marking the limit of the swath.

SWATTE
Swat"te, obs.

Defn: imp. of Sweat. Chaucer.

SWAY
Sway, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swayed; p. pr. & vb. n. Swaying.] Etym:
[OE. sweyen, Icel. sveigja, akin to E. swing; cf. D. zwaaijen to
wield, swing. See Swing, and cf. Swag, v. i.]

1. To move or wield with the hand; to swing; to wield; as, to sway
the scepter.
As sparkles from the anvil rise, When heavy hammers on the wedge are
swayed. Spenser.

2. To influence or direct by power and authority; by persuasion, or
by moral force; to rule; to govern; to guide.
The will of man is by his reason swayed. Shak.
She could not sway her house. Shak.
This was the race To sway the world, and land and sea subdue. Dryden.

3. To cause to incline or swing to one side, or backward and forward;
to bias; to turn; to bend; warp; as, reeds swayed by wind; judgment
swayed by passion.
As bowls run true by being made On purpose false, and to be swayed.
Hudibras.
Let not temporal and little advantages sway you against a more
durable interest. Tillotson.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: To hoist; as, to sway up the yards.

Syn.
 -- To bias; rule; govern; direct; influence; swing; move; wave;
wield.

SWAY
Sway, v. i.

1. To be drawn to one side by weight or influence; to lean; to
incline.
The balance sways on our part. Bacon.

2. To move or swing from side to side; or backward and forward.

3. To have weight or influence.
The example of sundry churches . . . doth sway much. Hooker.

4. To bear sway; to rule; to govern.
Hadst thou swayed as kings should do. Shak.

SWAY
Sway, n.

1. The act of swaying; a swaying motion; the swing or sweep of a
weapon.
With huge two-handed sway brandished aloft. Milton.

2. Influence, weight, or authority that inclines to one side; as, the
sway of desires. A. Tucker.

3. Preponderance; turn or cast of balance.
Expert When to advance, or stand, or turn the sway Of battle. Milton.

4. Rule; dominion; control. Cowper.
When vice prevails, and impious men bear sway, The post of honor is a
private station. Addison.

5. A switch or rod used by thatchers to bind their work. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

Syn.
 -- Rule; dominion; power; empire; control; influence; direction;
preponderance; ascendency.

SWAY-BACKED
Sway"-backed`, a.

Defn: Having the back hollow or sagged, whether naturally or as the
result of injury or weakness; -- said of horses and other animals.

SWAY BAR
Sway bar. (Vehicles)
 (a) A bar attached to the hounds, in the rear of the front axle, so
as to slide on the reach as the axle is swung in turning the vehicle.
 (b) Either of the two bars used in coupling the front and rear sleds
of a logging sled; also, the bar used to couple two logging cars.

SWAY-BRACING
Sway"-bra`cing, n. (Engin.)

Defn: The horizontal bracing of a bridge, which prevents its swaying.

SWAYED
Swayed, a.

Defn: Bent down, and hollow in the back; sway-backed; -- said of a
horse. Shak.

SWAYFUL
Sway"ful, a.

Defn: Able to sway. [R.] Rush.

SWAYING
Sway"ing, n.

Defn: An injury caused by violent strains or by overloading; -- said
of the backs of horses. Crabb.

SWEAL
Sweal, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Swealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Swealing.] Etym:
[OE. swelen to burn, AS. swelan; akin to G. schwelen to burn slowly,
schwul sultry, Icel. sv?la a thick smoke.]

Defn: To melt and run down, as the tallow of a candle; to waste away
without feeding the flame. [Written also swale.] Sir W. Scott.

SWEAL
Sweal, v. t.

Defn: To singe; to scorch; to swale; as, to sweal a pig by singeing
off the hair.

SWEAR
Swear, v. i. [imp. Swore, formerly Sware (; p. p. Sworn; p. pr. & vb.
n. Swearing.] Etym: [OE. swerien, AS. swerian; akin to D. zweren, OS.
swerian, OHG. swerien, G. schworen, Icel. sverja, Sw. svarja, Dan.
sv?rge, Icel. & Sw. svara to answer, Dan. svare, Dan. & Sw. svar an
answer, Goth. swaran to swear, and perhaps to E. swarm. *177. Cf.
Answer.]

1. To affirm or utter a solemn declaration, with an appeal to God for
the truth of what is affirmed; to make a promise, threat, or resolve
on oath; also, to affirm solemnly by some sacred object, or one
regarded as sacred, as the Bible, the Koran, etc.
Ye shall swear by my name falsely. Lev. xix. 12.
I swear by all the Roman gods. Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: To give evidence on oath; as, to swear to the truth of a
statement; he swore against the prisoner.

3. To make an appeal to God in an irreverant manner; to use the name
of God or sacred things profanely; to call upon God in imprecation;
to curse.
[I] swore little; diced not above seven times a week. Shak.
To swear by, to place great confidence in a person or thing; to trust
implicitly as an authority. "I simply meant to ask if you are one of
those who swear by Lord Verulam." Miss Edgeworth.
 -- To swear off, to make a solemn vow, or a serious resolution, to
abstain from something; as, to swear off smoking. [Slang]

SWEAR
Swear, v. t.

1. To utter or affirm with a solemn appeal to God for the truth of
the declaration; to make (a promise, threat, or resolve) under oath.
Swear unto me here by God, that thou wilt not deal falsely with me.
Gen. xxi. 23.
He swore consent to your succession. Shak.

2. (Law)

Defn: To put to an oath; to cause to take an oath; to administer an
oath to; -- ofetn followed by in or into; as, to swear witnesses; to
swear a jury; to swear in an officer; he was sworn into office.

3. To declare or charge upon oath; as, he swore treason against his
friend. Johnson.

4. To appeal to by an oath.
Now, by Apollo, king, Thou swear'st thy gods in vain. Shak.
To swear the peace against one, to make oath that one is under the
actual fear of death or bodily harm from the person, in which case
the person must find sureties that he will keep the peace.

SWEARER
Swear"er, n.

1. One who swears; one who calls God to witness for the truth of his
declaration.

2. A profane person; one who uses profane language.
Then the liars and swearers are fools. Shak.

SWEARING
Swear"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Swear, v.
Idle swearing is a cursedness. Chaucer.

SWEAT
Sweat, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sweat or Sweated (Obs. Swat (); p. pr. &
vb. n. Sweating.] Etym: [OE. sweten, AS. sw?tan, fr. swat, n., sweat;
akin to OFries. & OS. swet, D. zweet, OHG. sweiz, G. schweiss, Icel.
sviti, sveiti, Sw. svett, Dan. sved, L. sudor sweat, sudare to sweat,
Gr. sveda sweat, svid to sweat. *178. Cf. Exude, Sudary, Sudorific.]

1. To excrete sensible moisture from the pores of the skin; to
perspire. Shak.

2. Fig.: To perspire in toil; to work hard; to drudge.
He 'd have the poets sweat. Waller.

3. To emit moisture, as green plants in a heap.

SWEAT
Sweat, v. t.

1. To cause to excrete moisture from the skin; to cause to perspire;
as, his physicians attempted to sweat him by most powerful
sudorifics.

2. To emit or suffer to flow from the pores; to exude.
It made her not a drop for sweat. Chaucer.
With exercise she sweat ill humors out. Dryden.

3. To unite by heating, after the application of soldier.

4. To get something advantageous, as money, property, or labor from
(any one), by exaction or oppression; as, to sweat a spendthrift; to
sweat laborers. [Colloq.] To sweat coin, to remove a portion of a
piece of coin, as by shaking it with others in a bag, so that the
friction wears off a small quantity of the metal.
The only use of it [money] which is interdicted is to put it in
circulation again after having diminished its weight by "sweating",
or otherwise, because the quantity of metal contains is no longer
consistent with its impression. R. Cobden.

SWEAT
Sweat, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. swot, AS. swat. See Sweat, v. i.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: The fluid which is excreted from the skin of an animal; the
fluid secreted by the sudoriferous glands; a transparent, colorless,
acid liquid with a peculiar odor, containing some fatty acids and
mineral matter; perspiration. See Perspiration.
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread. Gen. iii. 19.

2. The act of sweating; or the state of one who sweats; hence, labor;
toil; drudgery. Shak.

3. Moisture issuing from any substance; as, the sweat of hay or grain
in a mow or stack. Mortimer.

4. The sweating sickness. [Obs.] Holinshed.

5. (Man.)

Defn: A short run by a race horse in exercise. Sweat box (Naut.), a
small closet in which refractory men are confined.
 -- Sweat glands (Anat.), sudoriferous glands. See under
Sudoriferous.

SWEATER
Sweat"er, n.

1. One who sweats.

2. One who, or that which, causes to sweat; as:
(a) A sudorific.
(b) A woolen jacket or jersey worn by athletes.
(c) An employer who oppresses his workmen by paying low wages.
[Slang]

SWEATILY
Sweat"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sweaty manner.

SWEATINESS
Sweat"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being sweaty.

SWEATING
Sweat"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Sweat, v. Sweating bath, a bath producing sensible
sweat; a stove or sudatory.
 -- Sweating house, a house for sweating persons in sickness.
 -- Sweating iron, a kind of knife, or a piece of iron, used to
scrape off sweat, especially from horses; a horse scraper.
 -- Sweating room. (a) A room for sweating persons. (b) (Dairying) A
room for sweating cheese and carrying off the superfluous juices.
 -- Sweating sickness (Med.), a febrile epidemic disease which
prevailed in some countries of Europe, but particularly in England,
in the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries, characterized by profuse
sweating. Death often occured in a few hours.

SWEATY
Sweat"y, a. [Compar. Sweatier; superl. Sweatiest.]

1. Moist with sweat; as, a sweaty skin; a sweaty garment.

2. Consisting of sweat; of the nature of sweat.
No noisome whiffs or sweaty streams. Swift.

3. Causing sweat; hence, laborious; toilsome; difficult. "The sweaty
forge." Prior.

SWEDE
Swede, n. Etym: [Cf. G. Schwede.]

1. A native or inhabitant of Sweden.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A Swedish turnip. See under Turnip.

SWEDENBORGIAN
Swe`den*bor"gi*an, n.

Defn: One who holds the doctrines of the New Jerusalem church, as
taught by Emanuel Swedenborg, a Swedish philosopher and religious
writer, who was born a. d. 1688 and died 1772. Swedenborg claimed to
have intercourse with the spiritual world, through the opening of his
spiritual senses in 1745. He taught that the Lord Jesus Christ, as
comprehending in himself all the fullness of the Godhead, is the one
only God, and that there is a spiritual sense to the Scriptures,
which he (Swedenborg) was able to reveal, because he saw the
correspondence between natural and spiritual things.

SWEDENBORGIAN
Swe`den*bor"gi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Swedenborg or his views.

SWEDENBORGIANISM
Swe`den*bor"gi*an*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines of the Swedenborgians.

SWEDISH
Swed"ish, a. Etym: [Cf. G. schwedisch, Sw. svensk.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sweden or its inhabitants. Swedish turnip.
(Bot.) See under Turnip.

SWEDISH
Swed"ish, n.

Defn: The language of Swedes.

SWEENY
Swee"ny, n. (Far.)

Defn: An atrophy of the muscles of the shoulder in horses; also,
atrophy of any muscle in horses. [Written also swinney.]

SWEEP
Sweep, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swept; p. pr. & vb. n. Sweeping.] Etym:
[OE. swepen; akin to AS. swapan. See Swoop, v. i.]

1. To pass a broom across (a surface) so as to remove loose dirt,
dust, etc.; to brush, or rub over, with a broom for the purpose of
cleaning; as, to sweep a floor, the street, or a chimney. Used also
figuratively.
I will sweep it with the besom of destruction. Isa. xiv. 23.

2. To drive or carry along or off with a broom or a brush, or as if
with a broom; to remove by, or as if by, brushing; as, to sweep dirt
from a floor; the wind sweeps the snow from the hills; a freshet
sweeps away a dam, timber, or rubbish; a pestilence sweeps off
multitudes.
The hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies. Isa. xxviii. 17.
I have already swept the stakes. Dryden.

3. To brush against or over; to rub lightly along.
Their long descending train, With rubies edged and sapphires, swept
the plain. Dryden.

4. To carry with a long, swinging, or dragging motion; hence, to
carry in a stately or proud fashion.
And like a peacock sweep along his tail. Shak.

5. To strike with a long stroke.
Wake into voice each silent string, And sweep the sounding lyre.
Pope.

6. (Naut.)

Defn: To draw or drag something over; as, to sweep the bottom of a
river with a net.

7. To pass over, or traverse, with the eye or with an instrument of
observation; as, to sweep the heavens with a telescope. To sweep, or
sweep up, a mold (Founding), to form the sand into a mold by a
templet, instead of compressing it around the pattern.

SWEEP
Sweep, v. i.

1. To clean rooms, yards, etc., or to clear away dust, dirt, litter,
etc., with a broom, brush, or the like.

2. To brush swiftly over the surface of anything; to pass with
switness and force, as if brushing the surface of anything; to move
in a stately manner; as, the wind sweeps across the plain; a woman
sweeps through a drawing-room.

3. To pass over anything comprehensively; to range through with
rapidity; as, his eye sweeps through space.

SWEEP
Sweep, n.

1. The act of sweeping.

2. The compass or range of a stroke; as, a long sweep.

3. The compass of any turning body or of any motion; as, the sweep of
a door; the sweep of the eye.

4. The compass of anything flowing or brushing; as, the flood carried
away everything within its sweep.

5. Violent and general destruction; as, the sweep of an epidemic
disease.

6. Direction and extent of any motion not rectlinear; as, the sweep
of a compass.

7. Direction or departure of a curve, a road, an arch, or the like,
away from a rectlinear line.
The road which makes a small sweep. Sir W. Scott.

8. One who sweeps; a sweeper; specifically, a chimney sweeper.

9. (Founding)

Defn: A movable templet for making molds, in loam molding.

10. (Naut.)
(a) The mold of a ship when she begins to curve in at the rungheads;
any part of a ship shaped in a segment of a circle.
(b) A large oar used in small vessels, partly to propel them and
partly to steer them.

11. (Refining)

Defn: The almond furnace. [Obs.]

12. A long pole, or piece of timber, moved on a horizontal fulcrum
fixed to a tall post and used to raise and lower a bucket in a well
for drawing water. [Variously written swape, sweep, swepe, and
swipe.]

13. (Card Playing)

Defn: In the game of casino, a pairing or combining of all the cards
on the board, and so removing them all; in whist, the winning of all
the tricks (thirteen) in a hand; a slam.

14. pl.

Defn: The sweeping of workshops where precious metals are worked,
containing filings, etc. Sweep net, a net for drawing over a large
compass.
 -- Sweep of the tiller (Naut.), a circular frame on which the tiller
traverses.

SWEEPAGE
Sweep"age, n.

Defn: The crop of hay got in a meadow. [Prov. Eng.]

SWEEPER
Sweep"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sweeps, or cleans by sweeping; a sweep;
as, a carpet sweeper.
It is oxygen which is the great sweeper of the economy. Huxley.

SWEEPING
Sweep"ing, a.

Defn: Cleaning off surfaces, or cleaning away dust, dirt, or litter,
as a broom does; moving with swiftness and force; carrying everything
before it; including in its scope many persons or things; as, a
sweeping flood; a sweeping majority; a sweeping accusation.
 -- Sweep"ing*ly, adv. -Sweep"ing*ness, n.

SWEEPINGS
Sweep"ings, n. pl.

Defn: Things collected by sweeping; rubbish; as, the sweepings of a
street.

SWEEP-SAW
Sweep"-saw`, n.

Defn: A bow-saw.

SWEEPSTAKE
Sweep"stake`, n.

1. A winning of all the stakes or prizes. Heylin.

2. A complete removal or carrying away; a clean sweep. [Obs.] Bp.
Hacket.

SWEEPSTAKES
Sweep"stakes`, n.

1. A winning of all the stakes or prizes; a sweepstake.

2. sing. or pl.

Defn: The whole money or other things staked at a horse race, a given
sum being put up for each horse, all of which goes to the winner, or
is divided among several, as may be previously agreed.

3. A race for all the sums staked or prizes offered.

SWEEPWASHER
Sweep"wash`er, n.

Defn: One who extracts the residuum of precious metals from the
sweepings, potsherds, etc., of refineries of gold and silver, or
places where these metals are used.

SWEEPY
Sweep"y, a.

Defn: Moving with a sweeping motion.
The branches bend before their sweepy away. Dryden.

SWEET
Sweet, a. [Compar. Sweeter; superl. Sweetest.] Etym: [OE. swete,
swote, sote, AS. swete; akin to OFries. swete, OS. swoti, D. zoet, G.
suss, OHG. suozi, Icel. s?tr, soetr, Sw. sot, Dan. sod, Goth. suts,
L. suavis, for suadvis, Gr. svadu sweet, svad, svad, to sweeten.
*175. Cf. Assuage, Suave, Suasion.]

1. Having an agreeable taste or flavor such as that of sugar;
saccharine; -- opposed to sour and bitter; as, a sweet beverage;
sweet fruits; sweet oranges.

2. Pleasing to the smell; fragrant; redolent; balmy; as, a sweet
rose; sweet odor; sweet incense.
The breath of these flowers is sweet to me. Longfellow.

3. Pleasing to the ear; soft; melodious; harmonious; as, the sweet
notes of a flute or an organ; sweet music; a sweet voice; a sweet
singer.
To make his English sweet upon his tongue. Chaucer.
A voice sweet, tremulous, but powerful. Hawthorne.

4. Pleasing to the eye; beautiful; mild and attractive; fair; as, a
sweet face; a sweet color or complexion.
Sweet interchange Of hill and valley, rivers, woods, and plains.
Milton.

5. Fresh; not salt or brackish; as, sweet water. Bacon.

6. Not changed from a sound or wholesome state. Specifically: (a) Not
sour; as, sweet milk or bread. (b) Not state; not putrescent or
putrid; not rancid; as, sweet butter; sweet meat or fish.

7. Plaesing to the mind; mild; gentle; calm; amiable; winning;
presuasive; as, sweet manners.
Canst thou bind the sweet influence of Pleiades Job xxxviii. 31.
Mildness and sweet reasonableness is the one established rule of
Christian working. M. Arnold.

Note: Sweet is often used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, sweet-blossomed, sweet-featured, sweet-smelling,
sweet-tempered, sweet-toned, etc. Sweet alyssum. (Bot.) See Alyssum.
 -- Sweet apple. (Bot.) (a) Any apple of sweet flavor. (b) See Sweet-
top.
 -- Sweet bay. (Bot.) (a) The laurel (laurus nobilis). (b) Swamp
sassafras.
 -- Sweet calabash (Bot.), a plant of the genus Passiflora (P.
maliformis) growing in the West Indies, and producing a roundish,
edible fruit, the size of an apple.
 -- Sweet cicely. (Bot.) (a) Either of the North American plants of
the umbelliferous genus Osmorrhiza having aromatic roots and seeds,
and white flowers. Gray. (b) A plant of the genus Myrrhis (M.
odorata) growing in England.
 -- Sweet calamus, or Sweet cane. (Bot.) Same as Sweet flag, below.
 -- Sweet Cistus (Bot.), an evergreen shrub (Cistus Ladanum) from
which the gum ladanum is obtained.
 -- Sweet clover. (Bot.) See Melilot.
 -- Sweet coltsfoot (Bot.), a kind of butterbur (Petasites sagittata)
found in Western North America.
 -- Sweet corn (Bot.), a variety of the maize of a sweet taste. See
the Note under Corn.
 -- Sweet fern (Bot.), a small North American shrub (Comptonia, or
Myrica, asplenifolia) having sweet-scented or aromatic leaves
resembling fern leaves.
 -- Sweet flag (Bot.), an endogenous plant (Acorus Calamus) having
long flaglike leaves and a rootstock of a pungent aromatic taste. It
is found in wet places in Europe and America. See Calamus, 2.
 -- Sweet gale (Bot.), a shrub (Myrica Gale) having bitter fragrant
leaves; -- also called sweet willow, and Dutch myrtle. See 5th Gale.
Sweet grass (Bot.), holy, or Seneca, grass.
 -- Sweet gum (Bot.), an American tree (Liquidambar styraciflua). See
Liquidambar.
 -- Sweet herbs, fragrant herbs cultivated for culinary purposes.
 -- Sweet John (Bot.), a variety of the sweet William.
 -- Sweet leaf (Bot.), horse sugar. See under Horse.
 -- Sweet marjoram. (Bot.) See Marjoram.
 -- Sweet marten (Zool.), the pine marten.
 -- Sweet maudlin (Bot.), a composite plant (Achillea Ageratum)
allied to milfoil.
 -- Sweet oil, olive oil.
 -- Sweet pea. (Bot.) See under Pea.
 -- Sweet potato. (Bot.) See under Potato.
 -- Sweet rush (Bot.), sweet flag.
 -- Sweet spirits of niter (Med. Chem.) See Spirit of nitrous ether,
under Spirit.
 -- Sweet sultan (Bot.), an annual composite plant (Centaurea
moschata), also, the yellow-flowered (C. odorata); -- called also
sultan flower.
 -- Sweet tooth, an especial fondness for sweet things or for
sweetmeats. [Colloq.] -- Sweet William. (a) (Bot.) A species of pink
(Dianthus barbatus) of many varieties. (b) (Zool.) The willow
warbler. (c) (Zool.) The European goldfinch; -- called also sweet
Billy. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sweet willow (Bot.), sweet gale.
 -- Sweet wine. See Dry wine, under Dry.
 -- To be sweet on, to have a particular fondness for, or special
interest in, as a young man for a young woman. [Colloq.] Thackeray.

Syn.
 -- Sugary; saccharine; dulcet; luscious.

SWEET
Sweet, n.

1. That which is sweet to the taste; -- used chiefly in the plural.
Specifically:
(a) Confectionery, sweetmeats, preserves, etc.
(b) Home-made wines, cordials, metheglin, etc.

2. That which is sweet or pleasant in odor; a perfume. "A wilderness
of sweets." Milton.

3. That which is pleasing or grateful to the mind; as, the sweets of
domestic life.
A little bitter mingled in our cup leaves no relish of the sweet.
Locke.

4. One who is dear to another; a darling; -- a term of endearment.
"Wherefore frowns my sweet" B. Jonson.

SWEET
Sweet, adv.

Defn: Sweetly. Shak.

SWEET
Sweet, v. t.

Defn: To sweeten. [Obs.] Udall.

SWEETBREAD
Sweet"bread`, n.

1. Either the thymus gland or the pancreas, the former being called
neck, or throat, sweetbread, the latter belly sweetbread. The
sweetbreads of ruminants, esp. of the calf, are highly esteemed as
food. See Pancreas, and Thymus.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The pancreas.

SWEET-BREASTED
Sweet"-breast`ed, a.

Defn: Having a sweet, musical voice, as the nightingale. Cf. Breast,
n., 6. [Obs.]

SWEETBRIER
Sweet"bri`er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of rose (Rosa rubiginosa) with minutely glandular and
fragrant foliage. The small-flowered sweetbrier is Rosa micrantha.

SWEETEN
Sweet"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sweetened; p. pr. & vb. n. Sweetening.]
Etym: [See Sweet, a.]

1. To make sweet to the taste; as, to sweeten tea.

2. To make pleasing or grateful to the mind or feelings; as, to
sweeten life; to sweeten friendship.

3. To make mild or kind; to soften; as, to sweeten the temper.

4. To make less painful or laborious; to relieve; as, to sweeten the
cares of life. Dryden.
And sweeten every secret tear. Keble.

5. To soften to the eye; to make delicate.
Correggio has made his memory immortal by the strength he has given
to his figures, and by sweetening his lights and shadows, and melting
them into each other. Dryden.

6. To make pure and salubrious by destroying noxious matter; as, to
sweeten rooms or apartments that have been infected; to sweeten the
air.

7. To make warm and fertile; -- opposed to sour; as, to dry and
sweeten soils.

8. To restore to purity; to free from taint; as, to sweeten water,
butter, or meat.

SWEETEN
Sweet"en, v. i.

Defn: To become sweet. Bacon.

SWEETENER
Sweet"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sweetens; one who palliates; that which
moderates acrimony.

SWEETENING
Sweet"en*ing, n.

1. The act of making sweet.

2. That which sweetens.

SWEETHEART
Sweet"heart`, n.

Defn: A lover of mistress.

SWEETHEARTING
Sweet"heart`ing, n.

Defn: Making love. "To play at sweethearting." W. Black.

SWEETING
Sweet"ing, n.

1. A sweet apple. Ascham.

2. A darling; -- a word of endearment. Shak.

SWEETISH
Sweet"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat sweet.
 -- Sweet"ish*ness, n.

SWEETLY
Sweet"ly, adv. Etym: [AS. swetlice.]

Defn: In a sweet manner.

SWEETMEAT
Sweet"meat`, n.

1. Fruit preserved with sugar, as peaches, pears, melons, nuts,
orange peel, etc.; -- usually in the plural; a confect; a confection.

2. The paint used in making patent leather.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A boat shell (Crepidula fornicata) of the American coast.
[Local, U.S.]

SWEETNESS
Sweet"ness, n. Etym: [AS. swetness.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sweet (in any sense of the
adjective); gratefulness to the taste or to the smell; agreeableness.

SWEETROOT
Sweet"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Licorice.

SWEET-SCENTED
Sweet"-scent`ed, a.

Defn: Having a sweet scent or smell; fragrant. Sweet-scented shrub
(Bot.), a shrub of the genus Calycanthus, the flowers of which, when
crushed, have a fragrance resembling that of strawberries.

SWEET-SOP
Sweet"-sop`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of custard apple (Anona squamosa). See under Custard.

SWEETWATER
Sweet"wa`ter, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of white grape, having a sweet watery juice; -- also
called white sweetwater, and white muscadine.

SWEETWEED
Sweet"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name for two tropical American weeds (Capraria biflora, and
Scoparia dulcis) of the Figwort family.

SWEETWOOD
Sweet"wood`, n. (Bot.)
(a) The true laurel (Laurus nobilis.)
(b) The timber of the tree Oreodaphne Leucoxylon, growing in Jamaica.
The name is also applied to the timber of several other related
trees.

SWEETWORT
Sweet"wort`, n.

Defn: Any plant of a sweet taste.

SWEIGH
Sweigh, n.

Defn: Sway; movement. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWEINMOTE
Swein"mote`, n.

Defn: See Swainmote. [Obs.]

SWELL
Swell, v. i. [imp. Swelled; p. p. Swelled or Swollen (; p. pr. & vb.
n. Swelling.] Etym: [AS. swellan; akin to D. zwellen, OS. & OHG.
swellan, G. schwellen, Icel. svella, Sw. svalla.]

1. To grow larger; to dilate or extend the exterior surface or
dimensions, by matter added within, or by expansion of the inclosed
substance; as, the legs swell in dropsy; a bruised part swells; a
bladder swells by inflation.

2. To increase in size or extent by any addition; to increase in
volume or force; as, a river swells, and overflows its banks; sounds
swell or diminish.

3. To rise or be driven into waves or billows; to heave; as, in
tempest, the ocean swells into waves.

4. To be puffed up or bloated; as, to swell with pride.
You swell at the tartan, as the bull is said to do at scarlet. Sir W.
Scott.

5. To be inflated; to belly; as, the sails swell.

6. To be turgid, bombastic, or extravagant; as, swelling words; a
swelling style.

7. To protuberate; to bulge out; as, a cask swells in the middle.

8. To be elated; to rise arrogantly.
Your equal mind yet swells not into state. Dryden.

9. To grow upon the view; to become larger; to expand. "Monarchs to
behold the swelling scene!" Shak.

10. To become larger in amount; as, many little debts added, swell to
a great amount.

11. To act in a pompous, ostentatious, or arrogant manner; to strut;
to look big.
Here he comes, swelling like a turkey cock. Shak.

SWELL
Swell, v. t.

1. To increase the size, bulk, or dimensions of; to cause to rise,
dilate, or increase; as, rains and dissolving snow swell the rivers
in spring; immigration swells the population.
[The Church] swells her high, heart-cheering tone. Keble.

2. To aggravate; to heighten.
It is low ebb with his accuser when such peccadilloes are put to
swell the charge. Atterbury.

3. To raise to arrogance; to puff up; to inflate; as, to be swelled
with pride or haughtiness.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: To augment gradually in force or loudness, as the sound of a
note.

SWELL
Swell, n.

1. The act of swelling.

2. Gradual increase. Specifically:
(a) Increase or augmentation in bulk; protuberance.
(b) Increase in height; elevation; rise.
Little River affords navigation during a swell to within three miles
of the Miami. Jefferson.

(c) Increase of force, intensity, or volume of sound.
Music arose with its voluptuous swell. Byron.

(d) Increase of power in style, or of rhetorical force.
The swell and subsidence of his periods. Landor.

3. A gradual ascent, or rounded elevation, of land; as, an extensive
plain abounding with little swells.

4. A wave, or billow; especially, a succession of large waves; the
roll of the sea after a storm; as, a heavy swell sets into the
harbor.
The swell Of the long waves that roll in yonder bay. Tennyson.
The gigantic swells and billows of the snow. Hawthorne.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A gradual increase and decrease of the volume of sound; the
crescendo and diminuendo combined; -- generally indicated by the
sign.

6. A showy, dashing person; a dandy. [Slang] Ground swell. See under
Ground.
 -- Organ swell (Mus.), a certain number of pipes inclosed in a box,
the uncovering of which by means of a pedal produces increased sound.
 -- Swell shark (Zool.), a small shark (Scyllium ventricosum) of the
west coast of North America, which takes in air when caught, and
swells up like a swellfish.

SWELL
Swell, a.

Defn: Having the characteristics of a person of rank and importance;
showy; dandified; distinguished; as, a swell person; a swell
neighborhood. [Slang] Swell mob. See under Mob. [Slang]

SWELLDOM
Swell"dom, n.

Defn: People of rank and fashion; the class of swells, collectively.
[Jocose]

SWELLFISH
Swell"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any plectognath fish that dilates itself, as the bur fish,
puffer, or diodon.

SWELLING
Swell"ing, n.

1. The act of that which swells; as, the swelling of rivers in
spring; the swelling of the breast with pride.
Rise to the swelling of the voiceless sea. Coleridge.

2. A protuberance; a prominence; especially (Med.),

Defn: an unnatural prominence or protuberance; as, a scrofulous
swelling.
The superficies of such plates are not even, but have many cavities
and swellings. Sir I. Newton.

SWELLISH
Swell"ish, a.

Defn: Dandified; stylish. [Slang]

SWELLTOAD
Swell"toad`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A swellfish.

SWELT
Swelt, obs.

Defn: imp. of Swell.

SWELT
Swelt, v. i. Etym: [OE. swelten to die, to swoon or faint, AS.
sweltan to die; akin to OD. swelten to hunger, to fail, OS. sweltan
to die, Icel. svelta to die, to hunger, Sw. svalta to hunger, Dan.
sulte, Goth. sviltan to die. Cf. Swelter, Sweltry.]

1. To die; to perish. [Obs.]

2. To faint; to swoon. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Night she swelt for passing joy. Spenser.

SWELT
Swelt, v. t.

Defn: To overpower, as with heat; to cause to faint; to swelter.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Bp. Hall.

SWELTER
Swel"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sweltered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sweltering.]
Etym: [From Swelt, v. i.]

1. To be overcome and faint with heat; to be ready to perish with
heat. "Sweltered cattle." Coleridge.

2. To welter; to soak. [Obs.] Drayton.

SWELTER
Swel"ter, v. t.

1. To oppress with heat. Bentley.

2. To exude, like sweat. [R.] Shak.

SWELTRY
Swel"try, a. Etym: [See Swelter, Swelt, v. i., and cf. Sultry.]

Defn: Suffocating with heat; oppressively hot; sultry. [R.] Evelyn.

SWELVE
Swel"ve, v. t.

Defn: To swallow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWEPT
Swept,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Sweep.

SWERD
Swerd, n. & v.

Defn: See Sward, n. & v. [Obs.]

SWERD
Swerd, n.

Defn: Sword. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWERVE
Swerve, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Swerved; p. pr. & vb. n. Swerving.] Etym:
[OE. swerven, AS. sweorfan to wipe off, to file, to polish; akin to
OFries. swerva to creep, D. zwerven to swerve, to rope, OS. swerban
to wipe off, MHG. swerben to be whirled, OHG. swerban to wipe off,
Icel. sverfa to file, Goth. swairban (in comp.) to wipe, and perhaps
to E. swarm. Cf. Swarm.]

1. To stray; to wander; to rope. [Obs.]
A maid thitherward did run, To catch her sparrow which from her did
swerve. Sir P. Sidney.

2. To go out of a straight line; to deflect. "The point [of the
sword] swerved." Sir P. Sidney.

3. To wander from any line prescribed, or from a rule or duty; to
depart from what is established by law, duty, custom, or the like; to
deviate.
I swerve not from thy commandments. Bk. of Com. Prayer.
They swerve from the strict letter of the law. Clarendon.
Many who, through the contagion of evil example, swerve exceedingly
from the rules of their holy religion. Atterbury.

4. To bend; to incline. "The battle swerved." Milton.

5. To climb or move upward by winding or turning.
The tree was high; Yet nimbly up from bough to bough I swerved.
Dryden.

SWERVE
Swerve, v. t.

Defn: To turn aside. Gauden.

SWEVEN
Swe"ven, n. Etym: [AS. swefen sleep, dream; akin to swebban, swefian,
to put to sleep, to kill. *176. See Somnolent.]

Defn: A vision seen in sleep; a dream. [Obs.] Wycliff (Acts ii. 17).
I defy both sweven and dream. Chaucer.

SWICH
Swich, a. Etym: [See Such.]

Defn: Such. [Obs.]
Swich things as that I know I will declare. Chaucer.

SWIETENIA
Swie*te"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. Named after Gerard Van Sweiten, physician
to Maria Theresa of Austria.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of meliaceous trees consisting of one species
(Sweitenia Mahogoni), the mahogany tree.

SWIFT
Swift, a. [Compar. Swifter; superl. Swiftest.] Etym: [AS. swift; akin
to swapan to sweep, swipu a whip; cf. swifan to move quickly, to
revolve. See Swoop, v. i., and cf. Swivel, Squib.]

1. Moving a great distance in a short time; moving with celerity or
velocity; fleet; rapid; quick; speedy; prompt.
My beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak,
slow to wrath. James i. 19.
Swift of dispatch and easy of access. Dryden.
And bring upon themselves swift destruction. 2 Pet. ii. 1.

2. Of short continuance; passing away quickly. Shak.

Note: Swift is often used in the formation of compounds which are
generally self-explaining; as, swift-darting, swift-footed, swift-
winged, etc.

Syn.
 -- Quick; fleet; speedy; rapid; expeditious.

SWIFT
Swift, adv.

Defn: Swiftly. [Obs. or Poetic] Shak.
Ply swift and strong the oar. Southey.

SWIFT
Swift, n.

1. The current of a stream. [R.] Walton.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small, long-winged,
insectivorous birds of the family Micropodid?. In form and habits the
swifts resemble swallows, but they are destitute of complex vocal
muscles and are not singing birds, but belong to a widely different
group allied to the humming birds.

Note: The common European swift (Cypselus, or Micropus, apus) nests
in church steeples and under the tiles of roofs, and is noted for its
rapid flight and shrill screams. It is called also black martin,
black swift, hawk swallow, devil bird, swingdevil, screech martin,
and shreik owl. The common American, or chimney, swift (Ch?tura
pelagica) has sharp rigid tips to the tail feathers. It attaches its
nest to the inner walls of chimneys, and is called also chimney
swallow. The Australian swift (Ch?tura caudacuta) also has sharp
naked tips to the tail quills. The European Alpine swift (Cypselus
melba) is whitish beneath, with a white band across the breast. The
common Indian swift is Cypselus affinis. See also Palm swift, under
Palm, and Tree swift, under Tree.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of lizards, as the pine lizard.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: The ghost moth. See under Ghost.

5. Etym: [Cf. Swivel.]

Defn: A reel, or turning instrument, for winding yarn, thread, etc.;
-- used chiefly in the plural.

6. The main card cylinder of a flax-carding machine.

SWIFTER
Swift"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Swivel.] (Naut.)
(a) A rope used to retain the bars of the capstan in their sockets
while men are turning it.
(b) A rope used to encircle a boat longitudinally, to strengthen and
defend her sides.
(c) The forward shroud of a lower mast.

SWIFTER
Swift"er, v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: To tighten, as slack standing rigging, by bringing the opposite
shrouds nearer.

SWIFTFOOT
Swift"foot`, a.

Defn: Nimble; fleet. Mir. for Mag.

SWIFTFOOT
Swift"foot`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The courser.

SWIFTLET
Swift"let, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small East Indian and Asiatic
swifts of the genus Collocalia. Some of the species are noted for
furnishing the edible bird's nest. See Illust. under Edible.

SWIFTLY
Swift"ly, adv.

Defn: In a swift manner; with quick motion or velocity; fleetly.
Wyclif.

SWIFTNESS
Swift"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being swift; speed; quickness;
celerity; velocity; rapidity; as, the swiftness of a bird; the
swiftness of a stream; swiftness of descent in a falling body;
swiftness of thought, etc.

SWIG
Swig, v. t. Etym: [Cf. D. zwelgen to swallow, E. swallow, v.t.]

1. To drink in long draughts; to gulp; as, to swig cider. [Colloq.]

2. To suck. [Obs. or Archaic]
The lambkins swig the teat. Creech.

SWIG
Swig, n.

1. A long draught. [Colloq.] Marryat.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A tackle with ropes which are not parallel.

3. A beverage consisting of warm beer flavored with spices, lemon,
etc. [Prov. Eng.]

SWIG
Swig, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. swig to leak out, AS. swijian to be
silent, swican to evade, escape.]

1. To castrate, as a ram, by binding the testicles tightly with a
string, so that they mortify and slough off. [Prov. Eng.]

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To pull upon (a tackle) by throwing the weight of the body upon
the fall between the block and a cleat.

SWILL
Swill, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Swilling.] Etym:
[OE. swilen to wash, AS. swilian.]

1. To wash; to drench. [Obs.]
As fearfully as doth a galled rock O'erhang and jutty his confounded
base, Swilled with the wild and wasteful ocean. Shak.

2. Etym: [Properly, to drink like a pig. See Swill, n.]

Defn: To drink in great draughts; to swallow greedily.
Well-dressed people, of both sexes, . . . devouring sliced beef, and
swilling pork, and punch, and cider. Smollett.

3. To inebriate; to fill with drink.
I should be loth To meet the rudeness and swilled insolence Of such
late wassailers. Milton.

SWILL
Swill, v. i.

Defn: To drink greedily or swinishly; to drink to excess. South.

SWILL
Swill, n.

1. The wash, or mixture of liquid substances, given to swine;
hogwash; -- called also swillings.

2. Large draughts of liquor; drink taken in excessive quantities.

SWILLER
Swill"er, n.

Defn: One who swills.

SWILLINGS
Swill"ings, n. pl.

Defn: See Swill, n., 1.

SWIM
Swim, v. i. [imp. Swam or Swum (; p. p. Swum; p. pr. & vb. n.
Swimming.] Etym: [AS. swimman; akin to D. zwemmen, OHG. swimman, G.
schwimmen, Icel. svimma, Dan. swomme, Sw. simma. Cf. Sound an air
bladder, a strait.]

1. To be supported by water or other fluid; not to sink; to float;
as, any substance will swim, whose specific gravity is less than that
of the fluid in which it is immersed.

2. To move progressively in water by means of strokes with the hands
and feet, or the fins or the tail.
Leap in with me into this angry flood, And swim to yonder point.
Shak.

3. To be overflowed or drenched. Ps. vi. 6.
Sudden the ditches swell, the meadows swim. Thomson.

4. Fig.: To be as if borne or floating in a fluid.
[They] now swim in joy. Milton.

5. To be filled with swimming animals. [Obs.]
[Streams] that swim full of small fishes. Chaucer.

SWIM
Swim, v. t.

1. To pass or move over or on by swimming; as, to swim a stream.
Sometimes he thought to swim the stormy main. Dryden.

2. To cause or compel to swim; to make to float; as, to swim a horse
across a river.

3. To immerse in water that the lighter parts may float; as, to swim
wheat in order to select seed.

SWIM
Swim, n.

1. The act of swimming; a gliding motion, like that of one swimming.
B. Jonson.

2. The sound, or air bladder, of a fish.

3. A part of a stream much frequented by fish. [Eng.] Swim bladder,
an air bladder of a fish.
 -- To be in the swim, to be in a favored position; to be associated
with others in active affairs. [Colloq.]

SWIM
Swim, v. i. Etym: [OE. swime dizziness, vertigo, AS. swima; akin to
D. zwijm, Icel. svimi dizziness, svina to subside, svia to abate, G.
schwindel dizziness, schwinden to disappear, to dwindle, OHG. swinan
to dwindle. Cf. Squemish, Swindler.]

Defn: To be dizzy; to have an unsteady or reeling sensation; as, the
head swims.

SWIMBEL
Swim"bel, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A moaning or sighing sound or noise; a sough. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWIMMER
Swim"mer, n.

1. One who swims.

2. (Far.)

Defn: A protuberance on the leg of a horse.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A swimming bird; one of the natatores. Little swimmer (Zool.),
a phalarope.

SWIMMERET
Swim"mer*et, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of a series of flat, fringed, and usually bilobed,
appendages, of which several pairs occur on the abdominal somites of
many crustaceans. They are used as fins in swimming.

SWIMMING
Swim"ming, a.

1. That swims; capable of swimming; adapted to, or used in, swimming;
as, a swimming bird; a swimming motion.

2. Suffused with moisture; as, swimming eyes. Swimming bell (Zool.),
a nectocalyx. See Illust. under Siphonophora.
 -- Swimming crab (Zool.), any one of numerous species of marine
crabs, as those of the family Protunid?, which have some of the
joints of one or more pairs of legs flattened so as to serve as fins.

SWIMMING
Swim"ming, n.

Defn: The act of one who swims.

SWIMMING
Swim"ming, a. Etym: [From Swim to be dizzy.]

Defn: Being in a state of vertigo or dizziness; as, a swimming brain.

SWIMMING
Swim"ming, n.

Defn: Vertigo; dizziness; as, a swimming in the head. Dryden.

SWIMMINGLY
Swim"ming*ly, adv.

Defn: In an easy, gliding manner, as if swimming; smoothly;
successfully; prosperously.

SWIMMINGNESS
Swim"ming*ness, n.

Defn: Act or state of swimming; suffusion. "A swimmingness in the
eye." Congreve.

SWINCK
Swinck, v. & n.

Defn: See Swink.

SWINDLE
Swin"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swindled; p. pr. & vb. n. Swindling.]
Etym: [See Swindler.]

Defn: To cheat defraud grossly, or with deliberate artifice; as, to
swindle a man out of his property.
Lammote . . . has swindled one of them out of three hundred livres.
Carlyle.

SWINDLE
Swin"dle, n.

Defn: The act or process of swindling; a cheat.

SWINDLER
Swin"dler, n. Etym: [G. schwindler, fr. schwindlen to be dizzy, to
act thoughtlessly, to cheat, fr. schwindel dizziness, fr. schwinden
to vanish, to disappear, to dwindle. See Swim to be dizzy.]

Defn: One who swindles, or defrauds grossly; one who makes a practice
of defrauding others by imposition or deliberate artifice; a cheat.

Syn.
 -- Sharper; rogue.
 -- Swindler, Sharper. These words agree in describing persons who
take unfair advantages. A swindler is one who obtains money or goods
under false pretenses. A sharper is one who cheats by sharp practice,
as in playing at cards or staking what he can not pay.
Fraud and injustice soon follow, and the dignity of the British
merchant is sunk in the scandalous appellation of a swindler. V.
Knox.
Perhaps you 'll think I act the same As a sly sharper plays his game.
Cotton.

SWINDLERY
Swin"dler*y, n.

Defn: Swindling; rougery. [R.] "Swindlery and blackguardism."
Carlyle.

SWINE
Swine, n.sing. & pl. Etym: [OE. swin, AS. swin; akin to OFries. & OS.
swin, D. zwijn, G. schwein, OHG. swin, Icel. svin, Sw. svin, Dan.
sviin, Goth. swein; originally a diminutive corresponding to E. sow.
See Sow, n.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any animal of the hog kind, especially one of the domestical
species. Swine secrete a large amount of subcutaneous fat, which,
when extracted, is known as lard. The male is specifically called
boar, the female, sow, and the young, pig. See Hog. "A great herd of
swine." Mark v. 11. Swine grass (Bot.), knotgrass (Polygonum
aviculare); -- so called because eaten by swine.
 -- Swine oat (Bot.), a kind of oat sometimes grown for swine.
 -- Swine's cress (Bot.), a species of cress of the genus Senebiera
(S. Coronopus).
 -- Swine's head, a dolt; a blockhead. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- Swine thistle (Bot.), the sow thistle.

SWINEBREAD
Swine"bread`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The truffle.

SWINECASE
Swine"case`, n.

Defn: A hogsty. [Prov. Eng.]

SWINECOTE
Swine"cote`, n.

Defn: A hogsty. [Prov. Eng.]

SWINECRUE
Swine"crue`, n. Etym: [Swine + Prov. E. crue a coop.]

Defn: A hogsty. [Prov. Eng.]

SWINEFISH
Swine"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The wolf fish.

SWINEHERD
Swine"herd`, n.

Defn: A keeper of swine.

SWINEPIPE
Swine"pipe`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The European redwing. [Prov. Eng.]

SWINE-POX
Swine"-pox`, n. (Med.)

Defn: A variety of the chicken pox, with acuminated vesicles
containing a watery fluid; the water pox. Pepys.

SWINERY
Swin"er*y, n.

Defn: Same as Piggery. [R.]

SWINESTONE
Swine"stone`, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Stinkstone.

SWINESTY
Swine"sty`, n.

Defn: A sty, or pen, for swine.

SWING
Swing, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Swung; Archaic imp. Swang; p. pr. & vb. n.
Swinging.] Etym: [OE. swingen, AS. swingan to scourge, to fly, to
flutter; akin to G. schwingen to winnow, to swingle, oscillate, sich
schwingen to leap, to soar, OHG. swingan to throw, to scourge, to
soar, Sw. svinga to swing, to whirl, Dan. svinge. Cf. Swagger, Sway,
Swinge, Swink.]

1. To move to and fro, as a body suspended in the air; to wave; to
vibrate; to oscillate.
I tried if a pendulum would swing faster, or continue swinging
longer, in case of exsuction of the air. Boyle.

2. To sway or move from one side or direction to another; as, the
door swung open.

3. To use a swing; as, a boy swings for exercise or pleasure. See
Swing, n., 3.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: To turn round by action of wind or tide when at anchor; as, a
ship swings with the tide.

5. To be hanged. [Colloq.] D. Webster. To swing round the circle, to
make a complete circuit. [Colloq.]
He had swung round the circle of theories and systems in which his
age abounded, without finding relief. A. V. G. Allen.

SWING
Swing, v. t.

1. To cause to swing or vibrate; to cause to move backward and
forward, or from one side to the other.
He swings his tail, and swiftly turns his round. Dryden.
They get on ropes, as you must have seen the children, and are swung
by their men visitants. Spectator.

2. To give a circular movement to; to whirl; to brandish; as, to
swing a sword; to swing a club; hence, colloquially, to manage; as,
to swing a business.

3. (Mach.)

Defn: To admit or turn (anything) for the purpose of shaping it; --
said of a lathe; as, the lathe can swing a pulley of 12 inches
diameter. To swing a door, gate, etc. (Carp.), to put it on hinges so
that it can swing or turn.

SWING
Swing, n.

1. The act of swinging; a waving, oscillating, or vibratory motion of
a hanging or pivoted object; oscillation; as, the swing of a
pendulum.

2. Swaying motion from one side or direction to the other; as, some
men walk with a swing.

3. A line, cord, or other thing suspended and hanging loose, upon
which anything may swing; especially, an apparatus for recreation by
swinging, commonly consisting of a rope, the two ends of which are
attached overhead, as to the bough of a tree, a seat being placed in
the loop at the bottom; also, any contrivance by which a similar
motion is produced for amusement or exercise.

4. Influence of power of a body put in swaying motion.
The ram that batters down the wall, For the great swing and rudeness
of his poise, They place before his hand that made the engine. Shak.

5. Capacity of a turning lathe, as determined by the diameter of the
largest object that can be turned in it.

6. Free course; unrestrained liberty or license; tendency. "Take thy
swing." Dryden.
To prevent anything which may prove an obstacle to the full swing of
his genius. Burke.
Full swing. See under Full.
 -- Swing beam (Railway Mach.), a crosspiece sustaining the car body,
and so suspended from the framing of a truck that it may have an
independent lateral motion.
 -- Swing bridge, a form of drawbridge which swings horizontally, as
on a vertical pivot.
 -- Swing plow, or Swing plough. (a) A plow without a fore wheel
under the beam. (b) A reversible or sidehill plow.
 -- Swing wheel. (a) The scape-wheel in a clock, which drives the
pendulum. (b) The balance of a watch.

SWINGDEVIL
Swing"dev`il, n. (Zool.) Etym: [So named from its swift flight and
dark color, which give it an uncanny appearance.]

Defn: The European swift. [Prov. Eng.]

SWINGE
Swinge (swinj), v. & n.

Defn: See Singe. [Obs.] Spenser.

SWINGE
Swinge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swinged (swinjd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Swingeing (swinj"ing).] Etym: [OE. swengen, AS. swengan to shake,
causative of swingan. See Swing.]

1. To beat soundly; to whip; to chastise; to punish.
I had swinged him soundly. Shak.
And swinges his own vices in his son. C. Dryden.

2. To move as a lash; to lash. [Obs.]
Swinges the scaly horror of his folded tail. Milton.

SWINGE
Swinge, n.

1. The sweep of anything in motion; a swinging blow; a swing. [Obs.]
Waller.

2. Power; sway; influence. [Obs.]

SWINGEBUCKLER
Swinge"buc`kler, n.

Defn: A swashbuckler; a bully; a roiserer. [Obs.] Shak.

SWINGEING
Swinge"ing, a.

Defn: Huge; very large. [Colloq.] Arbuthnot. Byron.
 -- Swinge"ing*ly, adv. Dryden.

SWINGEL
Swin"gel, n. Etym: [AS. swingele whip, scourge. See Swing.]

Defn: The swinging part of a flail which falls on the grain in
thrashing; the swiple.

SWINGER
Swing"er, n.

Defn: One who swings or whirls.

SWINGER
Swin"ger, n.

1. One who swinges.

2. Anything very large, forcible; or astonishing. [Obs. or Colloq.]
Herrick.

Defn: A person who engages frequently in lively and fashionable
pursuits, such as attending night clubs or discos. 4. A person who
engages freely in sexual intercourse.

SWINGLE
Swin"gle, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of swing.]

1. To dangle; to wave hanging. [Obs.] Johnson.

2. To swing for pleasure. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SWINGLE
Swin"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swingled; p. pr. & vb. n. Swingling.]
Etym: [See Swingel.]

1. To clean, as flax, by beating it with a swingle, so as to separate
the coarse parts and the woody substance from it; to scutch.

2. To beat off the tops of without pulling up the roots; -- said of
weeds. [Prov. Eng.] Forby.

SWINGLE
Swin"gle, n.

Defn: A wooden instrument like a large knife, about two feet long,
with one thin edge, used for beating and cleaning flax; a scutcher; -
- called also swingling knife, swingling staff, and swingling wand.

SWINGLEBAR
Swin"gle*bar`, n.

Defn: A swingletree. De Quincey.

SWINGLETAIL
Swin"gle*tail`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The thrasher, or fox shark. See Thrasher.

SWINGLETREE
Swin"gle*tree`, n. Etym: [So named in allusion to its swinging. See
Swingle, v. i., and cf. Swingtree.]

Defn: A whiffletree, or whippletree. See Singletree.

SWINGLING
Swin"gling, a. & n.

Defn: from Swingle, v. t. Swingling tow, the coarse part of flax,
separated from the finer by swingling and hatcheling.

SWINGTREE
Swing"tree`, n.

Defn: The bar of a carriage to which the traces are fastened; the
whiffletree.

SWINISH
Swin"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to swine; befitting swine; like swine;
hoggish; gross; beasty; as, a swinish drunkard or sot. "Swinish
gluttony." Milton.
 -- Swin"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Swin"ish*ness, n.

SWINK
Swink, v. i. [imp. Swank, Swonk (; p. p. Swonken; p. pr. & vb. n.
Swinking.] Etym: [AS. swincan, akin to swingan. See Swing.]

Defn: To labor; to toil; to salve. [Obs. or Archaic]
Or swink with his hands and labor. Chaucer.
For which men swink and sweat incessantly. Spenser.
The swinking crowd at every stroke pant "Ho." Sir Samuel Freguson.

SWINK
Swink, v. t.

1. To cause to toil or drudge; to tire or exhaust with labor. [Obs.]
And the swinked hedger at his supper sat. Milton.

2. To acquire by labor. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.
To devour all that others swink. Chaucer.

SWINK
Swink, n. Etym: [As. swinc, geswinc.]

Defn: Labor; toil; drudgery. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

SWINKER
Swink"er, n.

Defn: A laborer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWINNEY
Swin"ney, n. (Far.)

Defn: See Sweeny.

SWIPE
Swipe, n. Etym: [Cf. Sweep, Swiple.]

1. A swape or sweep. See Sweep.

2. A strong blow given with a sweeping motion, as with a bat or club.
Swipes [in cricket] over the blower's head, and over either of the
long fields. R. A. Proctor.

3. pl.

Defn: Poor, weak beer; small beer. [Slang, Eng.] [Written also
swypes.] Craig.

SWIPE
Swipe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swiped; p. pr. & vb. n. Swiping.]

1. To give a swipe to; to strike forcibly with a sweeping motion, as
a ball.
Loose balls may be swiped almost ad libitum. R. A. Proctor.

2. To pluck; to snatch; to steal. [Slang, U.S.]

SWIPLE
Swi"ple, n. Etym: [See Swipe.]

Defn: That part of a flail which strikes the grain in thrashing; a
swingel. [Written also swipel, and swipple.]

SWIPPER
Swip"per, a. Etym: [From AS. swipian to whip, shake, whirl; akin to
swapan to sweep. See Swoop.]

Defn: Nimble; quick. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Slang]

SWIRL
Swirl, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Swirled; p. pr. & vb. n. Swirling.]
Etym: [Akin to Norw. svirla to whirl, freq. of sverra to whirl, Dan.
svirre, G. schwirren to whiz, to buzz. *177. See Swarm, n.]

Defn: To whirl, or cause to whirl, as in an eddy. "The river swirled
along." C. Kingsley.

SWIRL
Swirl, n.

Defn: A whirling motion; an eddy, as of water; a whirl. "The silent
swirl of bats." Mrs. Browning.

SWISH
Swish, v. t. Etym: [From the sound. Cf. Swash.]

1. To flourish, so as to make the sound swish. Coleridge.

2. To flog; to lash. [Slang] Thackeray.

SWISH
Swish, v. i.

Defn: To dash; to swash.

SWISH
Swish, n.

1. A sound of quick movement, as of something whirled through the
air. [Colloq.]

2. (Naut.)

Defn: Light driven spray. [Eng.]

SWISS
Swiss, n.sing. & pl. Etym: [F. Suisse, of German origin. Cf.
Switzer.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Switzer; the people of
Switzerland.

SWISS
Swiss, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Switzerland, or the people of Switzerland.

SWITCH
Switch, n. Etym: [Cf. OD. swick a scourage, a whip. Cf. Swink,
Swing.]

1. A small, flexible twig or rod.
Mauritania, on the fifth medal, leads a horse with something like a
thread; in her other hand she holds a switch. Addison.

2. (Railways)

Defn: A movable part of a rail; or of opposite rails, for
transferring cars from one track to another.

3. A separate mass or trees of hair, or of some substance (at jute)
made to resemble hair, worn on the head by women.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: A mechanical device for shifting an electric current to another
circuit. Safety switch (Railways), a form of switch contrived to
prevent or lessen the danger of derailment of trains.
 -- Switch back (Railways), an arrangement of tracks whereby
elevations otherwise insurmountable are passed. The track ascends by
a series of zigzags, the engine running alternately forward and back,
until the summit is reached.
 -- Switch board (Elec.), a collection of switches in one piece of
apparatus, so arranged that a number of circuits may be connected or
combined in any desired manner.
 -- Switch grass. (Bot.) See under Grass.

SWITCH
Switch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Switched; p. pr. & vb. n. Switching.]

1. To strike with a switch or small flexible rod; to whip. Chapman.

2. To swing or whisk; as, to switch a cane.

3. To trim, as, a hedge. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

4. To turn from one railway track to another; to transfer by a
switch; -- generally with off, from, etc.; as, to switch off a train;
to switch a car from one track to another.

5. (Eccl.)

Defn: To shift to another circuit.

SWITCH
Switch, v. i.

Defn: To walk with a jerk. [Prov. Eng.]

SWITCHEL
Switch"el, n. Etym: [See Sweet.]

Defn: A beverage of molasses and water, seasoned with vinegar and
ginger. [U. S.]

SWITCHING
Switch"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Switch, v. Switching engine, a locomotive for switching
cars from one track to another, and making up trains; -- called also
switch engine. [U.S.]

SWITCHMAN
Switch"man, n.; pl. Switchmen (.

Defn: One who tends a switch on a railway.

SWITCHY
Switch"y, a.

Defn: Whisking. [Colloq.] Coombe.

SWITHE
Swithe, adv. Etym: [AS. swi strongly, violently.]

Defn: Instantly; quickly; speedily; rapidly. [Obs.]
That thou doest, do thou swithe. Wyclif (John xiii. 27).

SWITZER
Switz"er, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schweizer. Cf. Swiss.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Switzerland; a Swiss.

SWIVE
Swive, v. t. Etym: [OE. swiven, fr. AS. swifan. See Swivel.]

Defn: To copulate with (a woman). [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWIVEL
Swiv"el, n. Etym: [AS. swifan to move quickly, to remove; akin to
Icel. sveifla to whirl, shake, svifa to ramble, to turn. See Swoop,
and cf. Swift a reel, Swift, a.]

1. (Mech.)

Defn: A piece, as a ring or hook, attached to another piece by a pin,
in such a manner as to permit rotation about the pin as an axis.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A small piece of ordnance, turning on a point or swivel; --
called also swivel gun. Wilhelm. Swivel bridge, a kind of drawbridge
that turns round on a vertical axis; a swing bridge.
 -- Swivel hook, a hook connected with the iron strap of a pulley
block by a swivel joint, for readily taking the turns out of a
tackle.
 -- Swivel joint, a joint, the two pieces composing which turn round,
with respect to each other, on a longitudinal pin or axis, as in a
chain, to prevent twisting.

SWIVEL
Swiv"el, v. i.

Defn: To swing or turn, as on a pin or pivot.

SWIVEL-EYED
Swiv"el-eyed`, a.

Defn: Squint-eyed. [Prov. Eng.]

SWIZZLE
Swiz"zle, v. t.

Defn: To drink; to swill. Halliwell.

SWIZZLE
Swiz"zle, n.

Defn: Ale and beer mixed; also, drink generally. [Prov. Eng.]

SWOB
Swob, n. & v.

Defn: See Swab.

SWOBBER
Swob"ber, n.

1. See Swabber.

2. pl.

Defn: Four privileged cards, formerly used in betting at the game of
whist. [Written also swabber.] Swift.

SWOLLEN
Swoll"en,

Defn: p. p. of Swell.

SWOLLEN
Swoll"en, a.

Defn: Enlarged by swelling; immoderately increased; as, swollen eyes;
swollen streams.

SWOLN
Swoln.

Defn: Contraction of Swollen, p. p. Milton.

SWOM
Swom, obs.

Defn: imp. of Swim. Shak.

SWOON
Swoon, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Swooned; p. pr. & vb. n. Swooning.] Etym:
[OE. swounen, swoghenen, for swo, fr. swo to sigh deeply, to droop,
AS. swogan to sough, sigh; cf. geswogen senseless, swooned, geswowung
a swooning. Cf. Sough.]

Defn: To sink into a fainting fit, in which there is an apparent
suspension of the vital functions and mental powers; to faint; --
often with away.
The sucklings swoon in the streets of the city. Lam. ii. 11.
The most in years . . . swooned first away for pain. Dryden.
He seemed ready to swoon away in the surprise of joy. Tatler.

SWOON
Swoon, n.

Defn: A fainting fit; syncope.

SWOONING
Swoon"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Swoon, v.
 -- Swoon"ing*ly, adv.

SWOOP
Swoop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Swooped; p. pr. & vb. n. Swooping.] Etym:
[OE. swopen, usually, to sweep, As. swapan to sweep, to rush; akin to
G. schweifen to rove, to ramble, to curve, OHG. sweifan to whirl,
Icel. sveipa to sweep; also to AS. swifan to move quickly. Cf. Sweep,
Swift, a. & n., Swipe, Swivel.]

1. To fall on at once and seize; to catch while on the wing; as, a
hawk swoops a chicken.

2. To seize; to catch up; to take with a sweep.
And now at last you came to swoop it all. Dryden.
The grazing ox which swoops it [the medicinal herb] in with the
common grass. Glanvill.

SWOOP
Swoop, v. i.

1. To descend with closed wings from a height upon prey, as a hawk;
to swoop.

2. To pass with pomp; to sweep. [Obs.] Drayton.

SWOOP
Swoop, n.

Defn: A falling on and seizing, as the prey of a rapacious bird; the
act of swooping.
The eagle fell, . . . and carried away a whole litter of cubs at a
swoop. L'Estrange.

SWOOPSTAKE
Swoop"stake`, n.

Defn: See Sweepstake. [Obs.]

SWOOPSTAKE
Swoop"stake`, adv.

Defn: Altogether; indiscriminately. [R.] Shak.

SWOP
Swop, v. & n.

Defn: Same as Swap. Dryden.

SWORD
Sword, n. Etym: [OE. swerd, AS. sweord; akin to OFries. swerd, swird,
D. zwaard, OS. swerd, OHG. swert, G. schwert, Icel. sver, Sw. svard,
Dan. sv?rd; of uncertain origin.]

1. An offensive weapon, having a long and usually sharp

2. Hence, the emblem of judicial vengeance or punishment, or of
authority and power.
He [the ruler] beareth not the sword in vain. Rom. xiii. 4.
She quits the balance, and resigns the sword. Dryden.

3. Destruction by the sword, or in battle; war; dissension.
I came not to send peace, but a sword. Matt. x. 34.

4. The military power of a country.
He hath no more authority over the sword than over the law. Milton.

5. (Weaving)

Defn: One of the end bars by which the lay of a hand loom is
suspended. Sword arm, the right arm.
 -- Sword bayonet, a bayonet shaped somewhat like a sword, and which
can be used as a sword.
 -- Sword bearer, one who carries his master's sword; an officer in
London who carries a sword before the lord mayor when he goes abroad.
 -- Sword belt, a belt by which a sword is suspended, and borne at
the side.
 -- Sword blade, the blade, or cutting part, of a sword.
 -- Sword cane, a cane which conceals the blade of a sword or dagger,
as in a sheath.
 -- Sword dance. (a) A dance in which swords are brandished and
clashed together by the male dancers. Sir W. Scott. (b) A dance
performed over swords laid on the ground, but without touching them.
 -- Sword fight, fencing; a combat or trial of skill with swords;
swordplay.
 -- Sword grass. (Bot.) See Gladen.
 -- Sword knot, a ribbon tied to the hilt of a sword.
 -- Sword law, government by the sword, or by force; violence.
Milton.
 -- Sword lily. (Bot.) See Gladiolus.
 -- Sword mat (Naut.), a mat closely woven of yarns; -- so called
from a wooden implement used in its manufacture.
 -- Sword shrimp (Zool.), a European shrimp (Pasiph?a sivado) having
a very thin, compressed body.
 -- Sword stick, a sword cane.
 -- To measure swords with one. See under Measure, v. t.
 -- To put to the sword. See under Put.

SWORDBILL
Sword"bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A humming bird (Docimastes ensiferus) having a very long,
slender bill, exceeding the length of the body of the bird.

SWORDED
Sword"ed, a. Etym: [Cf. AS. geswurdod.]

Defn: Girded with a sword. Milton.

SWORDER
Sword"er, n.

Defn: One who uses, or fights with, a sword; a swordsman; a soldier;
a cutthroat. [Obs.] Shak.

SWORDFISH
Sword"fish`, n.

1. (Zool.)
(a) A very large oceanic fish (Xiphias gladius), the only
representative of the family Xiphiid?. It is highly valued as a food
fish. The bones of the upper jaw are consolidated, and form a long,
rigid, swordlike beak; the dorsal fin is high and without distinct
spines; the ventral fins are absent. The adult is destitute of teeth.
It becomes sixteen feet or more long.
(b) The ger pike.
(c) The cutlass fish.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A southern constellation. See Dorado, 1. Swordfish sucker
(Zool.), a remora (Remora brachyptera) which attaches itself to the
swordfish.

SWORDICK
Sword"ick, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The spotted gunnel (Mur?noides gunnellus). [Prov. Eng.]

SWORDING
Sword"ing, n.

Defn: Slashing with a sword. Tennyson.

SWORDLESS
Sword"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a sword.

SWORDMAN
Sword"man, n.; pl. Swordmen (.

Defn: A swordsman. "Sinewy swordmen." Shak.

SWORDPLAY
Sword"play`, n.

Defn: Fencing; a sword fight.

SWORDPLAYER
Sword"play`er, n.

Defn: A fencer; a gladiator; one who exhibits his skill in the use of
the sword.

SWORD-SHAPED
Sword"-shaped`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a sword; ensiform, as the long, flat leaves of the
Iris, cattail, and the like.

SWORDSMAN
Swords"man, n.; pl. Swordsmen (.

1. A soldier; a fighting man.

2. One skilled of a use of the sword; a professor of the science of
fencing; a fencer.

SWORDSMANSHIP
Swords"man*ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a swordsman; skill in the use of the sword.
Cowper.

SWORDTAIL
Sword"tail`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The limulus.
(b) Any hemipterous insect of the genus Uroxiphus, found upon forest
trees.

SWORE
Swore,

Defn: imp. of Swear.

SWORN
Sworn,

Defn: p. p. of Swear. Sworn brothers, originally, companions in arms
who took an oath to share together good and bad fortune; hence,
faithful friends.
 -- Sworn enemies, determined or irreconcilable enemies.
 -- Sworn friends, close friends.

SWOUGH
Swough, n. Etym: [See Swoon.]

1. A sound; a groan; a moan; a sough. [Obs.]
He sigheth with full many a sorry swough. Chaucer.

2. A swoon. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWOUND
Swound, v. & n.

Defn: See Swoon, v. & n. [Prov. Eng. or Archaic] Shak. Dryden.
The landlord stirred As one awaking from a swound. Longfellow.

'SWOUNDS
'Swounds, interj. Etym: [Cf. Zounds.]

Defn: An exclamation contracted from God's wounds; -- used as an
oath. [Obs. or Archaic] Shak.

SWOWN
Swown, v. & n.

Defn: Swoon. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SWUM
Swum,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Swim.

SWUNG
Swung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Swing.

SWYTHE
Swythe, adv.

Defn: Quickly. See Swithe. [Obs.]

SY
Sy, obs. imp. of See.

Defn: Saw. Chaucer.

SYB
Syb, a.

Defn: See Sib. [Obs. or Scot.]

SYBARITE
Syb"a*rite, n. Etym: [L. Sybarita, Gr. Sybarite.]

Defn: A person devoted to luxury and pleasure; a voluptuary.

SYBARITIC; SYBARITICAL
Syb`a*rit"ic, Syb`a*rit"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Sybariticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Sybarites; resembling the Sybarites;
luxurious; wanton; effeminate. "Sybaritic dinners." Bp. Warburton.
"Sybaritical cloistres." Bp. Hall.

SYBARITISM
Syb"a*rit*ism, n.

Defn: Luxuriousness; effeminacy; wantonness; voluptuousness.

SYCAMINE
Syc"a*mine, n. Etym: [L. sycaminus, Gr.

Defn: See Sycamore.

SYCAMORE
Syc"a*more, n. Etym: [L. sycomorus, Gr. sycomore. Cf. Mulberry.]
(Bot.)
(a) A large tree (Ficus Sycomorus) allied to the common fig. It is
found in Egypt and Syria, and is the sycamore, or sycamine, of
Scripture.
(b) The American plane tree, or buttonwood.
(c) A large European species of maple (Acer Pseudo-Platanus).
[Written sometimes sycomore.]

SYCE
Syce, n. Etym: [Ar. sa\'8bs.]

Defn: A groom. [India]

SYCEE
Sy*cee", n. Etym: [Said to be from a Chinese word, se-tze or se-sze,
meaning, fine silk, and to be so called because if pure it may be
drawn out into fine threads.]

Defn: Silver, pounded into ingots of the shape of a shoe, and used as
currency. The most common weight is about one pound troy. [China]
McElrath.

SYCHNOCARPOUS
Sych`no*car"pous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the capacity of bearing several successive crops of
fruit without perishing; as, sychnocarpous plants.

SYCITE
Sy"cite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A nodule of flint, or a pebble, which resembles a fig. [Obs.]

SYCOCERIC
Syc`o*cer"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained by the
oxidation of sycoceryl alcohol.

SYCOCERYL
Syc`o*ce"ryl, n. Etym: [Gr. -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A radical, of the aromatic series, regarded as an essential
ingredient of certain compounds found in the waxy resin of an
Australian species of fig.

SYCOCK
Sy"cock, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.]

SYCONES
Sy*co"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of calcareous sponges.

Note: They usually resemble a fig, being vase-shaped with a fringed
opening at the summit. The feeding cells are in ampull? connected
with radial tubes in the thickened walls of the body.

SYCONIUM; SYCONUS
Sy*co"ni*um, Sy*co"nus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A collective fleshy fruit, in which the ovaries are hidden
within a hollow receptacle, as in the fig.

SYCOPHANCY
Syc"o*phan*cy, n. Etym: [Cf. L. sycophantia deceit, Gr.

Defn: The character or characteristic of a sycophant. Hence: -
(a) False accusation; calumniation; talebearing. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.
(b) Obsequious flattery; servility.
The sycophancy of A.Philips had prejudiced Mr. Addison against Pope.
Bp. Warburton.

SYCOPHANT
Syc"o*phant, n. Etym: [L. sycophanta a slanderer, deceiver, parasite,
Gr. sycophante. The reason for the name is not certainly known. See
Phenomenon.]

1. An informer; a talebearer. [Obs.] "Accusing sycophants, of all
men, did best sort to his nature." Sir P. Sidney.

2. A base parasite; a mean or servile flatterer; especially, a
flatterer of princes and great men.
A sycophant will everything admire: Each verse, each sentence, sets
his soul on fire. Dryden.

SYCOPHANT
Syc"o*phant, v. t. Etym: [CF. L. sycophantari to deceive, to trick,
Gr.

1. To inform against; hence, to calumniate. [Obs.]
Sycophanting and misnaming the work of his adversary. Milton.

2. To play the sycophant toward; to flatter obsequiously.

SYCOPHANT
Syc"o*phant, v. i.

Defn: To play the sycophant.

SYCOPHANTCY
Syc"o*phant*cy, n.

Defn: Sycophancy. [Obs.]

SYCOPHANTIC; SYCOPHANTICAL
Syc`o*phan"tic, Syc`o*phan"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sycophant; characteristic of a sycophant;
meanly or obsequiously flattering; courting favor by mean adulation;
parasitic.
To be cheated and ruined by a sycophantical parasite. South.
Sycophantic servants to the King of Spain. De Quincey.

SYCOPHANTISH
Syc"o*phant`ish, a.

Defn: Like a sycophant; obsequiously flattering.
 -- Syc"o*phant`ish*ly, adv.
Sycophantish satirists that forever humor the prevailing folly. De
Quincey.

SYCOPHANTISM
Syc"o*phant*ism, n.

Defn: Sycophancy.

SYCOPHANTIZE
Syc"o*phant*ize, v. i.

Defn: To play the sycophant.

SYCOPHANTRY
Syc"o*phant*ry, n.

Defn: Sycophancy. [Obs.]

SYCOSIS
Sy*co"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A pustular eruption upon the scalp, or the beared part of the
face, whether due to ringworm, acne, or impetigo.

SYDEROLITE
Syd"er*o*lite, n.

Defn: A kind of Bohemian earthenware resembling the Wedgwood ware.

SYE
Sye, obs. imp. of See.

Defn: Saw. Chaucer.

SYENITE
Sy"e*nite, n. Etym: [L. Syenites (sc. lapis), from Syene, Gr. (Min.)
(a) Orig., a rock composed of quartz, hornblende, and feldspar,
anciently quarried at Syene, in Upper Egypt, and now called granite.
(b) A granular, crystalline, ingeous rock composed of orthoclase and
hornblende, the latter often replaced or accompanied by pyroxene or
mica. Syenite sometimes contains nephelite (el?olite) or leucite, and
is then called nephelite (el?olite) syenite or leucite syenite.

SYENITIC
Sy`e*nit"ic, a. Etym: [Written also sienitic.]

1. Relating to Syene; as, Syenitic inscriptions.

2. Relating to, or like, syenite; as, syenitic granite.

SYKE
Syke, n. & v.

Defn: See Sike. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SYKER
Syk"er, a. & adv.

Defn: See Sicker. [Obs.]

SYLE
Syle, n. Etym: [See Sile a young herring.] (Zool.)

Defn: A young herring (Clupea harengus). [Also written sile.]
But our folk call them syle, and nought but syle, And when they're
grown, why then we call them herring. J. Ingelow.

SYLLABARIUM
Syl`la*ba"ri*um, n.; pl. Syllabaria. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A syllabary.

SYLLABARY
Syl"la*ba*ry, n.

Defn: A table of syllables; more especially, a table of the
indivisible syllabic symbols used in certain languages, as the
Japanese and Cherokee, instead of letters. S. W. Williams.

SYLLABE
Syl"labe, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Syllable. [R.] B. Jonson.

SYLLABIC; SYLLABICAL
Syl*lab"ic, Syl*lab"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. syllabique.]

1. Of or pertaining to a syllable or syllables; as, syllabic accent.

2. Consisting of a syllable or syllables; as, a syllabic augment.
"The syllabic stage of writing." Earle.

SYLLABICALLY
Syl*lab"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a syllabic manner.

SYLLABICATE
Syl*lab"i*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Syllabicated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Syllabicating.]

Defn: To form or divide into syllables; to syllabify.

SYLLABICATION
Syl*lab`i*ca"tion, n.

Defn: The act of forming syllables; the act or method of dividing
words into syllables. See Guide to Pron., 275.

SYLLABIFICATION
Syl*lab`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See Syllabify.]

Defn: Same as Syllabication. Rush.
Syllabification depends not on mere force, but on discontinuity of
force. H. Sweet.

SYLLABIFY
Syl*lab"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Syllabified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Syllabifying.] Etym: [L. syllaba syllable + -fy.]

Defn: To form or divide into syllables.

SYLLABISM
Syl"la*bism, n.

Defn: The expressing of the sounds of a language by syllables, rather
than by an alphabet or by signs for words. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).

SYLLABIST
Syl"la*bist, n.

Defn: One who forms or divides words into syllables, or is skilled in
doing this.

SYLLABIZE
Syl"la*bize, v. t.

Defn: To syllabify. Howell.

SYLLABLE
Syl"la*ble, n. Etym: [OE. sillable, OF. sillabe, F. syllabe, L.
syllaba, Gr. labh, rabh. Cf. Lemma, Dilemma.]

1. An elementary sound, or a combination of elementary sounds,
uttered together, or with a single effort or impulse of the voice,
and constituting a word or a part of a word. In other terms, it is a
vowel or a diphtong, either by itself or flanked by one or more
consonants, the whole produced by a single impulse or utterance. One
of the liquids, l, m, n, may fill the place of a vowel in a syllable.
Adjoining syllables in a word or phrase need not to be marked off by
a pause, but only by such an abatement and renewal, or reenforcement,
of the stress as to give the feeling of separate impulses. See Guide
to Pronunciation, 275.

2. In writing and printing, a part of a word, separated from the
rest, and capable of being pronounced by a single impulse of the
voice. It may or may not correspond to a syllable in the spoken
language.
Withouten vice [i. e. mistake] of syllable or letter. Chaucer.

3. A small part of a sentence or discourse; anything concise or
short; a particle.
Before any syllable of the law of God was written. Hooker.
Who dare speak One syllable against him Shak.

SYLLABLE
Syl"la*ble, v. t.

Defn: To pronounce the syllables of; to utter; to articulate. Milton.

SYLLABUB
Syl"la*bub, n.

Defn: Same as Syllabub.

SYLLABUS
Syl"la*bus, n.; pl. E. Syllabuses, L. Syllabi. Etym: [L., fr. the
same source as E. syllable.]

Defn: A compendium containing the heads of a discourse, and the like;
an abstract.

SYLLEPSIS
Syl*lep"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. sy`llhpsis a taking together, from
syllable, n.]

1. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech by which a word is used in a literal and
metaphorical sense at the same time.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: The agreement of a verb or adjective with one, rather than
another, of two nouns, with either of which it might agree in gender,
number, etc.; as, rex et regina beati.

SYLLEPTIC; SYLLEPTICAL
Syl*lep"tic, Syl*lep"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a syllepsis; containing syllepsis.
 -- Syl*lep"tic*al*ly, adv.

SYLLIDIAN
Syl*lid"i*an, n. Etym: [From NL. Syllis, the typical genus.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family
Syllid?.

Note: Many of the species are phosphorescent; others are remarkable
for undergoing strobilation or fission and for their polymorphism.
The egg, in such species, develops into an asexual individual. When
mature, a number of its posterior segments gradually develop into one
or more sexual individuals which finally break away and swim free in
the sea. The males, females, and neuters usually differ greatly in
form and structure.

SYLLOGISM
Syl"lo*gism, n. Etym: [OE. silogisme, OF. silogime, sillogisme, F.
syllogisme, L. syllogismus, Gr. syllogismo`s a reckoning all
together, a reasoning, syllogism, fr. syllogi`zesqai to reckon all
together, to bring at once before the mind, to infer, conclude; sy`n
with, together + logi`zesqai to reckon, to conclude by reasoning. See
Syn-, and Logistic, Logic.] (Logic)

Defn: The regular logical form of every argument, consisting of three
propositions, of which the first two are called the premises, and the
last, the conclusion. The conclusion necessarily follows from the
premises; so that, if these are true, the conclusion must be true,
and the argument amounts to demonstration;

Note: as in the following example: Every virtue is laudable; Kindness
is a virtue; Therefore kindness is laudable. These propositions are
denominated respectively the major premise, the minor premise, and
the conclusion.

Note: If the premises are not true and the syllogism is regular, the
reasoning is valid, and the conclusion, whether true or false, is
correctly derived.

SYLLOGISTIC; SYLLOGISTICAL
Syl`lo*gis"tic, Syl`lo*gis"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. syllogisticus, Gr.
syllogistique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a syllogism; consisting of a syllogism, or
of the form of reasoning by syllogisms; as, syllogistic arguments or
reasoning.

SYLLOGISTICALLY
Syl`lo*gis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a syllogistic manner.

SYLLOGIZATION
Syl`lo*gi*za"tion, n.

Defn: A reasoning by syllogisms. [Obs. or R.] Harris.

SYLLOGIZE
Syl"lo*gize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Syllogized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Syllogizing.] Etym: [Gr. syllogiser.]

Defn: To reason by means of syllogisms.
Men have endeavored . . . to teach boys to syllogize, or frame
arguments and refute them, without any real inward knowledge of the
question. I. Watts.

SYLLOGIZER
Syl"lo*gi`zer, n.

Defn: One who syllogizes.

SYLPH
Sylph, n. Etym: [F. sylphe, m., fr. Gr.

1. An imaginary being inhabiting the air; a fairy.

2. Fig.: A slender, graceful woman.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of very brilliant South American
humming birds, having a very long and deeply-forked tail; as, the
blue-tailed sylph (Cynanthus cyanurus).

SYLPHID
Sylph"id, n. Etym: [F. sylphide, fem. See Sylph.]

Defn: A little sylph; a young or diminutive sylph. "The place of the
sylphid queen." J. R. Drake.
Ye sylphs and sylphids, to your chief give ear, Fays, fairies, genii,
elves, and demons, hear. Pope.

SYLPHINE
Sylph"ine, a.

Defn: Like a sylph.

SYLPHISH
Sylph"ish, a.

Defn: Sylphlike. Carlyle.

SYLPHLIKE
Sylph"like`, a.

Defn: Like a sylph; airy; graceful.
Sometimes a dance . . . Displayed some sylphlike figures in its maze.
Byron.

SYLVA
Syl"va, n.; pl. Sylv?. Etym: [L. sylva, better silva, a wood. See
Silva.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Silva.

SYLVAN
Syl"van, a. Etym: [See Silvan, a.]

1. Of or pertaining to a sylva; forestlike; hence, rural; rustic.
The traditional memory of a rural and a sylvan region . . . is
usually exact as well as tenacious. De Quincey.

2. Abounding in forests or in trees; woody.

SYLVAN
Syl"van, n. Etym: [L. Sylvanus, better Silvanus. See Silvan, a.]

Defn: A fabled deity of the wood; a satyr; a faun; sometimes, a
rustic.
Her private orchards, walled on every side, To lawless sylvans all
access denied. Pope.

SYLVAN
Syl"van, n. Etym: [Sylva + furfuran.] (Chem.)

Defn: A liquid hydrocarbon obtained together with furfuran (tetrol)
by the distillation of pine wood; -- called also methyl tetrol, or
methyl furfuran.

SYLVANITE
Syl"van*ite, n. Etym: [So called from Transylvania, where it was
first found.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral, a telluride of gold and silver, of a steel-gray,
silver-white, or brass-yellow color. It often occurs in implanted
crystals resembling written characters, and hence is called graphic
tellurium. [Written also silvanite.]

SYLVANIUM
Syl*va"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., so called from Transylvania, where it
was first found.] (Chem.)

Defn: An old name for tellurium. [Written also silvanium.]

SYLVATE
Syl"vate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sylvic acid.

SYLVATIC
Syl*vat"ic, a. Etym: [L. sylvaticus, better silvaticus. See Silvan,
a.]

Defn: Sylvan. [R.]

SYLVESTRIAN
Syl*ves"tri*an, a. Etym: [L. sylvestris, better silvestris.]

Defn: Sylvan. [R.]

SYLVIC
Syl"vic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, pine or its products;
specifically, designating an acid called also abeitic acid, which is
the chief ingredient of common resin (obtained from Pinus sylvestris,
and other species).

SYLVICOLINE
Syl*vic"o*line, a. Etym: [L. sylva, silva, forest + colere to
inhabit.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family of warblers (Sylvicolid?). See
Warbler.

SYLVICULTURE
Syl"vi*cul`ture, n. Etym: [L. sylva, silva, forest + E. culture.]

Defn: The cultivation of forest trees for timber or other purposes;
forestry; arboriculture.

SYLVICULTURIST
Syl`vi*cul"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One who cultivates forest trees, especially as a business.

SYLVINE; SYLVITE
Syl"vine, Syl"vite, n. Etym: [So called from NL. sal digestivus
sylvii potassium chloride.] (Min.)

Defn: Native potassium chloride.

SYM-
Sym-.

Defn: See Syn-.

SYMAR; SYMARR
Sy*mar", Sy"marr, n.

Defn: See Simar.

SYMBAL
Sym"bal, n.

Defn: See Cimbal. [Obs.]

SYMBIOSIS
Sym`bi*o"sis, n. [NL., fr. Gr.  a living together,  to live together;
with +  to live.] (Biol.)

Defn: The living together in more or less imitative association or
even close union of two dissimilar organisms. In a broad sense the
term includes parasitism, or antagonistic, or antipathetic,
symbiosis, in which the association is disadvantageous or destructive
to one of the organisms, but ordinarily it is used of cases where the
association is advantageous, or often necessary, to one or both, and
not harmful to either. When there is bodily union (in extreme cases
so close that the two form practically a single body, as in the union
of alg? and fungi to form lichens, and in the inclusion of alg? in
radiolarians) it is called conjunctive symbiosis; if there is no
actual union of the organisms (as in the association of ants with
myrmecophytes), disjunctive symbiosis.

SYMBIOTIC
Sym`bi*ot"ic, a. [Gr. .] (Biol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, or living in, a state of
symbiosis. -- Sym`bi*ot"ic*al (#), a. -- Sym`bi*ot"ic*al*ly (#), adv.

SYMBOL
Sym"bol, n. Etym: [L. symbolus, symbolum, Gr. symbole. Cf. Emblem,
Parable.]

1. A visible sign or representation of an idea; anything which
suggests an idea or quality, or another thing, as by resemblance or
by convention; an emblem; a representation; a type; a figure; as, the
lion is the symbol of courage; the lamb is the symbol of meekness or
patience.
A symbol is a sign included in the idea which it represents, e.g., an
actual part chosen to represent the whole, or a lower form or species
used as the representative of a higher in the same kind. Coleridge.

2. (Math.)

Defn: Any character used to represent a quantity, an operation, a
relation, or an abbreviation.

Note: In crystallography, the symbol of a plane is the numerical
expression which defines its position relatively to the assumed axes.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: An abstract or compendium of faith or doctrine; a creed, or a
summary of the articles of religion.

4. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: That which is thrown into a common fund; hence, an appointed or
accustomed duty. [Obs.]
They do their work in the days of peace . . . and come to pay their
symbol in a war or in a plague. Jer. Taylor.

5. Share; allotment. [Obs.]
The persons who are to be judged . . . shall all appear to receive
their symbol. Jer. Taylor.

6. (Chem.)

Defn: An abbreviation standing for the name of an element and
consisting of the initial letter of the Latin or New Latin name, or
sometimes of the initial letter with a following one; as, C for
carbon, Na for sodium (Natrium), Fe for iron (Ferrum), Sn for tin
(Stannum), Sb for antimony (Stibium), etc. See the list of names and
symbols under Element.

Note: In pure and organic chemistry there are symbols not only for
the elements, but also for their grouping in formulas, radicals, or
residues, as evidenced by their composition, reactions, synthesis,
etc. See the diagram of Benzene nucleus, under Benzene.

Syn.
 -- Emblem; figure; type. See Emblem.

SYMBOL
Sym"bol, v. t.

Defn: To symbolize. [R.] Tennyson.

SYMBOLIC
Sym*bol"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. symbolique. See Symbolic, a.] (Theol.)

Defn: See Symbolics.

SYMBOLIC; SYMBOLICAL
Sym*bol"ic, Sym*bol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. symbolicus, Gr. symbolique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a symbol or symbols; of the nature of a
symbol; exhibiting or expressing by resemblance or signs;
representative; as, the figure of an eye is symbolic of sight and
knowledge.
 -- Sym*bol"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Sym*bol"ic*al*ness, n.
The sacrament is a representation of Christ's death by such
symbolical actions as he himself appointed. Jer. Taylor.
Symbolical delivery (Law), the delivery of property sold by
delivering something else as a symbol, token, or representative of
it. Bouvier. Chitty.
 -- Symbolical philosophy, the philosophy expressed by hieroglyphics.

SYMBOLICS
Sym*bol"ics, n.

Defn: The study of ancient symbols; esp. (Theol.),

Defn: that branch of historic theology which treats of creeds and
confessions of faith; symbolism; -- called also symbolic.

SYMBOLISM
Sym"bol*ism, n.

1. The act of symbolizing, or the state of being symbolized; as,
symbolism in Christian art is the representation of truth, virtues,
vices, etc., by emblematic colors, signs, and forms.

2. A system of symbols or representations.

3. (Chem.)
(a) The practice of using symbols, or the system of notation
developed thereby.
(b) A combining together of parts or ingredients. [Obs.]

4. (Theol.)

Defn: The science of creeds; symbolics.

SYMBOLIST
Sym"bol*ist, n.

Defn: One who employs symbols.

SYMBOLISTIC; SYMBOLISTICAL
Sym`bol*is"tic, Sym`bol*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Characterized by the use of symbols; as, symbolistic poetry.

SYMBOLIZATION
Sym`bol*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. symbolisation.]

Defn: The act of symbolizing; symbolical representation. Sir T.
Browne.

SYMBOLIZE
Sym"bol*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Symbolized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Symbolizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. symboliser.]

1. To have a resemblance of qualities or properties; to correspond;
to harmonize.
The pleasing of color symbolizeth with the pleasing of any single
tone to the ear; but the pleasing of order doth symbolize with
harmony. Bacon.
They both symbolize in this, that they love to look upon themselves
through multiplying glasses. Howell.

2. To hold the same faith; to agree. [R.]
The believers in pretended miracles have always previously symbolized
with the performers of them. G. S. Faber.

3. To use symbols; to represent ideas symbolically.

SYMBOLIZE
Sym"bol*ize, v. t.

1. To make to agree in properties or qualities.

2. To make representative of something; to regard or treat as
symbolic. "Some symbolize the same from the mystery of its colors."
Sir T. Browne.

3. To represent by a symbol or symbols.

SYMBOLIZER
Sym"bol*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who symbolizes.

SYMBOLOGICAL
Sym`bo*log"i*cal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a symbology; versed in, or characterized by,
symbology.

SYMBOLOGIST
Sym*bol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who practices, or who is versed in, symbology.

SYMBOLOGY
Sym*bol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Symbol + -logy.]

Defn: The art of expressing by symbols.

SYMBRANCHII
Sym*bran"chi*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of slender eel-like fishes having the gill openings
confluent beneath the neck. The pectoral arch is generally attached
to the skull, and the entire margin of the upper jaw is formed by the
premaxillary. Called also Symbranchia.

SYMMETRAL
Sym"me*tral, a.

Defn: Commensurable; symmetrical. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

SYMMETRIAN
Sym*me"tri*an, n.

Defn: One eminently studious of symmetry of parts. [R.] Sir P.
Sidney.

SYMMETRIC
Sym*met"ric, a.

Defn: Symmetrical.

SYMMETRICAL
Sym*met"ric*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. symetrique. See Symmetry.]

1. Involving or exhibiting symmetry; proportional in parts; having
its parts in due proportion as to dimensions; as, a symmetrical body
or building.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Having the organs or parts of one side correspponding with
those of the other; having the parts in two or more series of organs
the same in number; exhibiting a symmetry.See Symmetry, 2.

3. (Bot.)
(a) Having an equal number of parts in the successive circles of
floral organs; -- said of flowers.
(b) Having a likeness in the form and size of floral organs of the
same kind; regular.

4. (Math.)

Defn: Having a common measure; commensurable.
(b) Having corresponding parts or relations.

Note: A curve or a plane figure is symmetrical with respect to a
given line, and a line, surface, or solid with respect to a plane,
when for each point on one side of the line or plane there is a
corresponding point on the other side, so situated that the line
joining the two corresponding points is perpendicular to the line or
plane and is bisectad by it. Two solids are symmetrical when they are
so situate dwith the respect to an intervening plane that the several
points of their surfaces thus correspond to each other in position
and distance. In analysis, an expression is symmetrical with respect
to several letters when any two of them may change places without
affecting the expression; as, the expression a2b + ab2 + a2c + ac2 +
b2c + bc2, is symmetrical with respect to the letters a, b, c.
 -- Sym*met"ric*al*ly, adv.
 -- Sym*met"ric*al*ness, n.

SYMMETRICIAN
Sym`me*tri"cian, n.

Defn: Same as Symmetrian. [R.] Holinshed.

SYMMETRIST
Sym"me*trist, n.

Defn: One eminently studious of symmetry of parts. Sir H. Wotton.

SYMMETRIZE
Sym"me*trize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Symmetrized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Symmetrizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. symetriser.]

Defn: To make proportional in its parts; to reduce to symmetry.
Burke.

SYMMETRY
Sym"me*try, n. Etym: [L. symmetria, Gr. symetrie. See Syn-, and Meter
rhythm.]

1. A due proportion of the several parts of a body to each other;
adaptation of the form or dimensions of the several parts of a thing
to each other; the union and conformity of the members of a work to
the whole.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: The law of likeness; similarity of structure; regularity in
form and arrangement; orderly and similar distribution of parts, such
that an animal may be divided into parts which are structurally
symmetrical.

Note: Bilateral symmetry, or two-sidedness, in vertebrates, etc., is
that in which the body can be divided into symmetrical halves by a
vertical plane passing through the middle; radial symmetry, as in
echinoderms, is that in which the individual parts are arranged
symmetrically around a central axis; serial symmetry, or zonal
symmetry, as in earthworms, is that in which the segments or
metameres of the body are disposed in a zonal manner one after the
other in a longitudinal axis. This last is sometimes called
metamerism.

3. (Bot.)
(a) Equality in the number of parts of the successive circles in a
flower.
(b) Likeness in the form and size of floral organs of the same kind;
regularity. Axis of symmetry. (Geom.) See under Axis.
 -- Respective symmetry, that disposition of parts in which only the
opposite sides are equal to each other.

SYMPATHETIC
Sym`pa*thet"ic, a. Etym: [See Sympathy, and cf. Pathetic.]

1. Inclined to sympathy; sympathizing.
Far wiser he, whose sympathetic mind Exults in all the good of all
mankind. Goldsmith.

2. Produced by, or expressive of, sympathy.
Ope the sacred source of sympathetic tears. Gray.

3. (Physiol.)
(a) Produced by sympathy; -- applied particularly to symptoms or
affections. See Sympathy.
(b) Of or relating to the sympathetic nervous system or some of its
branches; produced by stimulation on the sympathetic nervious system
or some part of it; as, the sympathetic saliva, a modified form of
saliva, produced from some of the salivary glands by stimulation of a
sympathetic nerve fiber. Sympathetic ink. (Chem.) See under Ink.
 -- Sympathetic nerve (Anat.), any nerve of the sympathetic system;
especially, the axial chain of ganglions and nerves belonging to the
sympathetic system.
 -- Sympathetic powder (Alchemy), a kind of powder long supposed to
be able to cure a wound if applied to the weapon that inflicted it,
or even to a portion of the bloody clothes. Dunglison.
 -- Sympathetic sounds (Physics), sounds produced from solid bodies
by means of vibrations which have been communicated to them from some
other sounding body, by means of the air or an intervening solid.
 -- Sympathetic system (Anat.), a system of nerves and nerve
ganglions connected with the alimentary canal, the vascular system,
and the glandular organs of most vertebrates, and controlling more or
less their actions. The axial part of the system and its principal
ganglions and nerves are situated in the body cavity and form a chain
of ganglions on each side of the vertebral column connected with
numerous other ganglions and nerve plexuses.

SYMPATHETICAL
Sym`pa*thet"ic*al, a.

Defn: Sympathetic.

SYMPATHETICALLY
Sym`pa*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sympathetic manner.

SYMPATHIST
Sym"pa*thist, n.

Defn: One who sympathizes; a sympathizer. [R.] Coleridge.

SYMPATHIZE
Sym"pa*thize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sympathized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sympathizing.] Etym: [F. sympathiser. See Sympathy.]

1. To have a common feeling, as of bodily pleasure or pain.
The mind will sympathize so much with the anguish and debility of the
body, that it will be too distracted to fix itself in meditation.
Buckminster.

2. To feel in consequence of what another feels; to be affected by
feelings similar to those of another, in consequence of knowing the
person to be thus affected.
Their countrymen . . . sympathized with their heroes in all their
adventures. Addison.

3. To agree; to be in accord; to harmonize. Dryden.

SYMPATHIZE
Sym"pa*thize, v. t.

1. To experience together. [Obs.] "This sympathized . . . error."
Shak.

2. To ansew to; to correspond to. [Obs.] Shak.

SYMPATHIZER
Sym"pa*thi`zer, n.

Defn: One who sympathizes.

SYMPATHY
Sym"pa*thy, n.; pl. Sympathies. Etym: [F. sympathie, L. sympathia,
Gr. Syn-, and Pathos.]

1. Feeling corresponding to that which another feels; the quality of
being affected by the affection of another, with feelings
correspondent in kind, if not in degree; fellow-feeling.
They saw, but other sight instead -- a crowd Of ugly serpents! Horror
on them fell, And horrid sympathy. Milton.

2. An agreement of affections or inclinations, or a conformity of
natural temperament, which causes persons to be pleased, or in
accord, with one another; as, there is perfect sympathy between them.

3. Kindness of feeling toward one who suffers; pity; commiseration;
compassion.
I value myself upon sympathy, I hate and despise myself for envy.
Kames.

4. (Physiol.)
(a) The reciprocal influence exercised by the various organs or parts
of the body on one another, as manifested in the transmission of a
disease by unknown means from one organ to another quite remote, or
in the influence exerted by a diseased condition of one part on
another part or organ, as in the vomiting produced by a tumor of the
brain.
(b) That relation which exists between different persons by which one
of them produces in the others a state or condition like that of
himself. This is shown in the tendency to yawn which a person often
feels on seeing another yawn, or the strong inclination to become
hysteric experienced by many women on seeing another person suffering
with hysteria.

5. A tendency of inanimate things to unite, or to act on each other;
as, the sympathy between the loadstone and iron. [R.]

6. Similarity of function, use office, or the like.
The adverb has most sympathy with the verb. Earle.

Syn.
 -- Pity; fellow-feeling; compassion; commiseration; tenderness;
condolence; agreement.
 -- Sympathy, Commiseration. Sympathy is literally a fellow-feeling
with others in their varied conditions of joy or of grief. This term,
however, is now more commonly applied to a fellow-feeling with others
under affliction, and then coincides very nearly with commiseration.
In this case it is commonly followed by for; as, to feel sympathy for
a friend when we see him distressed. The verb sympathize is followed
by with; as, to sympathize with a friend in his distresses or
enjoyments. "Every man would be a distinct species to himself, were
there no sympathy among individuals." South. See Pity.
Fault, Acknowledged and deplored, in Adam wrought Commiseration.
Milton.

SYMPETALOUS
Sym*pet"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. sym- + petal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the petals united; gamopetalous.

SYMPHONIC
Sym*phon"ic, a.

1. Symphonious.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Relating to, or in the manner of, symphony; as, the symphonic
form or style of composition.

SYMPHONIOUS
Sym*pho"ni*ous, a. Etym: [From Symphony.]

1. Agreeing in sound; accordant; harmonious.
Followed with acclamation and the sound Symphonious of ten thousand
harps. Milton.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Symphonic.

SYMPHONIST
Sym"pho*nist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. symphoniste.]

Defn: A composer of symphonies.

SYMPHONIZE
Sym"pho*nize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Symphonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Symphonizing.]

Defn: To agree; to be in harmony. [R.] Boyle.

SYMPHONY
Sym"pho*ny, n.; pl. Symphonies. Etym: [F. symphonie (cf. It.
sinfonia), L. symphonia, Gr. Phonetic.]

1. A consonance or harmony of sounds, agreeable to the ear, whether
the sounds are vocal or instrumental, or both.
The trumpets sound, And warlike symphony in heard around. Dryden.

2. A stringed instrument formerly in use, somewhat resembling the
virginal.
With harp and pipe and symphony. Chaucer.

3. (Mus.)
(a) An elaborate instrumental composition for a full orchestra,
consisting usually, like the sonata, of three or four contrasted yet
inwardly related movements, as the allegro, the adagio, the minuet
and trio, or scherzo, and the finale in quick time. The term has
recently been applied to large orchestral works in freer form, with
arguments or programmes to explain their meaning, such as the
"symphonic poems" of Liszt. The term was formerly applied to any
composition for an orchestra, as overtures, etc., and still earlier,
to certain compositions partly vocal, partly instrumental.
(b) An instrumental passage at the beginning or end, or in the course
of, a vocal composition; a prelude, interlude, or postude; a
ritornello.

SYMPHYLA
Sym*phy"la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of small apterous insects having an elongated body,
with three pairs of thoracic and about nine pairs of abdominal legs.
They are, in many respects, intermediate between myriapods and true
insects.

SYMPHYSEAL
Sym*phys"e*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to to symphysis.

SYMPHYSEOTOMY
Sym`phy*se*ot"o*my, n. Etym: [NL. symphysis pubis + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of dividing the symphysis pubis for the purpose
of facilitating labor; -- formerly called the Sigualtian section.
[Written also symphysotomy.] Dunglison.

SYMPHYSIS
Sym"phy*sis, n.; pl. Symphyses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)
(a) An articulation formed by intervening cartilage; as, the pubic
symphysis.
(b) The union or coalescence of bones; also, the place of union or
coalescence; as, the symphysis of the lower jaw. Cf. Articulation.

SYMPHYSOTOMY
Sym`phy*sot"o*my, n.

Defn: Symphyseotomy.

SYMPHYTISM
Sym"phy*tism, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Coalescence; a growing into one with another word. [R.]
Some of the phrasal adverbs have assumed the form of single words, by
that symphytism which naturally attaches these light elements to each
other. Earle.

SYMPIESOMETER
Sym`pi*e*som"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: A sensitive kind of barometer, in which the pressure of the
atmosphere, acting upon a liquid, as oil, in the lower portion of the
instrument, compresses an elastic gas in the upper part.

Note: The column of oil of a lower part BC of a glass tube compresses
hydrogen gas in the upper part AB, and is thus measured on the scale
pq by the position of a surface of the oil in the tube. The scale pq
is adjustable, and its index must be set to the division on the scale
rs corresponding to the temperature indicated by the termometer t, in
order to correct for the effects of temperature on the gas. It is
sensitive, and convenient for use at sea, but inferior in accuracy to
the mercurial barometer.

SYMPLECTIC
Sym*plec"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Plaiting or joining together; -- said of a bone next above the
quadrate in the mandibular suspensorium of many fishes, which unites
together the other bones of the suspensorium.
 -- n.

Defn: The symplectic bone.

SYMPLOCE
Sym"plo*ce, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: The repetition of a word or phrase at the beginning and another
at the end of successive clauses; as, Justice came down from heaven
to view the earth; Justice returned to heaven, and left the earth.

SYMPODE
Sym"pode, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A sympodium.

SYMPODIAL
Sym*po"di*al, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Composed of superposed branches in such a way as to imitate a
simple axis; as, a sympodial stem.

SYMPODIUM
Sym*po"di*um, n.; pl. Sympodia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: An axis or stem produced by dichotomous branching in which one
of the branches is regularly developed at the expense of the other,
as in the grapevine.

SYMPOSIAC
Sym*po"si*ac, a. Etym: [L. symposiacus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to compotations and merrymaking; happening
where company is drinking together; as, symposiac meetings.
Symposiac disputations amongst my acquaintance. Arbuthnot.

SYMPOSIAC
Sym*po"si*ac, n.

Defn: A conference or conversation of philosophers at a banquet;
hence, any similar gathering.

SYMPOSIARCH
Sym*po"si*arch, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: The master of a feast.

SYMPOSIAST
Sym*po"si*ast, n.

Defn: One engaged with others at a banquet or merrymaking. Sydney
Smith.

SYMPOSION
Sym*po"si*on, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A drinking together; a symposium. "Our symposion last night."
Sir W. Scott.

SYMPOSIUM
Sym*po"si*um, n.; pl. Symposia. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. sympo`sion a
drinking party, feast; sy`n with + po`sis a drinking. See Syn-, and
cf. Potable.]

1. A drinking together; a merry feast. T. Warton.

2. A collection of short essays by different authors on a common
topic; -- so called from the appellation given to the philosophical
dialogue by the Greeks.

SYMPTOM
Symp"tom, n. Etym: [F. symptome, Gr. pat to fly, to fall. See Syn-,
and cf. Asymptote, Feather.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Any affection which accompanies disease; a perceptible change
in the body or its functions, which indicates disease, or the kind or
phases of disease; as, the causes of disease often lie beyond our
sight, but we learn their nature by the symptoms exhibited.
Like the sick man, we are expiring with all sorts of good symptoms.
Swift.

2. A sign or token; that which indicates the existence of something
else; as, corruption in elections is a symptom of the decay of public
virtue.

Syn.
 -- Mark; note; sign; token; indication.

SYMPTOMATIC; SYMPTOMATICAL
Symp`tom*at"ic, Symp`tom*at"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. symptomatique,
Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to symptoms; happening in concurrence with
something; being a symptom; indicating the existence of something
else.
Symptomatic of a shallow understanding and an unamiable temper.
Macaulay.

2. According to symptoms; as, a symptomatical classification of
diseases.
 -- Symp`tom*at"ic*al*ly, adv.

SYMPTOMATOLOGY
Symp`tom*a*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy: cf. F. symptomatologie.]
(Med.)

Defn: The doctrine of symptoms; that part of the science of medicine
which treats of the symptoms of diseases; semeiology.

Note: It includes diagnosis, or the determination of the disease from
its symptoms; and prognosis, or the determination of its probable
course and event.

SYN-
Syn-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A prefix meaning with, along with, together, at the same time.
Syn- becomes sym- before p, b, and m, and syl- before l.

SYNACME; SYNACMY
Syn*ac"me, Syn*ac"my, n. Etym: [NL. synacme. See Syn-, and Acme.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Same as Synanthesis.

SYNAERESIS; SYNERESIS
Syn*?r"e*sis, Syn*er"e*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Syn-, and Heresy.]
(Gram.)

Defn: The union, or drawing together into one syllable, of two vowels
that are ordinarily separated in syllabification; synecphonesis; --
the opposite of di?resis.

SYNAGOGICAL
Syn`a*gog"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a synagogue.

SYNAGOGUE
Syn"a*gogue, n. Etym: [F., from L. synagoga, Gr. Syn-, and Agent.]

1. A congregation or assembly of Jews met for the purpose of worship,
or the performance of religious rites.

2. The building or place appropriated to the religious worship of the
Jews.

3. The council of, probably, 120 members among the Jews, first
appointed after the return from the Babylonish captivity; -- called
also the Great Synagogue, and sometimes, though erroneously, the
Sanhedrin.

4. A congregation in the early Christian church.
My brethren, . . . if there come into your synagogue a man with a
gold ring. James ii. 1,2 (Rev. Ver.).

5. Any assembly of men. [Obs. or R.] Milton.

SYNALEPHA
Syn`a*le"pha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. synaloepha, Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A contraction of syllables by suppressing some vowel or
diphthong at the end of a word, before another vowel or diphthong;
as, th' army, for the army. [Written also synaloepha.]

SYNALLAGMATIC
Syn`al*lag*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Law)

Defn: Imposing reciprocal obligations upon the parties; as, a
synallagmatic contract. Bouvier.

SYNALLAXINE
Syn`al*lax"ine, a. Etym: [From Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the outer and middle toes partially united; -- said of
certain birds related to the creepers.

SYNALOEPHA
Syn`a*loe"pha, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Same as Synalepha.

SYNANGIUM
Syn*an"gi*um, n.; pl. Synangia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The divided part beyond the pylangium in the aortic trunk of
the amphibian heart.
 -- Syn*an"gi*al, a.

SYNANTHEROUS
Syn*an"ther*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + anther.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having the stamens united by their anthers; as, synantherous
flowers.

SYNANTHESIS
Syn`an*the"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The simultaneous maturity of the anthers and stigmas of a
blossom. Gray.

SYNANTHOUS
Syn*an"thous, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having flowers and leaves which appear at the same time; --
said of certain plants.

SYNANTHROSE
Syn*an"throse", n. Etym: [From NL. Synanther? the Composit?; Gr.
(Chem.)

Defn: A variety of sugar, isomeric with sucrose, found in the tubers
of the Jerusalem artichoke (Helianthus tuberosus), in the dahlia, and
other Composit?.

SYNAPTA
Syn*ap"ta, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of slender, transparent holothurians which have
delicate calcareous anchors attached to the dermal plates. See
Illustration in Appendix.

SYNAPTASE
Syn*ap"tase, n. Etym: [Gr. tase.] (Chem.)

Defn: A ferment resembling diastase, found in bitter almonds. Cf.
Amygdalin, and Emulsin.

SYNAPTICULA
Syn`ap*tic"u*la, n.; pl. Synapticul?. Etym: [NL., dim. from Gr.
(Zool.)

Defn: One of numerous calcareous processes which extend between, and
unite, the adjacent septa of certain corals, especially of the
fungian corals.

SYNARCHY
Syn"ar*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Joint rule or sovereignity. [R.] Stackhouse.

SYNARTESIS
Syn`ar*te"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A fastening or knitting together; the state of being closely
jointed; close union. [R.] Coleridge.

SYNARTHRODIA
Syn`ar*thro"di*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: Synarthrosis.
 -- Syn`ar*thro"di*al, a. Dunglison.

SYNARTHROSIS
Syn`ar*thro"sis, n.; pl. Synarthroses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Immovable articulation by close union, as in sutures. It
sometimes includes symphysial articulations also. See the Note under
Articulation, n., 1.

SYNASTRY
Syn"as*try, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr.

Defn: Concurrence of starry position or influence; hence, similarity
of condition, fortune, etc., as prefigured by astrological
calculation. [R.] Motley.

SYNAXIS
Syn*ax"is, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Synagogue.]

Defn: A congregation; also, formerly, the Lord's Supper. Jer. Taylor.

SYNCARP
Syn"carp, n. Etym: [NL. syncarpium. See Syncarpous.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of aggregate fruit in which the ovaries cohere in a
solid mass, with a slender receptacle, as in the magnolia; also, a
similar multiple fruit, as a mulberry.

SYNCARPIUM
Syn*car"pi*um, n.; pl. Syncarpia. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Syncarp.

SYNCARPOUS
Syn*car"pous, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Composed of several carpels consolidated into one ovary.

SYNCATEGOREMATIC
Syn*cat`e*gor`e*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. Syn-, and Categorematic.]
(Logic)

Defn: Not capable of being used as a term by itself; -- said of
words, as an adverb or preposition.

SYNCHONDROSIS
Syn`chon*dro"sis, n.; pl. Synchondroses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: An immovable articulation in which the union is formed by
cartilage.
 -- Syn`chon*dro"si*al, a.

SYNCHONDROTOMY
Syn`chon*drot"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: Symphyseotomy.

SYNCHORESIS
Syn`cho*re"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A concession made for the purpose of retorting with greater
force.

SYNCHRONAL
Syn"chro*nal, a. Etym: [See Synchronous.]

Defn: Happening at, or belonging to, the same time; synchronous;
simultaneous. Dr. H. More.

SYNCHRONAL
Syn"chro*nal, n.

Defn: A synchronal thing or event.

SYNCHRONICAL
Syn*chron"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. synchronique.]

Defn: Happening at the same time; synchronous. Boyle.
 -- Syn*chron"ic*al*ly, adv.

SYNCHRONISM
Syn"chro*nism, n. Etym: [Gr. Synchronous.]

1. The concurrence of events in time; simultaneousness.

2. The tabular arrangement of historical events and personages,
according to their dates.

3. (Paint.)

Defn: A representation, in the same picture, of two or events which
occured at different times.

SYNCHRONISTIC
Syn`chro*nis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to synchronism; arranged according to
correspondence in time; as, synchronistic tables.

SYNCHRONIZATION
Syn`chro*ni*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of synchronizing; concurrence of events in respect to
time.

SYNCHRONIZE
Syn"chro*nize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Synchronized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Synchronizing.] Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To agree in time; to be simultaneous.
The path of this great empire, through its arch of progress,
synchronized with that of Christianity. De Quincey.

SYNCHRONIZE
Syn"chro*nize, v. t.

1. To assign to the same date or period of time; as, to synchronize
two events of Greek and Roman history. "Josephus synchronizes Nisan
with the Egyptian Pharmus." W. L. Bevan.

2. To cause to agree in time; as, to synchronize the movements of
different machines; to synchronize clocks.

SYNCHRONOLOGY
Syn`chro*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. -logy.]

Defn: Contemporaneous chronology.

SYNCHRONOUS
Syn"chro*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. Chronicle.]

Defn: Happening at the same time; simultaneous.
 -- Syn"chro*nous*ly, adv.

SYNCHRONY
Syn"chro*ny, n.

Defn: The concurrence of events in time; synchronism. [R.]
Geological contemporaneity is the same as chronological synchrony.
Huxley.

SYNCHYSIS
Syn"chy*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

Defn: A derangement or confusion of any kind, as of words in a
sentence, or of humors in the eye. Sparkling synchysis (Med.), a
condition in which the vitreous humor is softened and contains
sparkling scales of cholesterin.

SYNCLASTIC
Syn*clas"tic, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. kla^n to break.] (Math.
Physics)

Defn: Curved toward the same side in all directions; -- said of
surfaces which in all directions around any point bend away from a
tangent plane toward the same side, as the surface of a sphere; --
opposed to anticlastic. Sir W. Thomson.

SYNCLINAL
Syn*cli"nal, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Inclined downward from opposite directions, so as to meet in a
common point or line.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Formed by strata dipping toward a common line or plane; as, a
synclinal trough or valley; a synclinal fold; -- opposed to
anticlinal.

Note: A downward flexure in the case of folded rocks makes a
synclinal axis, and the alternating upward flexure an anticlinal
axis.

SYNCLINAL
Syn*cli"nal, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A synclinal fold.

SYNCLINE
Syn*cline", n. (Geol.)

Defn: A synclinal fold.

SYNCLINICAL
Syn*clin"ic*al, a.

Defn: Synclinal. [R.]

SYNCLINORIUM
Syn`cli*no"ri*um, n.; pl. Synclinoria. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Geol.)

Defn: A mountain range owing its origin to the progress of a
geosynclinal, and ending in a catastrophe of displacement and
upturning. Dana.

SYNCOPAL
Syn"co*pal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to syncope; resembling syncope.

SYNCOPATE
Syn"co*pate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Syncopated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Syncopating.] Etym: [LL. syncopatus, p.p. of syncopare to syncopate,
to swoon. See Syncope.]

1. (Gram.)

Defn: To contract, as a word, by taking one or more letters or
syllables from the middle; as, "Gloster" is a syncopated form of
"Gloucester."

2. (Mus.)

Defn: To commence, as a tone, on an unaccented part of a measure, and
continue it into the following accented part, so that the accent is
driven back upon the weak part and the rhythm drags.

SYNCOPATION
Syn`co*pa"tion, n.

1. (Gram.)

Defn: The act of syncopating; the contraction of a word by taking one
or more letters or syllables from the middle; syncope.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The act of syncopating; a peculiar figure of rhythm, or
rhythmical alteration, which consists in welding into one tone the
second half of one beat with the first half of the beat which
follows.

SYNCOPE
Syn"co*pe, n. Etym: [L. syncope, syncopa, Gr.

1. (Gram.)

Defn: An elision or retrenchment of one or more letters or syllables
from the middle of a word; as, ne'er for never, ev'ry for every.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Same as Syncopation.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A fainting, or swooning. See Fainting.

4. A pause or cessation; suspension. [R.]
Revely, and dance, and show, Suffer a syncope and solemn pause.
Cowper.

SYNCOPIST
Syn"co*pist, n.

Defn: One who syncopates. Addison.

SYNCOPIZE
Syn"co*pize, v. t.

Defn: To syncopate.

SYNCOTYLEDONOUS
Syn*cot`y*led"on*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + cotyledonous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having united cotyledonous.

SYNCRETIC
Syn*cret"ic, a.

Defn: Uniting and blending together different systems, as of
philosophy, morals, or religion. Smart.

SYNCRETISM
Syn"cre*tism, n. Etym: [Gr. syncretisme.]

Defn: Attempted union of principles or parties irreconcilably at
variance with each other.
He is plotting a carnal syncretism, and attempting the reconcilement
of Christ and Belial. Baxter.
Syncretism is opposed to eclecticism in philosophy. Krauth-Fleming.

SYNCRETIST
Syn"cre*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. syncretiste.]

Defn: One who attempts to unite principles or parties which are
irreconcilably at variance; specifically (Eccl. Hist.),

Defn: an adherent of George Calixtus and other Germans of the
seventeenth century, who sought to unite or reconcile the Protestant
sects with each other and with the Roman Catholics, and thus
occasioned a long and violent controversy in the Lutheran church.

SYNCRETISTIC
Syn`cre*tis"tic, a.

1. Pertaining to, or characterized by, syncretism; as, a syncretistic
mixture of the service of Jehovah and the worship of idols.

2. Of or pertaining to Syncretists.

SYNCRISIS
Syn"cri*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech in which opposite things or persons are
compared. Crabb.

SYNCYTIUM
Syn*cy"ti*um, n.; pl. Syncitia. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Tissue in which the cell or partition walls are wholly wanting
and the cell bodies fused together, so that the tissue consists of a
continuous mass of protoplasm in which nuclei are imbedded, as in
ordinary striped muscle.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The ectoderm of a sponge.

SYNDACTYL; SYNDACTYLE
Syn*dac"tyl, Syn*dac"tyle, a.  [Syn- + Gr.  finger, toe.] (Zool. &
Med.)

Defn: Having two or more digits wholly or partly united. See
Syndactylism.

SYNDACTYLE
Syn*dac"tyle, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. syndactyle.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any bird having syndactilous feet.

SYNDACTYLIC
Syn*dac*tyl"ic, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Syndactilous.

SYNDACTYLOUS
Syn*dac"tyl*ous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the toes firmly united together for some distance, and
without an intermediate web, as the kingfishers; gressorial.

SYNDESMOGRAPHY
Syn`des*mog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: A description of the ligaments; syndesmology.

SYNDESMOLOGY
Syn`des*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of ligaments.

SYNDESMOSIS
Syn`des*mo"sis, n.; pl. Syndesmoses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: An articulation formed by means of ligaments.

SYNDETIC; SYNDETICAL
Syn*det"ic, Syn*det"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Asyndetic.]

Defn: Connecting; conjunctive; as, syndetic words or connectives;
syndetic references in a dictionary.
 -- Syn*det"ic*al*ly, adv.
With the syndetic juxtaposition of distinct members, the article is
not often repeated. C. J. Grece (Trans. Maetzner's Gram.).

SYNDIC
Syn"dic, n. Etym: [L. syndictus, Gr. syndic. See Teach.]

1. An officer of government, invested with different powers in
different countries; a magistrate.

2. (Law)

Defn: An agent of a corporation, or of any body of men engaged in a
business enterprise; an advocate or patron; an assignee.

Note: In France, syndics are appointed by the creditors of a bankrupt
to manage the property. Almost all the companies in Paris, the
university, and the like, have their syndics. The university of
Cambridge, Eng., has its syndics, who are chosen from the senate to
transact special business, such as the regulation of fees, the
framing of laws, etc.

SYNDICAL
Syn"dic*al, a.

1. Consisting of, or pert. to, a syndic.

2.  Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, syndicalism.

SYNDICALISM
Syn"dic*al*ism, n. [F. syndicalisme.]

Defn: The theory, plan, or practice of trade-union action (originally
as advocated and practiced by the French Confederation Generale du
Travail) which aims to abolish the present political and social
system by means of the general strike (as distinguished from the
local or sectional strike) and direct action of whatever kind (as
distinguished from action which takes effect only through the medium
of political action) -- direct action including any kind of action
that is directly effective, whether it be a simple strike, a peaceful
public demonstration, sabotage, or revolutionary violence. By the
general strike and direct action syndicalism aims to establish a
social system in which the means and processes of production are in
the control of local organizations of workers, who are manage them
for the common good.

SYNDICALIST
Syn"dic*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who advocates or practices syndicalism. --Syn`dic*al*is"tic
(#), a.

SYNDICATE
Syn"di*cate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. syndicat, LL. syndicatus.]

1. The office or jurisdiction of a syndic; a council, or body of
syndics. Bp. Burnet.

2. An association of persons officially authorized to undertake some
duty or to negotiate some business; also, an association of persons
who combine to carry out, on their own account, a financial or
industrial project; as, a syndicate of bankers formed to take up and
dispose of an entire issue of government bonds.

SYNDICATE
Syn"di*cate, v. t. Etym: [LL. syndicatus, p.p. of syndicare to
censure.]

Defn: To judge; to censure. [Obs.]

SYNDICATION
Syn`di*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Act or process of syndicating or forming a syndicate.

SYNDROME
Syn"dro*me, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

Defn: Concurrence. [R.] Glanvill.

Defn: A group of symptoms occurring together that are characteristic
and indicative of some underlying cause, such as a disease.

SYNDYASMIAN
Syn`dy*as"mi*an, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to the state of pairing together sexually; -- said
of animals during periods of procreation and while rearing their
offspring. Morgan.

SYNE
Syne, adv. Etym: [See Since.]

1. Afterwards; since; ago. [Obs. or Scot.] R. of Brunne.

2. Late, -- as opposed to soon.
[Each rogue] shall be discovered either soon or syne. W. Hamilton
(Life of Wallace).

SYNE
Syne, conj.

Defn: Since; seeing. [Scot.]

SYNECDOCHE
Syn*ec"do*che, n. Etym: [L. synecdoche, Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure or trope by which a part of a thing is put for the
whole (as, fifty sail for fifty ships), or the whole for a part (as,
the smiling year for spring), the species for the genus (as,
cutthroat for assassin), the genus for the species (as, a creature
for a man), the name of the material for the thing made, etc. Bain.

SYNECDOCHICAL
Syn`ec*doch"ic*al, a.

Defn: Expressed by synecdoche; implying a synecdoche.
Isis is used for Themesis by a synecdochical kind of speech, or by a
poetical liberty, in using one for another. Drayton.

SYNECDOCHICALLY
Syn`ec*doch"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By synecdoche.

SYNECHIA
Syn*e"chi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A disease of the eye, in which the iris adheres to the cornea
or to the capsule of the crystalline lens.

SYNECPHONESIS
Syn*ec`pho*ne"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: A contraction of two syllables into one; synizesis.

SYNEDRAL
Syn*e"dral, a. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Growing on the angles of a stem, as the leaves in some species
of Selaginella.

SYNENTOGNATHI
Syn`en*tog"na*thi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of fishes, resembling the Physoclisti, without spines
in the dorsal, anal, and ventral fins. It includes the true flying
fishes.

SYNEPY
Syn"e*py, n. Etym: [Gr. (Rhet.)

Defn: The interjunction, or joining, of words in uttering the clauses
of sentences.

SYNERESIS
Syn*er"e*sis, n.

Defn: Same as Syn?resis.

SYNERGETIC
Syn`er*get"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Working together; cooperating; as, synergetic muscles.

SYNERGISM
Syn"er*gism, n. Etym: [See Synergetic.] (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine or theory, attributed to Melanchthon, that in the
regeneration of a human soul there is a cooperation, or joint agency,
on the part both of God and of man.

SYNERGIST
Syn"er*gist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. synergiste.]

1. One who holds the doctrine of synergism.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy which has an action similar to that of another remedy,
and hence increases the efficiency of that remedy when combined with
it.

SYNERGISTIC
Syn`er*gis"tic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to synergism. "A synergistic view of
regeneration." Shedd.

2. Cooperating; synergetic.

SYNERGY
Syn"er*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. Synergetic.]

Defn: Combined action; especially (Med.),

Defn: the combined healty action of every organ of a particular
system; as, the digestive synergy.

Defn: An effect of the interaction of the actions of two agents such
that the result of the combined action is greater than expected as a
simple additive combination of the two agents acting separately. Also
synergism.

SYNESIS
Syn"e*sis, n. [Gr.  intelligence.] (Gram.)

Defn: A construction in which adherence to some element in the sense
causes a departure from strict syntax, as in "Philip went down to
Samaria and preached Christ unto them."

SYNGENESIA
Syn`ge*ne"si*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A Linn?an class of plants in which the stamens are united by
the anthers.

SYNGENESIAN; SYNGENESIOUS
Syn`ge*ne"sian, Syn`ge*ne"sious, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the stamens united by the anthers; of or pertaining to
the Syngenesia.

SYNGENESIS
Syn*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: A theory of generation in which each germ is supposed to
contain the germs of all subsequent generations; -- the opposite of
epigenesis.

SYNGNATHI
Syng"na*thi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A suborder of lophobranch fishes which have an elongated snout
and lack the ventral and first dorsal fins. The pipefishes and sea
horses are examples.
 -- Syng"na*thous, a.

SYNGRAPH
Syn"graph, n. Etym: [L. syngrapha, Gr. (Law)

Defn: A writing signed by both or all the parties to a contract or
bond.

SYNIZESIS
Syn`i*ze"sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: An obliteration of the pupil of the eye.

2. (Gram.)

Defn: A contraction of two syllables into one; synecphonesis.

SYNNEOROSIS
Syn`neo*ro"sis, n.; pl. Synneuroses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Syndesmosis.

SYNOCHA
Syn"o*cha, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Synechia.] (Med.)

Defn: See Synochus. [Obs.]

SYNOCHAL
Syn"o*chal, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to synocha; like synocha. [Obs.]

SYNOCHUS
Syn"o*chus, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A continuous fever. [Obs.]

Note: Synocha and synochus were used as epithets of two distinct
types of fever, but in different senses at different periods. The
same disease is placed under synocha by one author, under synochus by
another. Quain.

SYNOCIL
Syn"o*cil, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + cilium.] (Zool.)

Defn: A sense organ found in certain sponges. It consists of several
filaments, each of which arises from a single cell.

SYNOD
Syn"od, n. Etym: [L. synodus, Gr. sino, seno, F. synode, both from
the Latin.]

1. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: An ecclesiastic council or meeting to consult on church
matters.

Note: Synods are of four kinds: 1. General, or ecumenical, which are
compopsed of bishops from different nations; -- commonly called
general council. 2. National, composed of bishops of one nation only.
3. Provincial, in which the bishops of only one province meet; --
called also convocations. 4. Diocesan, a synod in which the bishop of
the diocese or his representative presides. Among Presbyterians, a
synod is composed of several adjoining presbyteries. The members are
the ministers and a ruling elder from each parish.

2. An assembly or council having civil authority; a legislative body.
It hath in solemn synods been decreed, Both by the Syracusians and
ourselves, To admit no traffic to our adverse towns. Shak.
Parent of gods and men, propitious Jove! And you, bright synod of the
powers above. Dryden.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: A conjunction of two or more of the heavenly bodies. [R.]
Milton.

SYNODAL
Syn"od*al, a. Etym: [L. synodalis: cf. F. synodal.]

Defn: Synodical. Milton.

SYNODAL
Syn"od*al, n.

1. (Ch. of Eng.)

Defn: A tribute in money formerly paid to the bishop or archdeacon,
at the time of his Easter visitation, by every parish priest, now
made to the ecclesiastical commissioners; a procuration.
Synodals are due, of common right, to the bishop only. Gibson.

2. A constitution made in a provincial or diocesan synod.

SYNODIC; SYNODICAL
Syn*od"ic, Syn*od"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. synodicus, Gr. synodique.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a synod; transacted in, or authorized by, a
synod; as, synodical proceedings or forms. "A synodical epistle." Bp.
Stillingfleet.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: Pertaining to conjunction, especially to the period between two
successive conjunctions; extending from one conjunction, as of the
moon or a planet with the sun, to the next; as, a synodical month
(see Lunar month, under Month); the synodical revolution of the moon
or a planet.

SYNODICALLY
Syn*od"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a synodical manner; in a synod; by the authority of a synod.
"Synodically agreed upon." R. Nelson.

SYNODIST
Syn"od*ist, n.

Defn: An adherent to a synod.
These synodists thought fit in Latin as yet to veil their decrees
from vulgar eyes. Fuller.

SYNOECIOUS
Syn*oe"cious, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Having stamens and pistil in the same head, or, in mosses,
having antheridia and archegonia on the same receptacle.

SYNOMOCY
Syn*om"o*cy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Sworn brotherhood; a society in ancient Greece nearly
resembling a modern political club.

SYNONYM
Syn"o*nym, n.; pl. Synonyms (). Etym: [F. synonyme, L. synonyma, pl.
of synonymum, Gr. Synonymous.]

Defn: One of two or more words (commonly words of the same language)
which are equivalents of each other; one of two or more words which
have very nearly the same signification, and therefore may often be
used interchangeably. See under Synonymous. [Written also synonyme.]
All languages tend to clear themselves of synonyms as intellectual
culture advances, the superfluous words being taken up and
appropriated by new shades and combinations of thought evolved in the
progress of society. De Quincey.
His name has thus become, throughout all civilized countries, a
synonym for probity and philanthropy. Macaulay.
In popular literary acceptation, and as employed in special
dictionaries of such words, synonyms are words sufficiently alike in
general signification to be liable to be confounded, but yet so
different in special definition as to require to be distinguished. G.
P. Marsh.

SYNONYMA
Syn*on"y*ma, n. pl. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Synonyms. [Obs.] Fuller.

SYNONYMAL
Syn*on"y*mal, a.

Defn: Synonymous. [Obs.]

SYNONYMALLY
Syn*on"y*mal*ly, adv.

Defn: Synonymously. [Obs.]

SYNONYME
Syn"o*nyme, n.

Defn: Same as Synonym.

SYNONYMIC
Syn`o*nym"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. G. synonymik. See Synonymous.] (Gram.)

Defn: The science, or the scientific treatment, of synonymous words.

SYNONYMIC; SYNONYMICAL
Syn`o*nym"ic, Syn`o*nym"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to synonyms, or synonymic; synonymous.

SYNONYMICON
Syn`o*nym"i*con, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A dictionary of synonyms. C. J. Smith.

SYNONYMIST
Syn*on"y*mist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. synonymiste.]

Defn: One who collects or explains synonyms.

SYNONYMIZE
Syn*on"y*mize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Synonymized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Synonymizing.]

Defn: To express by a synonym or synonyms; to give the synonym or
synonyms corresponding to.
This word "fortis" we may synonymize after all these fashions: stout,
hardy, valiant, doughty, courageous, adventurous, brave, bold,
daring, intrepid. Camden.

SYNONYMOUS
Syn*on"y*mous, a. Etym: [Gr. Syn-, and Name.]

Defn: Having the character of a synonym; expressing the same thing;
conveying the same, or approximately the same, idea.
 -- Syn*on"y*mous*ly, adv.
These words consist of two propositions, which are not distinct in
sense, but one and the same thing variously expressed; for wisdom and
understanding are synonymous words here. Tillotson.

Syn.
 -- Identical; interchangeable.
 -- Synonymous, Identical. If no words are synonymous except those
which are identical in use and meaning, so that the one can in all
cases be substituted for the other, we have scarcely ten such words
in our language. But the term more properly denotes that the words in
question approach so near to each other, that, in many or most cases,
they can be used interchangeably. 1. Words may thus coincide in
certain connections, and so be interchanged, when they can not be
interchanged in other connections; thus we may speak either strength
of mind or of force of mind, but we say the force (not strength) of
gravitation. 2. Two words may differ slightly, but this difference
may be unimportant to the speaker's object, so that he may freely
interchange them; thus it makes but little difference, in most cases,
whether we speak of a man's having secured his object or having
attained his object. For these and other causes we have numerous
words which may, in many cases or connections, be used
interchangeably, and these are properly called synonyms. Synonymous
words "are words which, with great and essential resemblances of
meaning, have, at the same time, small, subordinate, and partial
differences, -- these differences being such as either originally and
on the ground of their etymology inhered in them; or differences
which they have by usage acquired in the eyes of all; or such as,
though nearly latent now, they are capable of receiving at the hands
of wise and discreet masters of the tongue. Synonyms are words of
like significance in the main, but with a certain unlikeness as
well." Trench.

SYNONYMY
Syn*on"y*my, n. Etym: [L. synonymia, Gr. synonymie.]

1. The quality of being synonymous; sameness of meaning.

2. A system of synonyms.

3. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure by which synonymous words are used to amplify a
discourse.

SYNOPSIS
Syn*op"sis, n.; pl. Synopses. Etym: [L., from Gr. optic.]

Defn: A general view, or a collection of heads or parts so arranged
as to exhibit a general view of the whole; an abstract or summary of
a discourse; a syllabus; a conspectus.
That the reader may see in one view the exactness of the method, as
well as force of the argument, I shall here draw up a short synopsis
of this epistle. Bp. Warburton.

Syn.
 -- Abridgment; compendium; epitome; abstract; summary; syllabus;
conspectus. See Abridgment.

SYNOPTIC; SYNOPTICAL
Syn*op"tic, Syn*op"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. synoptique. See Synopsis.]

Defn: Affording a general view of the whole, or of the principal
parts of a thing; as, a synoptic table; a synoptical statement of an
argument. "The synoptic Gospels." Alford.
 -- Syn*op"tic*al*ly, adv.

SYNOPTIC
Syn*op"tic, n.

Defn: One of the first three Gospels of the New Testament. See
Synoptist.

SYNOPTIST
Syn*op"tist, n.

Defn: Any one of the authors of the three synoptic Gospels, which
give a history of our Lord's life and ministry, in distinction from
the writer of John's Gospel, which gives a fuller record of his
teachings.

SYNOSTEOLOGY
Syn*os`te*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Pref. syn- + Gr. -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of joints; arthrology.

SYNOSTEOSIS
Syn*os`te*o"sis, n.; pl. Synosteoses. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Union by means of bone; the complete closing up and
obliteration of sutures.

SYNOSTOSIS
Syn`os*to"sis, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Same as Synosteosis.

SYNOVIA
Syn*o"vi*a, n. Etym: [NL., perhaps fr. Gr. ovum egg: cf. F. synovie.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A transparent, viscid, lubricating fluid which contains mucin
and secreted by synovial membranes; synovial fluid.

SYNOVIAL
Syn*o"vi*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. synovial.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to synovia; secreting synovia. Synovial
capsule, a closed sac of synovial membrane situated between the
articular surfaces at diarthrodial joints.
 -- Synovial fluid, synovia.
 -- Synovial membrane, the dense and very smooth connective tissue
membrane which secretes synovia and surrounds synovial capsules and
other synovial cavities.

SYNOVITIS
Syn`o*vi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Synovia, -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the synovial membrane.

SYNPELMOUS
Syn*pel"mous, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + (Zool.)

Defn: Having the two main flexor tendons of the toes blended
together.

SYNSEPALOUS
Syn*sep"al*ous, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + sepal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having united sepals; gamosepalous.

SYNTACTIC; SYNTACTICAL
Syn*tac"tic, Syn*tac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. G. Syntax.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to syntax; according to the rules of syntax,
or construction.
 -- Syn*tac"tic*al*ly, adv.

SYNTAX
Syn"tax, n. Etym: [L. syntaxis, Gr. syntaxe. See Syn-, and Tactics.]

1. Connected system or order; union of things; a number of things
jointed together; organism. [Obs.]
They owe no other dependence to the first than what is common to the
whole syntax of beings. Glanvill.

2. That part of grammar which treats of the construction of
sentences; the due arrangement of words in sentences in their
necessary relations, according to established usage in any language.

SYNTAXIS
Syn*tax"is, n.

Defn: Syntax. [R.] B. Jonson.

SYNTERESIS
Syn`te*re"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: Prophylaxis. [Obs.]

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: Conscience viewed as the internal repository of the laws of
duty. Whewell.

SYNTERETIC
Syn`te*ret"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Preserving health; prophylactic. [Obs.]

SYNTERETICS
Syn`te*ret"ics, n. (Med.)

Defn: That department of medicine which relates to the preservation
of health; prophylaxis. [Obs.]

SYNTHERMAL
Syn*ther"mal, a. Etym: [Pref. syn- + thermal.]

Defn: Having the same degree of heat.

SYNTHESIS
Syn"the*sis, n.; pl. Syntheses. Etym: [L., a mixture, properly, a
putting together, Gr. Thesis.]

1. Composition, or the putting of two or more things together, as in
compounding medicines.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The art or process of making a compound by putting the
ingredients together, as contrasted with analysis; thus, water is
made by synthesis from hydrogen and oxygen; hence, specifically, the
building up of complex compounds by special reactions, whereby their
component radicals are so grouped that the resulting substances are
identical in every respect with the natural articles when such occur;
thus, artificial alcohol, urea, indigo blue, alizarin, etc., are made
by synthesis.

3. (Logic)

Defn: The combination of separate elements of thought into a whole,
as of simple into complex conceptions, species into genera,
individual propositions into systems; -- the opposite of Ant:
analysis.
Analysis and synthesis, though commonly treated as two different
methods, are, if properly understood, only the two necessary parts of
the same method. Each is the relative and correlative of the other.
Sir W. Hamilton.

SYNTHESIST
Syn"the*sist, n.

Defn: One who employs synthesis, or who follows synthetic methods.

SYNTHESIZE
Syn"the*size, v. t.

1. To combine by synthesis; to unite.

2. To produce by synthesis; as, to synthesize albumin.

SYNTHETIC; SYNTHETICAL
Syn*thet"ic, Syn*thet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. synthetique.]

1. Of or pertaining to synthesis; consisting in synthesis or
composition; as, the synthetic method of reasoning, as opposed to
analytical.
Philosophers hasten too much from the analytic to the synthetic
method; that is, they draw general conclusions from too small a
number of particular observations and experiments. Bolingbroke.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Artificial. Cf. Synthesis, 2.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Comprising within itself structural or other characters which
are usually found only in two or more diverse groups; -- said of
species, genera, and higher groups. See the Note under Comprehensive,
3. Synthetic, or Synthetical language, an inflectional language, or
one characterized by grammatical endings; -- opposed to analytic
language. R. Morris.

SYNTHETICALLY
Syn*thet"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a synthetic manner.

SYNTHETIZE
Syn"the*tize, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: To combine; to unite in regular structure. [R.]

SYNTOMY
Syn"to*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Brevity; conciseness. [R.]

SYNTONIC
Syn*ton"ic, a. (Physics)

Defn: Of or pert. to syntony; specif., designating, or pert. to, a
system of wireless telegraphy in which the transmitting and receiving
apparatus are in syntony with, and only with, one another. --
Syn*ton"ic*al (#), a. --Syn*ton"ic*al*ly, adv.

SYNTONIN
Syn"to*nin, n. Etym: [Cf. Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A proteid substance (acid albumin) formed from the albuminous
matter of muscle by the action of dilute acids; -- formerly called
musculin. See Acid albumin, under Albumin.

SYNTONIZE
Syn"to*nize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. -nized; p. pr. & vb. n. -nizing.]
[See Syntony.] (Physics)

Defn: To adjust or devise so as to emit or respond to electric
oscillations of a certain wave length; to tune; specif., to put (two
or more instruments or systems of wireless telegraphy) in syntony
with each other. -- Syn`to*ni*za"tion (#), n.

SYNTONIZER
Syn"to*niz`er, n. (Physics)

Defn: One that syntonizes; specif., a device consisting essentially
of a variable inductance coil and condenser with a pair of adjustable
spark balls, for attuning the time periods of antenn? in wireless
telegraphy (called also syntonizing coil).

SYNTONY
Syn"to*ny, n. [Cf. Gr.  agreement. See Syn-; Tone.] (Physics)

Defn: State of being adjusted to a certain wave length; agreement or
tuning between the time period of an apparatus emitting electric
oscillations and that of a receiving apparatus, esp. in wireless
telegraphy.

SYPHERING
Sy"pher*ing, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Carp.)

Defn: The lapping of chamfered edges of planks to make a smooth
surface, as for a bulkhead.

SYPHILIDE
Syph"i*lide, n. Etym: [F.] (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous eruption due to syphilis.

SYPHILIS
Syph"i*lis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Syphilus, the name of a shepherd in
the Latin poem of Fracastoro, "Syphilus, sive Morbus Gallicus," which
was published in 1530; Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The pox, or venereal disease; a chronic, specific, infectious
disease, usually communicated by sexual intercourse or by hereditary
transmission, and occurring in three stages known as primary,
secondary, and tertiary syphilis. See under Primary, Secondary, and
Tertiary.Treponema pallidum. Usu. tretable with penicillin or other
beta-lactam antibiotics.

SYPHILITIC
Syph`i*lit"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. syphilitique.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to syphilis; of the nature of syphilis;
affected with syphilis.
 -- n.

Defn: A syphilitic patient.

SYPHILITICALLY
Syph`i*lit"ic*al*ly, adv. (Med.)

Defn: In a syphilitic manner; with venereal disease.

SYPHILIZATION
Syph`i*li*za"tion, n. (Med.)

Defn: Inoculation with the syphilitic virus, especially when employed
as a preventive measure, like vaccination.

SYPHILIZE
Syph"i*lize, v. t. (Med.)

Defn: To inoculate with syphilis.

SYPHILODERM
Syph"i*lo*derm, n. Etym: [See Syphilis, and Derm.] (Med.)

Defn: A cutaneous affection due to syphilis.

SYPHILODERMATOUS
Syph`i*lo*der"ma*tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the cutaneous manifestations of syphilis.

SYPHILOID
Syph"i*loid, a. Etym: [Syphilis + -oid.] (Med.)

Defn: Resembling syphilis.

SYPHILOLOGIST
Syph`i*lol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in syphilology.

SYPHILOLOGY
Syph`i*lol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Syphilis + -logy.]

Defn: That branch of medicine which treats of syphilis.

SYPHON
Sy"phon, n.

Defn: See Syphon.

SYRACUSE
Syr"a*cuse, n.

Defn: A red wine of Italy.

SYREN
Sy"ren, n.

Defn: See Siren. [R.]

SYRIAC
Syr"i*ac, a. Etym: [L. Syriacus, from Syria: cf. F. syriaque.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Syria, or its language; as, the Syriac
version of the Pentateuch.
 -- n.

Defn: The language of Syria; especially, the ancient language of that
country.

SYRIACISM
Syr"i*a*cism, n.

Defn: A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism.

SYRIAN
Syr"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Syrius: cf. F. Syrien.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Syria; Syriac.
 -- n.

Defn: A native of Syria.

SYRIANISM
Syr"i*an*ism, n.

Defn: A Syrian idiom, or a peculiarity of the Syrian language; a
Syriacism. Paley.

SYRIASM
Syr"i*asm, n.

Defn: A Syrian idiom; a Syrianism; a Syriacism. M. Stuart.
The Scripture Greek is observed to be full of Syriasms and Hebraisms.
Bp. Warburton.

SYRINGA
Sy*rin"ga, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Syringe.] (Bot.)
(a) A genus of plants; the lilac.
(b) The mock orange; -- popularly so called because its stems were
formerly used as pipestems.

SYRINGE
Syr"inge, n. Etym: [F. seringue (cf. Pr. siringua, Sp. jeringa, It.
sciringa, scilinga), fg. Gr. svar to sound, and E. swarum. Cf.
Syringa.]

Defn: A kind of small hand-pump for throwing a stream of liquid, or
for purposes of aspiration. It consists of a small cylindrical barrel
and piston, or a bulb of soft elastic material, with or without
valves, and with a nozzle which is sometimes at the end of a flexible
tube; -- used for injecting animal bodies, cleansing wounds, etc.
Garden syringe. See Garden.

SYRINGE
Syr"inge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Syringed; p. pr. & vb. n. Syringing.]

1. To inject by means of a syringe; as, to syringe warm water into a
vein.

2. To wash and clean by injection from a syringe.

SYRINGEAL
Sy*rin"ge*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the syrinx; as, the syringeal muscle.

SYRINGIN
Sy*rin"gin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the bark of the lilac (Syringa) and
extracted as a white crystalline substance; -- formerly called also
lilacin.

SYRINGOCOELE
Sy*rin"go*coele, n. Etym: [Syrinx + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The central canal of the spinal cord. B. G. Wilder.

SYRINGOTOME
Sy*rin"go*tome, n. Etym: [Cf. F. syringotome. See Syringotomy.]
(Surg. & Anat.)

Defn: A small blunt-pointed bistoury, -- used in syringotomy.

SYRINGOTOMY
Syr`in*got"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr. syringotomie.] (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting for anal fistula.

SYRINX
Syr"inx, n.; pl. Syringes. Etym: [NL., from Gr.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument made of reeds tied together; -- called also
pandean pipes.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: The lower larynx in birds.

Note: In birds there are two laringes, an upper or true, but
voiceless, larynx in the usual position behind the tongue, and a
lower one, at or near the junction of the trachea and bronchi, which
is the true organ of the voice.

SYRMA
Syr"ma, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Class. Antiq.)

Defn: A long dress, trailing on the floor, worn by tragic actors in
Greek and Roman theaters.

SYRPHIAN
Syr"phi*an, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the syrphus flies.
 -- n. (Zool.)

Defn: A syrphus fly.

SYRPHUS FLY
Syr"phus fly`. Etym: [NL. Syrphus, the generic name, fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of dipterous flies of the genus
Syrphus and allied genera. They are usually bright-colored, with
yellow bands, and hover around plants. The larv? feed upon plant
lice, and are, therefore, very beneficial to agriculture.

SYRT
Syrt, n. Etym: [L. syrtis a sand bank in the sea, Gr. syrte.]

Defn: A quicksand; a bog. [R.] Young.

SYRTIC
Syr"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a syrt; resembling syrt, or quicksand. [R.]
Ed. Rev.

SYRTIS
Syr"tis, n.; pl. Syrtes. Etym: [See Syrt.]

Defn: A quicksand.
Quenched in a boggy syrtis, neither sea Nor good dry land. Milton.

SYRUP; SYRUPY
Syr"up, n., Syr"up*y, a. Etym: [See Sirup.]

Defn: Same as Sirup, Sirupy.

SYSSARCOSIS
Sys`sar*co"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The junction of bones by intervening muscles.

SYSTALTIC
Sys*tal"tic, a. Etym: [L. systalticus drawing together, Gr.
Sustaltic, Systole.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Capable of, or taking place by, alternate contraction and
dilatation; as, the systaltic action of the heart.

SYSTASIS
Sys"ta*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. System.]

Defn: A political union, confederation, or league. [R.] Burke.

SYSTEM
Sys"tem, n. Etym: [L. systema, Gr. systeme. See Stand.]

1. An assemblage of objects arranged in regular subordination, or
after some distinct method, usually logical or scientific; a complete
whole of objects related by some common law, principle, or end; a
complete exhibition of essential principles or facts, arranged in a
rational dependence or connection; a regular union of principles or
parts forming one entire thing; as, a system of philosophy; a system
of government; a system of divinity; a system of botany or chemistry;
a military system; the solar system.
The best way to learn any science, is to begin with a regular system,
or a short and plain scheme of that science well drawn up into a
narrow compass. I. Watts.

2. Hence, the whole scheme of created things regarded as forming one
complete plan of whole; the universe. "The great system of the
world." Boyle.

3. Regular method or order; formal arrangement; plan; as, to have a
system in one's business.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: The collection of staves which form a full score. See Score, n.

5. (Biol.)

Defn: An assemblage of parts or organs, either in animal or plant,
essential to the performance of some particular function or functions
which as a rule are of greater complexity than those manifested by a
single organ; as, the capillary system, the muscular system, the
digestive system, etc.; hence, the whole body as a functional unity.

6. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the stellate or irregular clusters of intimately united
zooids which are imbedded in, or scattered over, the surface of the
common tissue of many compound ascidians. Block system, Conservative
system, etc. See under Block, Conservative, etc.

SYSTEMATIC; SYSTEMATICAL
Sys`tem*at"ic, Sys`tem*at"ic*al, a. [Gr. systematique.]

1. Of or pertaining to system; consisting in system; methodical;
formed with regular connection and adaptation or subordination of
parts to each other, and to the design of the whole; as, a systematic
arrangement of plants or animals; a systematic course of study.
Now we deal much in essays, and unreasonably despise systematical
learning; whereas our fathers had a just value for regularity and
systems. I. Watts.
A representation of phenomena, in order to answer the purposes of
science, must be systematic. Whewell.

2. Proceeding according to system, or regular method; as, a
systematic writer; systematic benevolence.

3. Pertaining to the system of the world; cosmical.
These ends may be called cosmical, or systematical. Boyle.

4. (Med.)

Defn: Affecting successively the different parts of the system or set
of nervous fibres; as, systematic degeneration. Systematic theology.
See under Theology.

SYSTEMATICALLY
Sys`tem*at"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a systematic manner; methodically.

SYSTEMATISM
Sys"tem*a*tism, n.

Defn: The reduction of facts or principles to a system. Dunglison.

SYSTEMATIST
Sys"tem*a*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. systematiste.]

1. One who forms a system, or reduces to system.

2. One who adheres to a system.

SYSTEMATIZATION
Sys`tem*a*ti*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. systematization.]

Defn: The act or operation of systematizing.

SYSTEMATIZE
Sys"tem*a*tize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Systematized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Systematizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. systematiser. Cf. Systemize.]

Defn: To reduce to system or regular method; to arrange methodically;
to methodize; as, to systematize a collection of plants or minerals;
to systematize one's work; to systematize one's ideas.
Diseases were healed, and buildings erected, before medicine and
architecture were systematized into arts. Harris.

SYSTEMATIZER
Sys"tem*a*ti`zer, n.

Defn: One who systematizes.
Aristotle may be called the systematizer of his master's doctrines.
Harris.

SYSTEMATOLOGY
Sys`tem*a*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The doctrine of, or a treatise upon, systems. Dunglison.

SYSTEMIC
Sys*tem"ic, a.

1. Of or relating to a system; common to a system; as, the systemic
circulation of the blood.

2. (Anat. & Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the general system, or the body as a whole;
as, systemic death, in distinction from local death; systemic
circulation, in distinction from pulmonic circulation; systemic
diseases. Systemic death. See the Note under Death, n., 1.

SYSTEMIZATION
Sys`tem*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of systematizing; systematization.

SYSTEMIZE
Sys"tem*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Systemized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Systemizing.] Etym: [Cf. Systematize.]

Defn: To reduce to system; to systematize.

SYSTEMIZER
Sys"tem*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who systemizes, or reduces to system; a systematizer.

SYSTEMLESS
Sys"tem*less, a.

1. Being without system.

2. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Not agreeing with some artificial system of classification.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: Not having any of the distinct systems or types of structure,
as the radiate, articulate, etc., characteristic of organic nature;
as, all unicellular organisms are systemless.

SYSTOLE
Sys"to*le, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Gram.)

Defn: The shortening of the long syllable.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The contraction of the heart and arteries by which the blood is
forced onward and the circulation kept up; -- correlative to
diastole.

SYSTOLIC
Sys*tol"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to systole, or contraction; contracting; esp.,
ralating to the systole of the heart; as, systolic murmur. Dunglison.

SYSTYLE
Sys"tyle, a. Etym: [L. systylos, Gr. systyle.] (Arch.)

Defn: Having a space equal to two diameters or four modules between
two columns; -- said of a portico or building. See Intercolumniation.
 -- n.

Defn: A systyle temple or other edifice.

SYTH; SYTHE
Syth, Sythe, prep., adv., conj. & n.

Defn: See Sith, Sithe. [Obs.] Chaucer. Piers Plowman.

SYTHE
Sythe, n.

Defn: Scythe. [Obs. or R.]

SYZYGIAL
Sy*zyg"i*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a syzygy.

SYZYGY
Syz"y*gy, n.; pl. Syzygies. Etym: [L. syzygia a joining together,
conjunction, Gr. syzygie. See Yoke, n.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: The point of an orbit, as of the moon or a planet, at which it
is in conjunction or opposition; -- commonly used in the plural.

2. (Gr. & L. Pros.)

Defn: The coupling together of different feet; as, in Greek verse, an
iambic syzygy.

3. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of the segments of an arm of a crinoid composed of two
joints so closely united that the line of union is obliterated on the
outer, though visible on the inner, side.
(b) The immovable union of two joints of a crinoidal arm. Line of
syzygies (Astron.), the straight line connecting the earth, the sun,
and the moon or a planet, when the latter is in conjunction or
opposition; -- used chiefly of the moon.

TA
Ta, v. t.

Defn: To take. [Obs. or Scot.]  Cursor Mundi.

 Used by Chaucer to represent a peculiarity of the Northern dialect.

TAAS
Taas, n.

Defn: A heap. See Tas. [Obs.]  Chaucer.

TAB
Tab, n. [Etymol. uncertain.]

1. The flap or latchet of a shoe fastened with a string or a buckle.

2. A tag. See Tag, 2.

3. A loop for pulling or lifting something.

4. A border of lace or other material, worn on the inner front edge
of ladies' bonnets.

5. A loose pendent part of a lady's garment; esp., one of a series of
pendent squares forming an edge or border.

TABACCO
Ta*bac"co, n.

Defn: Tobacco. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

TABANUS
Ta*ba"nus, n. [L., horsefly.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of blood sucking flies, including the horseflies.

TABARD
Tab"ard, n. [OE. tabard, tabart; cf. Sp. & Pg. tabardo, It. tabarro,
W. tabar, LGr. , LL. tabardum.]

Defn: A sort of tunic or mantle formerly worn for protection from the
weather. When worn over the armor it was commonly emblazoned with the
arms of the wearer, and from this the name was given to the garment
adopted for heralds. [Spelt also taberd.]

In a tabard he [the Plowman] rode upon a mare.
Chaucer.

TABARDER
Tab"ard*er, n.

1. One who wears a tabard.

2. A scholar on the foundation of Queen's College, Oxford, England,
whose original dress was a tabard. Nares.

TABARET
Tab"a*ret, n. [Cf. Tabby.]

Defn: A stout silk having satin stripes, -- used for furniture.

TABASCO SAUCE
Ta*bas"co sauce. [So named after Tabasco, a river and state of
Mexico.]

Defn: A kind of very pungent sauce made from red peppers.

TABASHEER
Tab`a*sheer", n. [Per. tabashir: cf. Skr. tvakkshira, tvakshira.]

Defn: A concretion in the joints of the bamboo, which consists
largely or chiefly of pure silica. It is highly valued in the East
Indies as a medicine for the cure of bilious vomitings, bloody flux,
piles, and various other diseases.

TABBINET
Tab"bi*net, n. [Cf. Tabby.]

Defn: A fabric like poplin, with a watered surface. [Written also
tabinet.]

TABEFACTION
Tab`e*fac"tion, n. [See Tabefy.]

Defn: A wasting away; a gradual losing of flesh by disease.

TABEFY
Tab"e*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tabefied; p. pr. & vb. n. Tabefying.]
[L. tabere to waste away + -fy: cf. L. tabefacere to melt.]

Defn: To cause to waste gradually, to emaciate. [R.]  Harvey.

TABELLION
Ta*bel"lion, n. [L. tabellio, fr. tabella a tablet, a writing,
document, dim. of tabula a board: cf. F. tabellion. See Table.]

Defn: A secretary or notary under the Roman empire; also, a similar
officer in France during the old monarchy.

TABER
Ta"ber, v. i.

Defn: Same as Tabor.  Nahum ii. 7.

TABERD
Tab"erd, n.

Defn: See Tabard.

TABERNACLE
Tab"er*na*cle, n. [F., fr. L. tabernaculum, dim. of taberna nut. See
Tabern.]

1. A slightly built or temporary habitation; especially, a tent.

Dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob.
Heb. xi. 9.

Orange trees planted in the ground, and secured in winter with a
wooden tabernacle and stoves.
Evelyn.

2. (Jewish Antiq.) A portable structure of wooden framework covered
with curtains, which was carried through the wilderness in the
Israelitish exodus, as a place of sacrifice and worship.  Ex. xxvi.

3. Hence, the Jewish temple; sometimes, any other place for worship.
Acts xv. 16.

4. Figuratively: The human body, as the temporary abode of the soul.

Shortly I must put off this my tabernacle.
2 Pet. i. 14.

5. Any small cell, or like place, in which some holy or precious
things was deposited or kept. Specifically: --

(a) The ornamental receptacle for the pyx, or for the consecrated
elements, whether a part of a building or movable.

(b) A niche for the image of a saint, or for any sacred painting or
sculpture.

(c) Hence, a work of art of sacred subject, having a partially
architectural character, as a solid frame resting on a bracket, or
the like.

(d) A tryptich for sacred imagery.

(e) A seat or stall in a choir, with its canopy.

6. (Naut.) A boxlike step for a mast with the after side open, so
that the mast can be lowered to pass under bridges, etc.

Feast of Tabernacles (Jewish Antiq.), one of the three principal
festivals of the Jews, lasting seven days, during which the people
dwelt in booths formed of the boughs of trees, in commemoration of
the habitation of their ancestors in similar dwellings during their
pilgrimage in the wilderness. -- Tabernacle work, rich canopy work
like that over the head of niches, used over seats or stalls, or over
sepulchral monuments. Oxf. Gloss.

TABERNACLE
Tab"er*na*cle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tabernacled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tabernacling.]

Defn: To dwell or reside for a time; to be temporary housed.

He assumed our nature, and tabernacled among us in the flesh.
Dr. J. Scott.

TABERNACULAR
Tab`er*nac"u*lar, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a tabernacle, especially the Jewish
tabernacle.

2. Formed in latticework; latticed.  T. Warton.

3. Of or pertaining to huts or booths; hence, common; low. "Horribly
tabernacular."  De Quincey.

TABES
Ta"bes (ta"bez), n. [L., a wasting disease.] (Med.)

Defn: Progressive emaciation of the body, accompanied with hectic
fever, with no well-marked local symptoms.

Tabes dorsalis (dor*sa"lis) [NL., tabes of the back], locomotor
ataxia; -- sometimes called simply tabes. -- Tabes mesenterica [NL.,
mesenteric tabes], a wasting disease of childhood characterized by
chronic inflammation of the lymphatic glands of the mesentery,
attended with caseous degeneration.

TABESCENT
Ta*bes"cent, a. [L. tabescens wasting, p. pr. of tabescere.]

Defn: Withering, or wasting away.

TABETIC
Ta*bet"ic, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tabes; of the nature of tabes; affected
with tabes; tabid. -- n.

Defn: One affected with tabes.

TABID
Tab"id, a. [L. tabidus: cf. F. tabide. See Tabes.] (Med.)

Defn: Affected by tabes; tabetic.

In tabid persons, milk is the bset restorative.
Arbuthnot.

-- Tab"id*ly, adv. -- Tab"id*ness, n.

TABIFIC; TABIFICAL
Ta*bif"ic, Ta*bif"ic*al, a. [Tabes + L. facere to make.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing tabes; wasting; tabefying.

TABINET
Tab"inet, n.

Defn: See Tabbinet.  Thackeray.

TABLATURE
Tab"la*ture, n. [Cf. F. tablature ancient mode of musical notation.
See Table.]

1. (Paint.) A painting on a wall or ceiling; a single piece
comprehended in one view, and formed according to one design; hence,
a picture in general.  Shaftesbury.

2. (Mus.) An ancient mode of indicating musical sounds by letters and
other signs instead of by notes.

The chimes of bells are so rarely managed that I went up to that of
Sir Nicholas, where I found who played all sorts of compositions from
the tablature before him as if he had fingered an organ.
Evelyn.

3. (Anat.) Division into plates or tables with intervening spaces;
as, the tablature of the cranial bones.

TABLE
Ta"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tableed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tableing.]

1. To form into a table or catalogue; to tabulate; as, to table
fines.

2. To delineate, as on a table; to represent, as in a picture. [Obs.]
Tabled and pictured in the chambers of meditation. Bacon.

3. To supply with food; to feed. [Obs.] Milton.

4. (Carp.)

Defn: To insert, as one piece of timber into another, by alternate
scores or projections from the middle, to prevent slipping; to scarf.

5. To lay or place on a table, as money. Carlyle.

6. In parliamentary usage, to lay on the table; to postpone, by a
formal vote, the consideration of (a bill, motion, or the like) till
called for, or indefinitely.

7. To enter upon the docket; as, to table charges against some one.

8. (Naut.)

Defn: To make board hems in the skirts and bottoms of (sails) in
order to strengthen them in the part attached to the boltrope.

TABLE
Ta"ble, v. i.

Defn: To live at the table of another; to board; to eat. [Obs.] "He .
. . was driven from the society of men to table with the beasts."
South.

TABLEAU
Ta`bleau", n.; pl. Tableaux. Etym: [F., dim. fr. L. tabula a
painting. See Table.]

1. A striking and vivid representation; a picture.

2. A representation of some scene by means of persons grouped in the
proper manner, placed in appropriate postures, and remaining silent
and motionless.

TABLEAU VIVANT
Ta`bleau" vi`vant"; pl. Tableaux vivants. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Tableau, n., 2.

TABLEBOOK
Ta"ble*book`, n.

Defn: A tablet; a notebook.
Put into your tablebook whatever you judge worthly. Dryden.

TABLECLOTH
Ta"ble*cloth`, n.

Defn: A cloth for covering a table, especially one with which a table
is covered before the dishes, etc., are set on for meals.

TABLE D'HOTE
Ta"ble d'hote"; pl. Tables d'hote. Etym: [F., literally, table of the
landlord.]

Defn: A common table for guests at a hotel; an ordinary.

TABLE-LAND
Ta"ble-land`, n.

Defn: A broad, level, elevated area of land; a plateau.
The toppling crags of Duty scaled, Are close upon the shining table-
lands To which our God himself is moon and sun. Tennyson.

TABLEMAN
Ta"ble*man, n.; pl. Tablemen (.

Defn: A man at draughts; a piece used in playing games at tables. See
Table, n., 10. [R.] Bacon.

TABLEMENT
Ta"ble*ment, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A table. [Obs.]
Tablements and chapters of pillars. Holland.

TABLER
Ta"bler, n.

1. One who boards. [Obs.]

2. One who boards others for hire. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

TABLESPOON
Ta"ble*spoon`, n.

Defn: A spoon of the largest size commonly used at the table; --
distinguished from teaspoon, dessert spoon, etc.

TABLESPOONFUL
Ta"ble*spoon`ful, n.; pl. Tablespoonfuls (.

Defn: As much as a tablespoon will hold; enough to fill a tablespoon.
It is usually reckoned as one half of a fluid ounce, or four fluid
drams.

TABLET
Ta"blet, n. Etym: [F. tablette, dim. of table. See Table.]

1. A small table or flat surface.

2. A flat piece of any material on which to write, paint, draw, or
engrave; also, such a piece containing an inscription or a picture.

3. Hence, a small picture; a miniature. [Obs.]

4. pl.

Defn: A kind of pocket memorandum book.

5. A flattish cake or piece; as, tablets of arsenic were formerly
worn as a preservative against the plague.

6. (Pharm.)

Defn: A solid kind of electuary or confection, commonly made of dry
ingredients with sugar, and usually formed into little flat squares;
-- called also lozenge, and troche, especially when of a round or
rounded form.

TABLEWARE
Ta"ble*ware`, n.

Defn: Ware, or articles collectively, for table use.

TABLE WORK
Table work. (Print.)

Defn: Typesetting of tabular nmatter, or the type matter set in
tabular form.

TABLING
Ta"bling, n.

1. A forming into tables; a setting down in order.

2. (Carp.)

Defn: The letting of one timber into another by alternate scores or
projections, as in shipbuilding.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: A broad hem on the edge of a sail. Totten.

4. Board; support. [Obs.] Trence in English (1614).

5. Act of playing at tables. See Table, n., 10. [Obs.] Tabling house,
a gambling house. [Obs.] Northbrooke.

TABLOID
Tab"loid, n. [A table-mark.]

Defn: A compressed portion of one or more drugs or chemicals, or of
food, etc.

TABLOID
Tab"loid, a.

Defn: Compressed or condensed, as into a tabloid; administrated in or
as in tabloids, or small condensed bits; as, a tabloid form of
imparting information.

TABOO
Ta*boo", n.

Defn: A total prohibition of intercourse with, use of, or approach
to, a given person or thing under pain of death, -- an interdict of
religious origin and authority, formerly common in the islands of
Polynesia; interdiction. [Written also tabu.]

TABOO
Ta*boo", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tabooed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tabooing.]

Defn: To put under taboo; to forbid, or to forbid the use of; to
interdict approach to, or use of; as, to taboo the ground set apart
as a sanctuary for criminals. [Written also tabu.]

TABOR
Ta"bor, n. Etym: [OF. tabor, tabour, F. tambour; cf. Pr. tabor,
tanbor, Sp. & Pg. tambor, atambor, It. tamburo; all fr. Ar. & Per.
tamb a kind of lute, or giutar, or Per. tabir a drum. Cf. Tabouret,
Tambour.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small drum used as an accompaniment to a pipe or fife, both
being played by the same person. [Written also tabour, and taber.]

TABOR
Ta"bor, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tabored; p. pr. & vb. n. Taboring.] Etym:
[Cf. OF. taborer.] [Written also tabour.]

1. To play on a tabor, or little drum.

2. To strike lightly and frequently.

TABOR
Ta"bor, v. t.

Defn: To make (a sound) with a tabor.

TABORER
Ta"bor*er, n.

Defn: One who plays on the tabor. Shak.

TABORET
Tab"o*ret, n. Etym: [Dim. of tabor. Cf. Tabret.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small tabor. [Written also tabouret.]

TABORINE
Tab"o*rine, n. Etym: [OF. tabourin, F. tambourin. See Tabor, and cf.
Tambourine.] (Mus.)

Defn: A small, shallow drum; a tabor.

TABORITE
Ta"bor*ite, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of certain Bohemian reformers who suffered persecution in
the fifteenth century; -- so called from Tabor, a hill or fortress
where they encamped during a part of their struggles.

TABOUR
Ta"bour, n. & v.

Defn: See Tabor.

TABOURET
Tab"ou*ret, n. Etym: [F., dim. of OF. tabor, tabour, drum. See
Tabor.]

1. Same as Taboret.

2. A seat without arms or back, cushioned and stuffed: a high stool;
-- so called from its resemblance to a drum.

3. An embroidery frame. Knight. Right of the tabouret, the privilege
of sitting on a tabouret in the presence of the severeign, formerly
granted to certain ladies of high rank at the French court.

TABRERE
Tab"rere, n.

Defn: A taborer. [Obs.] Spenser.

TABRET
Tab"ret, n.

Defn: A taboret. Young.

TABU
Ta*bu", n. & v.

Defn: See Taboo.

TABULA
Tab"u*la, n.; pl. Tabul?. Etym: [L.]

1. A table; a tablet.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the transverse plants found in the calicles of certain
corals and hydroids. Tabula rasa ( Etym: [L.], a smoothed tablet;
hence, figuratively, the mind in its earliest state, before receiving
impressions from without; -- a term used by Hobbes, Locke, and
others, in maintaining a theory opposed to the doctrine of innate
ideas.

TABULAR
Tab"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. tabularis, fr. tabula a board, table. See
Table.]

Defn: Having the form of, or pertaining to, a table (in any of the
uses of the word). Specifically: --
(a) Having a flat surface; as, a tabular rock.
(b) Formed into a succession of flakes; laminated.
Nodules . . . that are tabular and plated. Woodward.

(c) Set in squares. [R.]
(d) Arranged in a schedule; as, tabular statistics.
(e) Derived from, or computed by, the use of tables; as, tabular
right ascension. Tabular difference (Math.), the difference between
two consecutive numbers in a table, sometimes printed in its proper
place in the table.
 -- Tabular spar (Min.), wollastonite.

TABULARIZATION
Tab`u*lar*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of tabularizing, or the state of being tabularized;
formation into tables; tabulation.

TABULARIZE
Tab"u*lar*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tabularized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tabularizing.]

Defn: To tabulate.

TABULATA
Tab`u*la"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. tabulatus floored.] (Zool.)

Defn: An artificial group of stony corals including those which have
transverse septa in the calicles. The genera Pocillopora and
Favosites are examples.

TABULATE
Tab"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tabulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tabulating.] Etym: [L. tabula a table. See Tabular.]

1. To form into a table or tables; to reduce to tables or synopses.
A philosophy is not worth the having, unless its results may be
tabulated, and put in figures. I. Taylor.

2. To shape with a flat surface.

TABULATION
Tab`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: The act of forming into a table or tables; as, the tabulation
of statistics.

TAC
Tac, n. Etym: [Cf. Tack, n., 4.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A kind of customary payment by a tenant; -- a word used in old
records. Cowell. Burrill.

TACAMAHAC; TACAMAHACA
Tac"a*ma*hac`, Tac`a*ma*ha"ca, n.

1. A bitter balsamic resin obtained from tropical American trees of
the genus Elaphrium (E. tomentosum and E. Tacamahaca), and also from
East Indian trees of the genus Calophyllum; also, the resinous
exhudation of the balsam poplar.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Any tree yielding tacamahac resin, especially, in North
America, the balsam poplar, or balm of Gilead (Populus balsamifera).

TACAUD
Ta*caud", n. Etym: [Cf. F. tacaud. See Tomcod.] (Zool.)

Defn: The bib, or whiting pout. [Prov. Eng.]

TAC-AU-TAC
Tac`-au-tac", n. [F., fr. riposter du tac au tac to parry (where tac
imitates the sound made by the steel).] (Fencing)

Defn: The parry which is connected with a riposte; also, a series of
quick attacks and parries in which neither fencer gains a point.

TACE
Tace, n.

Defn: The cross, or church, of St. Antony. See Illust. (6), under
Cross, n. Mollett.

TACE
Tace, n.

Defn: See Tasse. Fairholt.

TACET
Ta"cet, v.impers. Etym: [L., it is silent, 3d pers.pr. of tacere to
be silent.] (Mus.)

Defn: It is silent; -- a direction for a vocal or instrumental part
to be silent during a whole movement.

TACHE
Tache, n. Etym: [See Tack a kind of nail.]

Defn: Something used for taking hold or holding; a catch; a loop; a
button. [Obs.] Ex. xxvi. 6.

TACHE
Tache, n. Etym: [F. tache spot. See Techy.]

Defn: A spot, stain, or blemish. [Obs.] Warner.

TACHHYDRITE
Tach*hy"drite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous chloride of calcium and magnesium occurring in
yellowish masses which rapidly deliquesce upon exposure. It is found
in the salt mines at Stassfurt.

TACHINA
Tach"i*na, n.; pl. Tachin?. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Diptera belonging to Tachina and
allied genera. Their larv? are external parasites of other insects.

TACHISTOSCOPE
Ta*chis"to*scope, n. [Gr. , superl. of  swift + -scope.] (Physiol.)

Defn: An apparatus for exposing briefly to view a screen bearing
letters or figures. It is used in studying the range of attention, or
the power of distinguishing separate objects in a single impression.

TACHOGRAPH
Tach"o*graph, n. [Gr.  speed + -graph.]

Defn: A recording or registering tachometer; also, its autographic
record.

TACHOMETER
Ta*chom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter: cf. F. tachometre.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the velocity, or indicating changes
in the velocity, of a moving body or substance. Specifically: --
(a) An instrument for measuring the velocity of running water in a
river or canal, consisting of a wheel with inclined vanes, which is
turned by the current. The rotations of the wheel are recorded by
clockwork.
(b) An instrument for showing at any moment the speed of a revolving
shaft, consisting of a delicate revolving conical pendulum which is
driven by the shaft, and the action of which by change of speed moves
a pointer which indicates the speed on a graduated dial.
(c) (Physiol.) An instrument for measuring the velocity of the blood;
a h?matachometer.

TACHOMETRY
Ta*chom"e*try, n.

Defn: Measurement by a tachometer; the science or use of tachometers.

TACHYDIDAXY
Tach"y*di*dax`y, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A short or rapid method of instructing. [R.]

TACHYGLOSSA
Tach`y*glos"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of monotremes which comprises the spiny ant-eaters
of Australia and New Guinea. See Illust. under Echidna.

TACHYGRAPH
Tach"y*graph, n.

Defn: An example of tachygraphy; esp., an ancient Greek or Roman
tachygraphic manuscript.

TACHYGRAPHER
Ta*chyg"ra*pher, n. [Gr.  a fast writer.]

Defn: One who writes shorthand; a stenographer; esp., an ancient
Greek or Roman notary.

TACHYGRAPHIC; TACHYGRAPHICAL
Tach`y*graph"ic, Tach`y*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
tachygraphique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to tachygraphy; written in shorthand.

TACHYGRAPHY
Ta*chyg"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy: cf. F. tachygraphie.]

Defn: The art or practice of rapid writing; shorthand writing;
stenography. I. Taylor (The Alphabet).

TACHYLYTE
Tach"y*lyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A vitreous form of basalt; -- so called because decompposable
by acids and readily fusible.

TACHYMETER
Ta*chym"e*ter, n.  [Tachy- + -meter.]

1. (Surveying) An instrument, esp. a transit or theodolite with
stadia wires, for determining quickly the distances, bearings, and
elevations of distant objects.

2.  A speed indicator; a tachometer.

TACHYMETRY
Ta*chym"e*try, n.

Defn: The science or use of the tachymeter. -- Ta`chy*met"ric (#), a.

TACHYSCOPE
Tach"y*scope, n. [Gr.  quick + -scope.]

Defn: An early form of antimated-picture machine, devised in 1889 by
Otto Anschutz of Berlin, in which the chronophotographs were mounted
upon the periphery of a rotating wheel.

TACIT
Tac"it, a. Etym: [L. tacitus, p.p. of tacere to be silent, to pass
over in silence; akin to Goth. to be silent, Icel. , OHG. dagen: cf.
F. tacite. Cf. Reticent.]

Defn: Done or made in silence; implied, but not expressed; silent;
as, tacit consent is consent by silence, or by not interposing an
objection.
 -- Tac"it*ly, adv.
The tacit and secret theft of abusing our brother in civil contracts.
Jer. Taylor.

TACITURN
Tac"i*turn, a. Etym: [L. taciturnus: cf. F. taciturne. See Tacit.]

Defn: Habitually silent; not given to converse; not apt to talk or
speak.
 -- Tac"i*turn*ly, adv.

Syn.
 -- Silent; reserved. Taciturn, Silent. Silent has reference to the
act; taciturn, to the habit. A man may be silent from circumstances;
he is taciturn from disposition. The loquacious man is at times
silent; one who is taciturn may now and then make an effort at
conversation.

TACITURNITY
Tac`i*tur"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. taciturnitas: cf. F. taciturnite.]

Defn: Habilual silence, or reserve in speaking.
The cause of Addison's taciturnity was a natural diffidence in the
company of strangers. V. Knox.
The taciturnity and the short answers which gave so much offense.
Macaulay.

TACK
Tack, n. Etym: [From an old or dialectal form of F. tache. See
Techy.]

1. A stain; a tache. [Obs.]

2. Etym: [Cf. L. tactus.]

Defn: A peculiar flavor or taint; as, a musty tack. [Obs. or Colloq.]
Drayton.

TACK
Tack, n. Etym: [OE. tak, takke, a fastening; akin to D. tak a branch,
twig, G. zacke a twig, prong, spike, Dan. takke a tack, spike; cf.
also Sw. tagg prickle, point, Icel. tag a willow twig, Ir. taca a
peg, nail, fastening, Gael. tacaid, Armor. & Corn. tach; perhaps akin
to E. take. Cf. Attach, Attack, Detach, Tag an end, Zigzag.]

1. A small, short, sharp-pointed nail, usually having a broad, flat
head.

2. That which is attached; a supplement; an appendix. See Tack, v.
t., 3. Macaulay.
Some tacks had been made to money bills in King Charles's time. Bp.
Burnet.

3. (Naut.)
(a) A rope used to hold in place the foremost lower corners of the
courses when the vessel is closehauled (see Illust. of Ship); also, a
rope employed to pull the lower corner of a studding sail to the
boom.
(b) The part of a sail to which the tack is usually fastened; the
foremost lower corner of fore-and-aft sails, as of schooners (see
Illust. of Sail).
(c) The direction of a vessel in regard to the trim of her sails; as,
the starboard tack, or port tack; -- the former when she is
closehauled with the wind on her starboard side; hence, the run of a
vessel on one tack; also, a change of direction.

4. (Scots Law)

Defn: A contract by which the use of a thing is set, or let, for
hire; a lease. Burrill.

5. Confidence; reliance. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Tack of a flag
(Naut.), a line spliced into the eye at the foot of the hoist for
securing the flag to the halyards.
 -- Tack pins (Naut.), belaying pins; -- also called jack pins.
 -- To haul the tacks aboard (Naut.), to set the courses.
 -- To hold tack, to last or hold out. Milton.

TACK
Tack, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Tacking.] Etym:
[Cf. OD. tacken to touch, take, seize, fix, akin to E. take. See Tack
a small nail.]

1. To fasten or attach. "In hopes of getting some commendam tacked to
their sees." Swift.
And tacks the center to the sphere. Herbert.

2. Especially, to attach or secure in a slight or hasty manner, as by
stitching or nailing; as, to tack together the sheets of a book; to
tack one piece of cloth to another; to tack on a board or shingle; to
tack one piece of metal to another by drops of solder.

3. In parliamentary usage, to add (a supplement) to a bill; to
append; -- often with on or to. Macaulay.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: To change the direction of (a vessel) when sailing closehauled,
by putting the helm alee and shifting the tacks and sails so that she
will proceed to windward nearly at right angles to her former course.

Note: In tacking, a vessel is brought to point at first directly to
windward, and then so that the wind will blow against the other side.

TACK
Tack, v. i. (Naut.)

Defn: To change the direction of a vessel by shifting the position of
the helm and sails; also (as said of a vessel), to have her direction
changed through the shifting of the helm and sails. See Tack, v. t.,
4.
Monk, . . . when he wanted his ship to tack to larboard, moved the
mirth of his crew by calling out, "Wheel to the left." Macaulay.

TACKER
Tack"er, n.

Defn: One who tacks.

TACKET
Tack"et, n. Etym: [Dim. of tack a small nail.]

Defn: A small, broad-headed nail. [Scot.] Jamieson.

TACKEY
Tack"ey, a. & n.

Defn: See Tacky.

TACKING
Tack"ing, n. (Law)

Defn: A union of securities given at different times, all of which
must be redeemed before an intermediate purchaser can interpose his
claim. Bouvier.

Note: The doctrine of tacking is not recognized in American law.
Kent.

TACKLE
Tac"kle (; sometimes improperly pronounced , especially by seamen),
n. Etym: [OE. takel, akin to LG. & D. takel, Dan. takkel, Sw. tackel;
perhaps akin to E. taw, v.t., or to take.]

1. Apparatus for raising or lowering heavy weights, consisting of a
rope and pulley blocks; sometimes, the rope and attachments, as
distinct from the block.

2. Any instruments of action; an apparatus by which an object is
moved or operated; gear; as, fishing tackle, hunting tackle;
formerly, specifically, weapons. "She to her tackle fell." Hudibras.

Note: In Chaucer, it denotes usually an arrow or arrows.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The rigging and apparatus of a ship; also, any purchase where
more than one block is used. Fall and tackle. See the Note under
Pulley.
 -- Fishing tackle. See under Fishing, a.
 -- Ground tackle (Naut.), anchors, cables, etc.
 -- Gun tackle, the apparatus or appliances for hauling cannon in or
out.
 -- Tackle fall, the rope, or rather the end of the rope, of a
tackle, to which the power is applied.
 -- Tack tackle (Naut.), a small tackle to pull down the tacks of the
principal sails.
 -- Tackle board, Tackle post (Ropemaking), a board, frame, or post,
at the end of a ropewalk, for supporting the spindels, or whirls, for
twisting the yarns.

TACKLE
Tac"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tackled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tackling.]
Etym: [Cf. LG. takeln to equip. See Tackle, n.]

1. To supply with tackle. Beau. & Fl.

2. To fasten or attach, as with a tackle; to harness; as, to tackle a
horse into a coach or wagon. [Colloq.]

3. To seize; to lay hold of; to grapple; as, a wrestler tackles his
antagonist; a dog tackles the game.
The greatest poetess of our day has wasted her time and strength in
tackling windmills under conditions the most fitted to insure her
defeat. Dublin Univ. Mag.

Defn: To begin to deal with; as, to tackle the problem.

TACKLED
Tac"kled, a.

Defn: Made of ropes tacked together.
My man shall be with thee, And bring thee cords made like a tackled
stair. Shak.

TACKLING
Tac"kling, n. (Naut.)

1. Furniture of the masts and yards of a vessel, as cordage, sails,
etc.

2. Instruments of action; as, fishing tackling. Walton.

3. The straps and fixures adjusted to an animal, by which he draws a
carriage, or the like; harness.

TACKSMAN
Tacks"man, n.; pl. Tacksmen (. (Scots Law)

Defn: One who holds a tack or lease from another; a tenant, or
lessee. Sir W. Scott.
The tacksmen, who formed what may be called the "peerage" of the
little community, must be the captains. Macaulay.

TACKY
Tack"y, a. Etym: [Cf. Techy, Tack a spot.]

Defn: Sticky; adhesive; raw; -- said of paint, varnish, etc., when
not well dried. [U. S.]

TACONIC
Ta*con"ic, a. (Geol.)

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, the series of rocks forming the
Taconic mountains in Western New England. They were once supposed to
be older than the Cambrian, but later proved to belong to the Lower
Silurian and Cambrian.

TACT
Tact, n. Etym: [L. tactus a touching, touch, fr. tangere, tactum, to
touch: cf. F. tact. See Tangent.]

1. The sense of touch; feeling.
Did you suppose that I could not make myself sensible to tact as well
as sight Southey.
Now, sight is a very refined tact. J. Le Conte.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: The stroke in beating time.

3. Sensitive mental touch; peculiar skill or faculty; nice perception
or discernment; ready power of appreciating and doing what is
required by circumstances.
He had formed plans not inferior in grandeur and boldness to those of
Richelieu, and had carried them into effect with a tact and wariness
worthy of Mazarin. Macaulay.
A tact which surpassed the tact of her sex as much as the tact of her
sex surpassed the tact of ours. Macaulay.

TACTABLE
Tac"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being touched; tangible. [R.] "They [women] being
created to be both tractable and tactable." Massinger.

TACTFUL
Tact"ful, a.

Defn: Full of tact; characterized by a discerning sense of what is
right, proper, or judicious.

TACTIC; TACTICAL
Tac"tic, Tac"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. tactics.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the art of military and naval tactics.
 -- Tac"tic*al*ly, adv.

TACTIC
Tac"tic, n.

Defn: See Tactics.

TACTICIAN
Tac*ti"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tacticien.]

Defn: One versed in tactics; hence, a skillful maneuverer; an adroit
manager.

TACTICS
Tac"tics, n. Etym: [Gr. tactique.]

1. The science and art of disposing military and naval forces in
order for battle, and performing military and naval evolutions. It is
divided into grand tactics, or the tactics of battles, and elementary
tactics, or the tactics of instruction.

2. Hence, any system or method of procedure.

TACTILE
Tac"tile, a. Etym: [L. tactilis, fr. tangere, tactum, to touch: cf.
F. tactile.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the organs, or the sense, of touch;
perceiving, or perceptible, by the touch; capable of being touched;
as, tactile corpuscles; tactile sensations. "Tactile sweets."
Beaumont. "Tactile qualities." Sir M. Hale. Tactile sense (Physiol.),
the sense of touch, or pressure sense. See Touch.
The delicacy of the tactile sense varies on different parts of the
skin; it is geatest on the forehead, temples and back of the forearm.
H. N. Martin.

TACTILITY
Tac*til"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tactilite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being tactile; perceptibility by touch;
tangibleness.

TACTION
Tac"tion, n. Etym: [L. tactio, from tangere, tactum, to touch.]

Defn: The act of touching; touch; contact; tangency. "External
taction." Chesterfield.

TACTLESS
Tact"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of tact.

TACTUAL
Tac"tu*al, a. Etym: [See Tact.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sense, or the organs, of touch; derived
from touch.
In the lowest organisms we have a kind of tactual sense diffused over
the entire body. Tyndall.

TADPOLE
Tad"pole`, n. Etym: [OE. tadde toad (AS. tadie, tadige) + poll;
properly, a toad that is or seems all head. See Toad, and Poll.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: The young aquatic larva of any amphibian. In this stage it
breathes by means of external or internal gills, is at first
destitute of legs, and has a finlike tail. Called also polliwig,
polliwog, porwiggle, or purwiggy.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.] Tadpole fish. (Zool.) See
Forkbeard (a).

TAEDIUM
T?"di*um, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: See Tedium.

TAEL
Tael, n. Etym: [Malay ta, a certain weight, probably fr. Hind. tola,
Skr. tula a balance, weight, tul to weigh.]

Defn: A denomination of money, in China, worth nearly six shillings
sterling, or about a dollar and forty cents; also, a weight of one
ounce and a third. [Written also tale.]

TAEN; TA'EN
Taen, or Ta'en,

Defn: p. p. of Ta, to take, or a contraction of Taken. [Poetic &
Scot.] Burns.

TAENIA
T?"ni*a, n.; pl. T?ni?. Etym: [L., a ribbon, a tapeworm.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of intestinal worms which includes the common tapeworms
of man. See Tapeworm.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A band; a structural line; -- applied to several bands and
lines of nervous matter in the brain.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The fillet, or band, at the bottom of a Doric frieze,
separating it from the architrave.

TAENIACIDE; TENIACIDE
T?"ni*a*cide`, n. Also Te"ni*a*cide` . [T?nia + -cide.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy to destroy tapeworms.

TAENIADA
T?*ni"a*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as T?nioidea.

TAENIAFUGE; TENIAFUGE
T?"ni*a*fuge`, n. Also Te"ni*a*fuge`. [T?nia + L. fugare to drive
away.] (Med.)

Defn: A remedy to expel tapeworms.

TAENIASIS; TENIASIS
T?*ni"a*sis, n. Also Te*ni"a*sis. [NL. See T?nia.] (Med.)

Defn: Ill health due to t?nia, or tapeworms.

TAENIATA
T?`ni*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. taenia a ribbon.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of Ctenophora including those which have a long,
ribbonlike body. The Venus's girdle is the most familiar example.

TAENIDIUM
T?*nid"i*um, n.; pl. T?nidia. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. L. taenia a
ribbon.] (Zool.)

Defn: The chitinous fiber forming the spiral thread of the trache? of
insects. See Illust. of Trachea.

TAENIOGLOSSA
T?`ni*o*glos"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An extensive division of gastropod mollusks in which the
odontophore is long and narrow, and usually bears seven rows of
teeth. It includes a large number of families both marine and fresh-
water.

TAENIOGLOSSATE
T?`ni*o*glos"sate, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the T?nioglossa.

TAENIOID
T?"ni*oid, a. Etym: [T?nia + -oid.]

1. Ribbonlike; shaped like a ribbon.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to T?nia.

TAENIOIDEA
T?`ni*oi"de*a, n. pl. (Zool.)

Defn: The division of cestode worms which comprises the tapeworms.
See Tapeworm.

TAENIOLA
T?*ni"o*la, n.; pl. T?niol?. Etym: [L., dim. of taenia a ribbon.]
(Zool.)

Defn: One of the radial partitions which separate the internal
cavities of certain medus?.

TAENIOSOMI
T?`ni*o*so"mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of fishes remarkable for their long and compressed
form. The ribbon fishes are examples. See Ribbon fish, under Ribbon.

TAFFERER
Taf"fer*er, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Taffrail.

TAFFETA; TAFFETY
Taf"fe*ta, Taf"fe*ty, n. Etym: [F. taffetas, It. taffeta, from Per.
taftah, originally, twisted, woven, from taftan to twist, to spin.]

Defn: A fine, smooth stuff of silk, having usually the wavy luster
called watering. The term has also been applied to different kinds of
silk goods, from the 16th century to modern times.
Lined with taffeta and with sendal. Chaucer.

TAFFRAIL
Taff"rail, n. Etym: [D. tafereel a panel, picture, fr. tafel table,
fr. L. tabula. See Table.] (Naut.)

Defn: The upper part of a ship's stern, which is flat like a table on
the top, and sometimes ornamented with carved work; the rail around a
ship's stern. [Written also tafferel.]

TAFFY
Taf"fy, n. Etym: [Prov. E. taffy toffy.]

1. A kind of candy made of molasses or brown sugar boiled down and
poured out in shallow pans. [Written also, in England, toffy.]

2. Flattery; soft phrases. [Slang]

TAFIA
Taf"i*a, n. Etym: [Cf. F. & Sp. tafia, It. taffia; fr. Malay tafia a
spirit distilled from molasses. Cf. Ratafia.]

Defn: A variety of rum. [West Indies]

TAG
Tag, n. Etym: [Probably akin to tack a small nail; cf. Sw. tagg a
prickle, point, tooth.]

1. Any slight appendage, as to an article of dress; something slight
hanging loosely; specifically, a direction card, or label.

2. A metallic binding, tube, or point, at the end of a string, or
lace, to stiffen it.

3. The end, or catchword, of an actor's speech; cue.

4. Something mean and paltry; the rabble. [Obs.] Tag and rag, the
lowest sort; the rabble. Holinshed.

5. A sheep of the first year. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

Defn: A sale of usually used items (such as furniture, clothing,
household items or bric-a-brac), conducted by one or a small group of
individuals, at a location which is not a normal retail
establishment.

Note: Frequently it is held in the private home or in a yard attached
to a private home belonging to the seller. Similar to a yard sale or
garage sale. Compare flea market, where used items are sold by many
individuals in a place rented for the purpose.

TAG
Tag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Tagging.]

1. To fit with, or as with, a tag or tags.
He learned to make long-tagged thread laces. Macaulay.
His courteous host . . . Tags every sentence with some fawning word.
Dryden.

2. To join; to fasten; to attach. Bolingbroke.

3. To follow closely after; esp., to follow and touch in the game of
tag. See Tag, a play.

TAG
Tag, v. i.

Defn: To follow closely, as it were an appendage; -- often with
after; as, to tag after a person.

TAG
Tag, n. Etym: [From Tag, v.; cf. Tag, an end.]

Defn: A child's play in which one runs after and touches another, and
then runs away to avoid being touched.

TAGAL
Ta*gal", n.

1. One of a Malayan race, mainly of central Luzon, next to the
Visayans the most numerous of the native peoples of the Philippines.
Nearly all are Christians and many are highly educated.

2.  The language of the Tagals; Tagalog.

TAGALOG
Ta*ga"log, n.

1. (Ethnol.) Any member of a certain tribe which is one of the
leading and most civilized of those native of the Philippine Islands.

2.  The language of the Tagalogs. It belongs to the Malay family of
languages and is one of the most highly developed members of the
family.

TAGBELT
Tag"belt`, n. (Far.)

Defn: Same as Tagsore. [Obs.]

TAG DAY
Tag day.

Defn: A day on which contributions to some public or private charity
or fund are solicited promiscuously on the street, and tags given to
contributors to wear as an evidence of their having contributed. Such
solicitation is now subject to legal restriction in various places.

TAGGER
Tag"ger, n.

1. One who, or that which, appends or joins one thing to another.

2. That which is pointed like a tag.
Hedgehogs' or procupines' small taggers. Cotton.

3. pl.

Defn: Sheets of tin or other plate which run below the gauge. Knight.

4. A device for removing taglocks from sheep. Knight.

TAGLET
Tag"let, n.

Defn: A little tag.

TAGLIA
Tagl"ia, n. Etym: [It., a cutting, a pulley, from tagliare to cut.
See Tailor.] (Mech.)

Defn: A peculiar combination of pulleys. Brande & C.

TAGLIACOTAIN
Tagl`ia*co"tain, a. (Surg.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tagliacozzi, a Venetian surgeon; as, the
Tagliacotian operation, a method of rhinoplasty described by him.
[Also Taliacotian, and Tagliacozzian.]

TAGLIONI
Tagl*io"ni, n.

Defn: A kind of outer coat, or overcoat; -- said to be so named after
a celebrated Italian family of professional dancers.
He ought certainly to exchange his taglioni, or comfortable
greatcoat, for a cuirass of steel. Sir W. Scott.

TAGLOCK
Tag"lock`, n.

Defn: An entangled lock, as of hair or wool. Nares.

TAGNICATE
Tag"ni*cate, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The white-lipped peccary.

TAG-RAG
Tag"-rag`, n. & a. Etym: [See Tag an end, and Rag.]

Defn: The lowest class of people; the rabble. Cf. Rag, tag, and
bobtail, under Bobtail.
If the tag-rag people did not clap him and hiss him, I am no true
man. Shak.

TAGSORE
Tag"sore`, n. (Far.)

Defn: Adhesion of the tail of a sheep to the wool from excoriation
produced by contact with the feces; -- called also tagbelt. [Obs.]

TAGTAIL
Tag"tail`, n.

1. A worm which has its tail conspicuously colored.

2. A person who attaches himself to another against the will of the
latter; a hanger-on.

TAGUAN
Tag"u*an, n. Etym: [From the native name in the East Indies.] (Zool.)

Defn: A large flying squirrel (Pteromys petuarista). Its body becomes
two feet long, with a large bushy tail nearly as long.

TAGUICATI
Ta`gui*ca"ti, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zool.)

Defn: The white-lipped peccary.

TAHA
Ta"ha, n.

Defn: The African rufous-necked weaver bird (Hyphantornis texor).

TAHALEB
Ta*ha"leb, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zool.)

Defn: A fox (Vulpes Niloticus) of Northern Africa.

TAHITIAN
Ta*hi"ti*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tahiti, an island in the Pacific Ocean.
 -- n.

Defn: A native inhabitant of Tahiti.

TAHR
Tahr, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Thar.

TAI
Tai, a.

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, the chief linguistic stock of
Indo-China, including the peoples of Siamese and Shan speech.

TAI
Tai, n.

Defn: A member of one of the tribes of the Tai stock.

The Tais first appeared in history in Yunnan, and from thence they
migrated into Upper Burma. The earliest swarms appear to have entered
that tract about two thousand years ago, and were small in number.
Census of India, 1901.

TAIL
Tail, n. Etym: [F. taille a cutting. See Entail, Tally.] (Law)

Defn: Limitation; abridgment. Burrill. Estate in tail, a limited,
abridged, or reduced fee; an estate limited to certain heirs, and
from which the other heirs are precluded; -- called also estate tail.
Blackstone.

TAIL
Tail, a. (Law)

Defn: Limited; abridged; reduced; curtailed; as, estate tail.

TAIL
Tail, n. Etym: [AS. t?gel, t?gl; akin to G. zagel, Icel. tagl, Sw.
tagel, Goth. tagl hair. *59.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: The terminal, and usually flexible, posterior appendage of an
animal.

Note: The tail of mammals and reptiles contains a series of movable
vertebr?, and is covered with flesh and hairs or scales like those of
other parts of the body. The tail of existing birds consists of
several more or less consolidated vertebr? which supports a fanlike
group of quills to which the term tail is more particularly applied.
The tail of fishes consists of the tapering hind portion of the body
ending in a caudal fin. The term tail is sometimes applied to the
entire abdomen of a crustacean or insect, and sometimes to the
terminal piece or pygidium alone.

2. Any long, flexible terminal appendage; whatever resembles, in
shape or position, the tail of an animal, as a catkin.
Doretus writes a great praise of the distilled waters of those tails
that hang on willow trees. Harvey.

3. Hence, the back, last, lower, or inferior part of anything, -- as
opposed to the Ant: head, or the superior part.
The Lord will make thee the head, and not the tail. Deut. xxviii. 13.

4. A train or company of attendants; a retinue.
"Ah," said he, "if you saw but the chief with his tail on." Sir W.
Scott.

5. The side of a coin opposite to that which bears the head, effigy,
or date; the reverse; -- rarely used except in the expression "heads
or tails," employed when a coin is thrown up for the purpose of
deciding some point by its fall.

6. (Anat.)

Defn: The distal tendon of a muscle.

7. (Bot.)

Defn: A downy or feathery appendage to certain achens. It is formed
of the permanent elongated style.

8. (Surg.)
(a) A portion of an incision, at its beginning or end, which does not
go through the whole thickness of the skin, and is more painful than
a complete incision; -- called also tailing.
(b) One of the strips at the end of a bandage formed by splitting the
bandage one or more times.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope spliced to the strap of a block, by which it may be
lashed to anything.

10. (Mus.)

Defn: The part of a note which runs perpendicularly upward or
downward from the head; the stem. Moore (Encyc. of Music).

11. pl.

Defn: Same as Tailing, 4.

12. (Arch.)

Defn: The bottom or lower portion of a member or part, as a slate or
tile.

13. pl. (Mining)

Defn: See Tailing, n., 5. Tail beam. (Arch.) Same as Tailpiece.
 -- Tail coverts (Zool.), the feathers which cover the bases of the
tail quills. They are sometimes much longer than the quills, and form
elegant plumes. Those above the quills are called the upper tail
coverts, and those below, the under tail coverts.
 -- Tail end, the latter end; the termination; as, the tail end of a
contest. [Colloq.] -- Tail joist. (Arch.) Same as Tailpiece.
 -- Tail of a comet (Astron.), a luminous train extending from the
nucleus or body, often to a great distance, and usually in a
direction opposite to the sun.
 -- Tail of a gale (Naut.), the latter part of it, when the wind has
greatly abated. Totten.
 -- Tail of a lock (on a canal), the lower end, or entrance into the
lower pond.
 -- Tail of the trenches (Fort.), the post where the besiegers begin
to break ground, and cover themselves from the fire of the place, in
advancing the lines of approach.
 -- Tail spindle, the spindle of the tailstock of a turning lathe; --
called also dead spindle.
 -- To turn tail, to run away; to flee.
Would she turn tail to the heron, and fly quite out another way; but
all was to return in a higher pitch. Sir P. Sidney.

TAIL
Tail, v. t.

1. To follow or hang to, like a tail; to be attached closely to, as
that which can not be evaded. [Obs.]
Nevertheless his bond of two thousand pounds, wherewith he was
tailed, continued uncanceled, and was called on the next Parliament.
Fuller.

2. To pull or draw by the tail. [R.] Hudibras. To tail in or on
(Arch.), to fasten by one of the ends into a wall or some other
support; as, to tail in a timber.

TAIL
Tail, v. i.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: To hold by the end; -- said of a timber when it rests upon a
wall or other support; -- with in or into.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To swing with the stern in a certain direction; -- said of a
vessel at anchor; as, this vessel tails down stream. Tail on. (Naut.)
See Tally on, under Tally.

TAILAGE
Tail"age, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: See Tallage.

TAIL-BAY
Tail"-bay`, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: One of the joists which rest one end on the wall and the other
on a girder; also, the space between a wall and the nearest girder of
a floor. Cf. Case-bay.

2. The part of a canal lock below the lower gates.

TAILBLOCK
Tail"block`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A block with a tail. See Tail, 9.

TAILBOARD
Tail"board`, n.

Defn: The board at the rear end of a cart or wagon, which can be
removed or let down, for convenience in loading or unloading.

TAILED
Tailed, a.

Defn: Having a tail; having (such) a tail or (so many) tails; --
chiefly used in composition; as, bobtailed, longtailed, etc.
Snouted and tailed like a boar. Grew.

TAILING
Tail"ing, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: The part of a projecting stone or brick inserted in a wall.
Gwilt.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: Same as Tail, n., 8 (a).

3. Sexual intercourse. [Obs.] Chaucer.

4. pl.

Defn: The lighter parts of grain separated from the seed threshing
and winnowing; chaff.

5. pl. (Mining)

Defn: The refuse part of stamped ore, thrown behind the tail of the
buddle or washing apparatus. It is dressed over again to secure
whatever metal may exist in it. Called also tails. Pryce.

TAILLE
Taille, n. Etym: [F. See Tally, Tailor.]

1. A tally; an account scored on a piece of wood. [Obs.]
Whether that he paid or took by taille. Chaucer.

2. (O. F. Law)

Defn: Any imposition levied by the king, or any other lord, upon his
subjects.
The taille, as it still subsists in France, may serve as an example
of those ancient tallages. It was a tax upon the profits of the
farmer, which they estimate by the stock that he has upon the farm.
A. Smith.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: The French name for the tenor voice or part; also, for the
tenor viol or viola.

TAILLESS
Tail"less, a.

Defn: Having no tail. H. Spencer.

TAILLIE
Tail"lie, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: Same as Tailzie.

TAILOR
Tai"lor, n. Etym: [OF. tailleor, F. tailleur, fr. OF. taillier, F.
tailler to cut, fr. L. talea a rod, stick, a cutting, layer for
planting. Cf. Detail, Entail, Retail, Tally, n.]

1. One whose occupation is to cut out and make men's garments; also,
one who cuts out and makes ladies' outer garments.
Well said, good woman's tailor . . . I would thou wert a man's
tailor. Shak.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The mattowacca; -- called also tailor herring.
(b) The silversides.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The goldfish. [Prov. Eng.] Salt-water tailor (Zool.), the
bluefish. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett.
 -- Tailor bird (Zool.), any one of numerous species of small Asiatic
and East Indian singing birds belonging to Orthotomus, Prinia, and
allied genera. They are noted for the skill with which they sew
leaves together to form nests. The common Indian species are O.
longicauda, which has the back, scapulars, and upper tail coverts
yellowish green, and the under parts white; and the golden-headed
tailor bird (O. coronatus), which has the top of the head golden
yellow and the back and wings pale olive-green.

TAILOR
Tai"lor, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tailored; p. pr. & vb. n. Tailoring.]

Defn: To practice making men's clothes; to follow the business of a
tailor.
These tailoring artists for our lays Invent cramped rules. M. Green.

TAILORESS
Tai"lor*ess, n.

Defn: A female tailor.

TAILORING
Tai"lor*ing, adv.

Defn: The business or the work of a tailor or a tailoress.

TAILOR-MADE
Tai"lor-made`, a.

Defn: Made by a tailor or according to a tailor's fashion; -- said
specif. of women's garments made with certain closeness of fit,
simplicity of ornament, etc.

TAILPIECE
Tail"piece`, n.

1. A piece at the end; an appendage.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: One of the timbers which tail into a header, in floor framing.
See Illust. of Header.

3. (Print.)

Defn: An ornament placed at the bottom of a short page to fill up the
space, or at the end of a book. Savage.

4. A piece of ebony or other material attached to the lower end of a
violin or similar instrument, to which the strings are fastened.

TAILPIN
Tail"pin", n. (Mach.)

Defn: The center in the spindle of a turning lathe.

TAILRACE
Tail"race`, n.

1. See Race, n., 6.

2. (Mining)

Defn: The channel in which tailings, suspended in water, are
conducted away.

TAILSTOCK
Tail"stock`, n.

Defn: The sliding block or support, in a lathe, which carries the
dead spindle, or adjustable center. The headstock supports the live
spindle.

TAIL-WATER
Tail"-wa`ter, n.

Defn: Water in a tailrace.

TAILZIE
Tail"zie (-zi or -yi), n. Etym: [F. tailler to cut. See Tail a
limitation.] (Scots Law)

Defn: An entailment or deed whereby the legal course of succession is
cut off, and an arbitrary one substituted. [Written also tailzee.]

TAIN
Tain, n. Etym: [OE. tein, teyne; cf. Icel. teinn a twig, akin to AS.
tan, Goth. tains.]

Defn: Thin tin plate; also, tin foil for mirrors. Knight.

TAINT
Taint, n. Etym: [Cf. F. atteinte a blow, bit, stroke. See Attaint.]

1. A thrust with a lance, which fails of its intended effect. [Obs.]
This taint he followed with his sword drawn from a silver sheath.
Chapman.

2. An injury done to a lance in an encounter, without its being
broken; also, a breaking of a lance in an encounter in a dishonorable
or unscientific manner. [Obs.]

TAINT
Taint, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tainted; p. pr. & vb. n. Tainting.]

Defn: To thrust ineffectually with a lance. [Obs.]

TAINT
Taint, v. t.

1. To injure, as a lance, without breaking it; also, to break, as a
lance, but usually in an unknightly or unscientific manner. [Obs.]
Do not fear; I have A staff to taint, and bravely. Massinger.

2. To hit or touch lightly, in tilting. [Obs.]
They tainted each other on the helms and passed by. Ld. Berners.

TAINT
Taint, v. t. Etym: [F. teint, p.p. of teindre to dye, tinge, fr. L.
tingere, tinctum. See Tinge, and cf. Tint.]

1. To imbue or impregnate with something extraneous, especially with
something odious, noxious, or poisonous; hence, to corrupt; to
infect; to poison; as, putrid substance taint the air.

2. Fig.: To stain; to sully; to tarnish.
His unkindness may defeat my life, But never taint my love. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To contaminate; defile; pollute; corrupt; infect; disease;
vitiate; poison.

TAINT
Taint, v. i.

1. To be infected or corrupted; to be touched with something
corrupting.
I can not taint with fear. Shak.

2. To be affected with incipient putrefaction; as, meat soon taints
in warm weather.

TAINT
Taint, n.

1. Tincture; hue; color; tinge. [Obs.]

2. Infection; corruption; deprivation.
He had inherited from his parents a scrofulous taint, which it was
beyond the power of medicine to remove. Macaulay.

3. A blemish on reputation; stain; spot; disgrace.

TAINTLESS
Taint"less, a.

Defn: Free from taint or infection; pure.

TAINTLESSLY
Taint"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In a taintless manner.

TAINTURE
Tain"ture, n. Etym: [F. teinture. See Taint to stain, and cf.
Tincture.]

Defn: Taint; tinge; difilement; stain; spot. [R.] Shak.

TAINTWORM
Taint"worm`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A destructive parasitic worm or insect larva.

TAIPING; TAEPING
Tai"ping", or Tae"ping", a. [Chin. t'aip'ing great peace.] (Chinese
Hist.)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating a dynasty with which one Hung-Siu-
Chuen, a half-religious, half-political enthusiast, attempted to
supplant the Manchu dynasty by the Taiping rebellion, incited by him
in 1850 and suppressed by General Gordon about 1864.

TAIRA
Tai"ra, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Tayra.

TAIRN
Tairn, n.

Defn: See Tarn. Coleridge.

TAIT
Tait, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A small nocturnal and arboreal Australian marsupial (Tarsipes
rostratus) about the size of a mouse. It has a long muzzle, a long
tongue, and very few teeth, and feeds upon honey and insects. Called
also noolbenger.

TAJACU; TAJASSU
Ta*jac"u, Ta*jas"su, n. Etym: [Pg. tajac\'a3, from Braz. tayac\'a3 a
hog or swine.] (Zool.)

Defn: The common, or collared, peccary.

TAJ MAHAL
Taj Ma*hal" (taj ma*hal"). [Corruption of Per. Mumtaz-i-Mahsal, lit.,
the distinguished one of the palace, fr. Ar.]

Defn: A marble mausoleum built at Agra, India, by the Mogul Emperor
Shah Jahan, in memory of his favorite wife. In beauty of design and
rich decorative detail it is one of the best examples of Saracenic
architecture.

TAKE
Take, obs. p. p. of Take.

Defn: Taken. Chaucer.

TAKE
Take, v. t. [imp. Took; p. p. Takend; p. pr. & vb. n. Taking.] Etym:
[Icel. taka; akin to Sw. taga, Dan. tage, Goth. tekan to touch; of
uncertain origin.]

1. In an active sense; To lay hold of; to seize with the hands, or
otherwise; to grasp; to get into one's hold or possession; to
procure; to seize and carry away; to convey. Hence, specifically: --
(a) To obtain possession of by force or artifice; to get the custody
or control of; to reduce into subjection to one's power or will; to
capture; to seize; to make prisoner; as, to take am army, a city, or
a ship; also, to come upon or befall; to fasten on; to attack; to
seize; -- said of a disease, misfortune, or the like.
This man was taken of the Jews. Acts xxiii. 27.
Men in their loose, unguarded hours they take; Not that themselves
are wise, but others weak. Pope.
They that come abroad after these showers are commonly taken with
sickness. Bacon.
There he blasts the tree and takes the cattle And makes milch kine
yield blood. Shak.

(b) To gain or secure the interest or affection of; to captivate; to
engage; to interest; to charm.
Neither let her take thee with her eyelids. Prov. vi. 25.
Cleombroutus was so taken with this prospect, that he had no
patience. Wake.
I know not why, but there was a something in those half-seen
features, -- a charm in the very shadow that hung over their imagined
beauty, -- which took me more than all the outshining loveliness of
her companions. Moore.

(c) To make selection of; to choose; also, to turn to; to have
recourse to; as, to take the road to the right.
Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was
taken. 1 Sam. xiv. 42.
The violence of storming is the course which God is forced to take
for the destroying . . . of sinners. Hammond.

(d) To employ; to use; to occupy; hence, to demand; to require; as,
it takes so much cloth to make a coat.
This man always takes time . . . before he passes his judgments. I.
Watts.

(e) To form a likeness of; to copy; to delineate; to picture; as, to
take picture of a person.
Beauty alone could beauty take so right. Dryden.

(f) To draw; to deduce; to derive. [R.]
The firm belief of a future judgment is the most forcible motive to a
good life, because taken from this consideration of the most lasting
happiness and misery. Tillotson.

(g) To assume; to adopt; to acquire, as shape; to permit to one's
self; to indulge or engage in; to yield to; to have or feel; to enjoy
or experience, as rest, revenge, delight, shame; to form and adopt,
as a resolution; -- used in general senses, limited by a following
complement, in many idiomatic phrases; as, to take a resolution; I
take the liberty to say.
(h) To lead; to conduct; as, to take a child to church.
(i) To carry; to convey; to deliver to another; to hand over; as, he
took the book to the bindery.
He took me certain gold, I wot it well. Chaucer.

(k) To remove; to withdraw; to deduct; -- with from; as, to take the
breath from one; to take two from four.

2. In a somewhat passive sense, to receive; to bear; to endure; to
acknowledge; to accept. Specifically: --
(a) To accept, as something offered; to receive; not to refuse or
reject; to admit.
Ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of a murderer. Num. xxxv.
31.
Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore. 1 Tim. v.
10.

(b) To receive as something to be eaten or dronk; to partake of; to
swallow; as, to take food or wine.
(c) Not to refuse or balk at; to undertake readily; to clear; as, to
take a hedge or fence.
(d) To bear without ill humor or resentment; to submit to; to
tolerate; to endure; as, to take a joke; he will take an affront from
no man.
(e) To admit, as, something presented to the mind; not to dispute; to
allow; to accept; to receive in thought; to entertain in opinion; to
understand; to interpret; to regard or look upon; to consider; to
suppose; as, to take a thing for granted; this I take to be man's
motive; to take men for spies.
You take me right. Bacon.
Charity, taken in its largest extent, is nothing else but the science
love of God and our neighbor. Wake.
[He] took that for virtue and affection which was nothing but vice in
a disguise. South.
You'd doubt his sex, and take him for a girl. Tate.

(f) To accept the word or offer of; to receive and accept; to bear;
to submit to; to enter into agreement with; -- used in general
senses; as, to take a form or shape.
I take thee at thy word. Rowe.
Yet thy moist clay is pliant to command; . . . Not take the mold.
Dryden.
To be taken aback, To take advantage of, To take air, etc. See under
Aback, Advantage, etc.
 -- To take aim, to direct the eye or weapon; to aim.
 -- To take along, to carry, lead, or convey.
 -- To take arms, to commence war or hostilities.
 -- To take away, to carry off; to remove; to cause deprivation of;
to do away with; as, a bill for taking away the votes of bishops. "By
your own law, I take your life away." Dryden.
 -- To take breath, to stop, as from labor, in order to breathe or
rest; to recruit or refresh one's self.
 -- To take care, to exercise care or vigilance; to be solicitous.
"Doth God take care for oxen" 1 Cor. ix. 9.
 -- To take care of, to have the charge or care of; to care for; to
superintend or oversee.
 -- To take down. (a) To reduce; to bring down, as from a high, or
higher, place; as, to take down a book; hence, to bring lower; to
depress; to abase or humble; as, to take down pride, or the proud. "I
never attempted to be impudent yet, that I was not taken down."
Goldsmith. (b) To swallow; as, to take down a potion. (c) To pull
down; to pull to pieces; as, to take down a house or a scaffold. (d)
To record; to write down; as, to take down a man's words at the time
he utters them.
 -- To take effect, To take fire. See under Effect, and Fire.
 -- To take ground to the right or to the left (Mil.), to extend the
line to the right or left; to move, as troops, to the right or left.
 -- To take heart, to gain confidence or courage; to be encouraged.
 -- To take heed, to be careful or cautious. "Take heed what doom
against yourself you give." Dryden.
 -- To take heed to, to attend with care, as, take heed to thy ways.
 -- To take hold of, to seize; to fix on.
 -- To take horse, to mount and ride a horse.
 -- To take in. (a) To inclose; to fence. (b) To encompass or
embrace; to comprise; to comprehend. (c) To draw into a smaller
compass; to contract; to brail or furl; as, to take in sail. (d) To
cheat; to circumvent; to gull; to deceive. [Colloq.] (e) To admit; to
receive; as, a leaky vessel will take in water. (f) To win by
conquest. [Obs.]
For now Troy's broad-wayed town He shall take in. Chapman.
(g) To receive into the mind or understanding. "Some bright genius
can take in a long train of propositions." I. Watts. (h) To receive
regularly, as a periodical work or newspaper; to take. [Eng.] -- To
take in hand. See under Hand.
 -- To take in vain, to employ or utter as in an oath. "Thou shalt
not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain." Ex. xx. 7.
 -- To take issue. See under Issue.
 -- To take leave. See Leave, n., 2.
 -- To take a newspaper, magazine, or the like, to receive it
regularly, as on paying the price of subscription.
 -- To take notice, to observe, or to observe with particular
attention.
 -- To take notice of. See under Notice.
 -- To take oath, to swear with solemnity, or in a judicial manner.
 -- To take off. (a) To remove, as from the surface or outside; to
remove from the top of anything; as, to take off a load; to take off
one's hat. (b) To cut off; as, to take off the head, or a limb. (c)
To destroy; as, to take off life. (d) To remove; to invalidate; as,
to take off the force of an argument. (e) To withdraw; to call or
draw away. Locke. (f) To swallow; as, to take off a glass of wine.
(g) To purchase; to take in trade. "The Spaniards having no
commodities that we will take off." Locke. (h) To copy; to reproduce.
"Take off all their models in wood." Addison. (i) To imitate; to
mimic; to personate. (k) To find place for; to dispose of; as, more
scholars than preferments can take off. [R.] Bacon.
 -- To take on, to assume; to take upon one's self; as, to take on a
character or responsibility.
 -- To take one's own course, to act one's pleasure; to pursue the
measures of one's own choice.
 -- To take order for. See under Order.
 -- To take order with, to check; to hinder; to repress. [Obs.]
Bacon.
 -- To take orders. (a) To receive directions or commands. (b)
(Eccl.) To enter some grade of the ministry. See Order, n., 10.
 -- To take out. (a) To remove from within a place; to separate; to
deduct. (b) To draw out; to remove; to clear or cleanse from; as, to
take out a stain or spot from cloth. (c) To produce for one's self;
as, to take out a patent. (d) To put an end to; as, to take the
conceit out of a man. (e) To escort; as, to take out to dinner.
 -- To take over, to undertake; to take the management of. [Eng.]
Cross (Life of G. Eliot).
 -- To take part, to share; as, they take part in our rejoicing.
 -- To take part with, to unite with; to join with.
 -- To take place, root, sides, stock, etc. See under Place, Root,
Side, etc.
 -- To take the air. (a) (Falconry) To seek to escape by trying to
rise higher than the falcon; -- said of a bird. (b) See under Air.
 -- To take the field. (Mil.) See under Field.
 -- To take thought, to be concerned or anxious; to be solicitous.
Matt. vi. 25, 27.
 -- To take to heart. See under Heart.
 -- To take to task, to reprove; to censure.
 -- to take to the air, to take off. To take up. (a) To lift; to
raise. Hood. (b) To buy or borrow; as, to take up goods to a large
amount; to take up money at the bank. (c) To begin; as, to take up a
lamentation. Ezek. xix. 1. (d) To gather together; to bind up; to
fasten or to replace; as, to take up raveled stitches; specifically
(Surg.), to fasten with a ligature. (e) To engross; to employ; to
occupy or fill; as, to take up the time; to take up a great deal of
room. (f) To take permanently. "Arnobius asserts that men of the
finest parts . . . took up their rest in the Christian religion."
Addison. (g) To seize; to catch; to arrest; as, to take up a thief;
to take up vagabonds. (h) To admit; to believe; to receive. [Obs.]
The ancients took up experiments upon credit. Bacon.
(i) To answer by reproof; to reprimand; to berate.
One of his relations took him up roundly. L'Estrange.
(k) To begin where another left off; to keep up in continuous
succession.
Soon as the evening shades prevail, The moon takes up the wondrous
tale. Addison.
(l) To assume; to adopt as one's own; to carry on or manage; as, to
take up the quarrels of our neighbors; to take up current opinions.
"They take up our old trade of conquering." Dryden. (m) To comprise;
to include. "The noble poem of Palemon and Arcite . . . takes up
seven years." Dryden. (n) To receive, accept, or adopt for the
purpose of assisting; to espouse the cause of; to favor. Ps. xxvii.
10. (o) To collect; to exact, as a tax; to levy; as, to take up a
contribution. "Take up commodities upon our bills." Shak. (p) To pay
and receive; as, to take up a note at the bank. (q) (Mach.) To
remove, as by an adjustment of parts; as, to take up lost motion, as
in a bearing; also, to make tight, as by winding, or drawing; as, to
take up slack thread in sewing. (r) To make up; to compose; to
settle; as, to take up a quarrel. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- To take up arms. Same as To take arms, above.
 -- To take upon one's self. (a) To assume; to undertake; as, he
takes upon himself to assert that the fact is capable of proof. (b)
To appropriate to one's self; to allow to be imputed to, or inflicted
upon, one's self; as, to take upon one's self a punishment.
 -- To take up the gauntlet. See under Gauntlet.

TAKE
Take, v. i.

1. To take hold; to fix upon anything; to have the natural or
intended effect; to accomplish a purpose; as, he was inoculated, but
the virus did not take. Shak.
When flame taketh and openeth, it giveth a noise. Bacon.
In impressions from mind to mind, the impression taketh, but is
overcome . . . before it work any manifest effect. Bacon.

2. To please; to gain reception; to succeed.
Each wit may praise it for his own dear sake, And hint he writ it, if
the thing should take. Addison.

3. To move or direct the course; to resort; to betake one's self; to
proceed; to go; -- usually with to; as, the fox, being hard pressed,
took to the hedge.

4. To admit of being pictured, as in a photograph; as, his face does
not take well. To take after. (a) To learn to follow; to copy; to
imitate; as, he takes after a good pattern. (b) To resemble; as, the
son takes after his father.
 -- To take in with, to resort to. [Obs.] Bacon.
 -- To take on, to be violently affected; to express grief or pain in
a violent manner.
 -- To take to. (a) To apply one's self to; to be fond of; to become
attached to; as, to take to evil practices. "If he does but take to
you, . . . you will contract a great friendship with him." Walpole.
(b) To resort to; to betake one's self to. "Men of learning, who take
to business, discharge it generally with greater honesty than men of
the world." Addison.
 -- To take up. (a) To stop. [Obs.] "Sinners at last take up and
settle in a contempt of religion." Tillotson. (b) To reform. [Obs.]
Locke.
 -- To take up with. (a) To be contended to receive; to receive
without opposition; to put up with; as, to take up with plain fare.
"In affairs which may have an extensive influence on our future
happiness, we should not take up with probabilities." I. Watts. (b)
To lodge with; to dwell with. [Obs.] L'Estrange.
 -- To take with, to please. Bacon.

TAKE
Take, n.

1. That which is taken; especially, the quantity of fish captured at
one haul or catch.

2. (Print.)

Defn: The quantity or copy given to a compositor at one time.

TAKE-IN
Take"-in`, n.

Defn: Imposition; fraud. [Colloq.]

TAKEN
Tak"en,

Defn: p. p. of Take.

TAKE-OFF
Take"-off`, n.

Defn: An imitation, especially in the way of caricature.

TAKER
Tak"er, n.

Defn: One who takes or receives; one who catches or apprehended.

TAKE-UP
Take"-up`, n. (Mach.)

Defn: That which takes up or tightens; specifically, a device in a
sewing machine for drawing up the slack thread as the needle rises,
in completing a stitch.

TAKING
Tak"ing, a.

1. Apt to take; alluring; attracting.
Subtile in making his temptations most taking. Fuller.

2. Infectious; contageous. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.
 -- Tak"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Tak"ing*ness, n.

TAKING
Tak"ing, n.

1. The act of gaining possession; a seizing; seizure; apprehension.

2. Agitation; excitement; distress of mind. [Colloq.]
What a taking was he in, when your husband asked who was in the
basket! Shak.

3. Malign influence; infection. [Obs.] Shak.

TAKING-OFF
Tak"ing-off`, n.

Defn: Removal; murder. See To take off (c), under Take, v. t.
The deep damnation of his taking-off. Shak.

TALAPOIN
Tal"a*poin, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A small African monkey (Cercopithecus, or Miopithecus,
talapoin) -- called also melarhine.

TALARIA
Ta*la"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., from talaris pertaining to the ankles,
fr. talus ankle.] (Class. Myth.)

Defn: Small wings or winged shoes represented as fastened to the
ankles, -- chiefly used as an attribute of Mercury.

TALBOT
Tal"bot, n.

Defn: A sort of dog, noted for quick scent and eager pursuit of game.
[Obs.] Wase (1654).

Note: The figure of a dog is borne in the arms of the Talbot family,
whence, perhaps, the name.

TALBOTYPE
Tal"bo*type, n. (Photog.)

Defn: Same as Calotype.

TALC
Talc, n. Etym: [F. talc; cf. Sp. & It. talco, LL. talcus; all fr. Ar.
talq.] (Min.)

Defn: A soft mineral of a soapy feel and a greenish, whitish, or
grayish color, usually occurring in foliated masses. It is hydrous
silicate of magnesia. Steatite, or soapstone, is a compact granular
variety. Indurated talc, an impure, slaty talc, with a nearly compact
texture, and greater hardness than common talc; -- called also talc
slate.

TALCOSE; TALCOUS
Tal*cose", Talc"ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talqueux.] (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to talc; composed of, or resembling, talc.

TALCUM
Tal"cum, n. [NL.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Talc.

TALE
Tale, n.

Defn: See Tael.

TALE
Tale, n. Etym: [AS. talu number, speech, narrative; akin to D. taal
speech, language, G. zahl number, OHG. zala, Icel. tal, tala, number,
speech, Sw. tal, Dan. tal number, tale speech, Goth. talzjan to
instruct. Cf. Tell, v. t., Toll a tax, also Talk, v. i.]

1. That which is told; an oral relation or recital; any rehearsal of
what has occured; narrative; discourse; statement; history; story.
"The tale of Troy divine." Milton. "In such manner rime is Dante's
tale." Chaucer.
We spend our years as a tale that is told. Ps. xc. 9.

2. A number told or counted off; a reckoning by count; an
enumeration; a count, in distinction from measure or weight; a number
reckoned or stated.
The ignorant, . . . who measure by tale, and not by weight. Hooker.
And every shepherd tells his tale, Under the hawthornn in the dale.
Milton.
In packing, they keep a just tale of the number. Carew.

3. (Law)

Defn: A count or declaration. [Obs.] To tell tale of, to make account
of. [Obs.]
Therefore little tale hath he told Of any dream, so holy was his
heart. Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Anecdote; story; fable; incident; memoir; relation; account;
legend; narrative.

TALE
Tale, v. i.

Defn: To tell stories. [Obs.] Chaucer. Gower.

TALEBEARER
Tale"bear`er, n.

Defn: One who officiously tells tales; one who impertinently or
maliciously communicates intelligence, scandal, etc., and makes
mischief.
Spies and talebearers, encouraged by her father, did their best to
inflame her resentment. Macaulay.

TALEBEARING
Tale"bear`ing, a.

Defn: Telling tales officiously.

TALEBEARING
Tale"bear`ing, n.

Defn: The act of informing officiously; communication of sectrts,
scandal, etc., maliciously.

TALED
Ta"led, n. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: A kind of quadrangular piece of cloth put on by the Jews when
repeating prayers in the synagogues. Crabb.

TALEFUL
Tale"ful, a.

Defn: Full of stories. [R.] Thomson.

TALEGALLA
Tal`e*gal"la, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of Australian birds which includes the brush turkey.
See Brush turkey.

TALENT
Tal"ent, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. talentum a talent (in sense 1), Gr.
tolerare, tollere, to lift up, sustain, endure. See Thole, v. t.,
Tolerate.]

1. Among the ancient Greeks, a weight and a denomination of money
equal to 60 min? or 6,000 drachm?. The Attic talent, as a weight, was
about 57 lbs. avoirdupois; as a denomination of silver money, its
value was ?243 15s. sterling, or about $1,180.
Rowing vessel whose burden does not exceed five hundred talents.
Jowett (Thucid.).

2. Among the Hebrews, a weight and denomination of money. For silver
it was equivalent to 3,000 shekels, and in weight was equal to about
93

3. Inclination; will; disposition; desire. [Obs.]
They rather counseled you to your talent than to your profit.
Chaucer.

4. Intellectual ability, natural or acquired; mental endowment or
capacity; skill in accomplishing; a special gift, particularly in
business, art, or the like; faculty; a use of the word probably
originating in the Scripture parable of the talents (Matt. xxv. 14-
30).
He is chiefly to be considered in his three different talents, as a
critic, a satirist, and a writer of odes. Dryden.
His talents, his accomplishments, his graceful manners, made him
generally popular. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Ability; faculty; gift; endowment. See Genius.

TALENTED
Tal"ent*ed, a.

Defn: Furnished with talents; possessing skill or talent; mentally
gifted. Abp. Abbot (1663).

Note: This word has been strongly objected to by Coleridge and some
other critics, but, as it would seem, upon not very good grounds, as
the use of talent or talents to signify mental ability, although at
first merely metaphorical, is now fully established, and talented, as
a formative, is just as analogical and legitimate as gifted, bigoted,
moneyed, landed, lilied, honeyed, and numerous other adjectives
having a participal form, but derived directly from nouns and not
from verbs.

TALES
Ta"les, n. Etym: [L., pl. of talis such (persons).] (Law) (a) pl.

Defn: Persons added to a jury, commonly from those in or about the
courthouse, to make up any deficiency in the number of jurors
regularly summoned, being like, or such as, the latter. Blount.
Blackstone. (b) syntactically sing.

Defn: The writ by which such persons are summoned. Tales book, a book
containing the names of such as are admitted of the tales. Blount.
Craig.
 -- Tales de circumstantibus Etym: [L.], such, or the like, from
those standing about.

TALESMAN
Tales"man, n.; pl. Talesmen (. (Law)

Defn: A person called to make up a deficiency in the number of jurors
when a tales is awarded. Wharton.

TALETELLER
Tale"tell`er, n.

Defn: One who tells tales or stories, especially in a mischievous or
officious manner; a talebearer; a telltale; a tattler.

TALEWISE
Tale"wise`, adv.

Defn: In a way of a tale or story.

TALIACOTIAN
Tal"ia*co`tian, a.

Defn: See Tagliacotian.

TALIATION
Tal`i*a"tion, n.

Defn: Retaliation. [Obs.]
Just heav'n this taliation did decree. Beaumont.

TALION
Ta"li*on, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. talio, perh. fr. talis such. Cf.
Retaliation.]

Defn: Retaliation. [R.] Holinshed.

TALIPES
Tal"i*pes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. talus an ankle + pes, pedis, a foot;
cf. L. talipedare to be weak in the feet, properly, to walk on the
ankles.] (Surg.)

Defn: The deformity called clubfoot. See Clubfoot.

Note: Several varieties are distinguished; as, Talipes varus, in
which the foot is drawn up and bent inward; T. valgus, in which the
foot is bent outward; T. equinus, in which the sole faces backward
and the patient walks upon the balls of the toes; and T. calcaneus
(called also talus), in which the sole faces forward and the patient
walks upon the heel.

TALIPOT
Tal"i*pot, n. Etym: [Hind. talpat the leaf of the tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A beautiful tropical palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), a
native of Ceylon and the Malabar coast. It has a trunk sixty or
seventy feet high, bearing a crown of gigantic fan-shaped leaves
which are used as umbrellas and as fans in ceremonial processions,
and, when cut into strips, as a substitute for writing paper.

TALISMAN
Tal"is*man, n.; pl. Talismans. Etym: [Sp., from Ar. tilism, tilsam, a
magical image, pl. tilsaman, fr. Gr.

1. A magical figure cut or engraved under certain superstitious
observances of the configuration of the heavens, to which wonderful
effects are ascribed; the seal, figure, character, or image, of a
heavenly sign, constellation, or planet, engraved on a sympathetic
stone, or on a metal corresponding to the star, in order to receive
its influence.

2. Hence, something that produces extraordinary effects, esp. in
averting or repelling evil; an amulet; a charm; as, a talisman to
avert diseases. Swift.

TALISMANIC; TALISMANICAL
Tal`is*man"ic, Tal`is*man"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talismanique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a talisman; having the properties of a
talisman, or preservative against evils by occult influence; magical.

TALK
Talk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Talked; p. pr. & vb. n. Talking.] Etym:
[Cf. LG. talk talk, gabble, Prov. G. talken to speak indistinctly; or
OD. tolken to interpret, MHG. tolkan to interpret, to tell, to speak
indistinctly, Dan. tolke to interpret, Sw. tolka, Icel. t to
interpret, t an interpreter, Lith. tulkas an interpreter, tulkanti,
tulkoti, to interpret, Russ. tolkovate to interpret, to talk about;
or perhaps fr. OE. talien to speak (see Tale, v. i. & n.).]

1. To utter words; esp., to converse familiarly; to speak, as in
familiar discourse, when two or more persons interchange thoughts.
I will buy with you, sell with you, talk with you, walk with you, and
so following, but I will not eat with you. Shak.

2. To confer; to reason; to consult.
Let me talk with thee of thy judgments. Jer. xii. 1.

3. To prate; to speak impertinently. [Colloq.] To talk of, to relate;
to tell; to give an account of; as, authors talk of the wonderful
remains of Palmyra. "The natural histories of Switzerland talk much
of the fall of these rocks, and the great damage done." Addison.
 -- To talk to, to advise or exhort, or to reprove gently; as, I will
talk to my son respecting his conduct. [Colloq.]

TALK
Talk, v. t.

1. To speak freely; to use for conversing or communicating; as, to
talk French.

2. To deliver in talking; to speak; to utter; to make a subject of
conversation; as, to talk nonsense; to talk politics.

3. To consume or spend in talking; -- often followed by away; as, to
talk away an evening.

4. To cause to be or become by talking. "They would talk themselves
mad." Shak. To talk over. (a) To talk about; to have conference
respecting; to deliberate upon; to discuss; as, to talk over a matter
or plan. (b) To change the mind or opinion of by talking; to
convince; as, to talk over an opponent.

TALK
Talk, n.

1. The act of talking; especially, familiar converse; mutual
discourse; that which is uttered, especially in familiar
conversation, or the mutual converse of two or more.
In various talk the instructive hours they passed. Pope.
Their talk, when it was not made up of nautical phrases, was too
commonly made up of oaths and curses. Macaulay.

2. Report; rumor; as, to hear talk of war.
I hear a talk up and down of raising our money. Locke.

3. Subject of discourse; as, his achievment is the talk of the town.

Syn.
 -- Conversation; colloquy; discourse; chat; dialogue; conference;
communication. See Conversation.

TALKATIVE
Talk"a*tive, a.

Defn: Given to much talking.

Syn.
 -- Garrulous; loquacious. See Garrulous.
 -- Talk"a*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Talk"a*tive*ness, n.

TALKER
Talk"er, n.

1. One who talks; especially, one who is noted for his power of
conversing readily or agreeably; a conversationist.
There probably were never four talkers more admirable in four
different ways than Johnson, Burke, Beauclerk, and Garrick. Macaulay.

2. A loquacious person, male or female; a prattler; a babbler; also,
a boaster; a braggart; -- used in contempt or reproach. Jer. Taylor.

TALKING
Talk"ing, a.

1. That talks; able to utter words; as, a talking parrot.

2. Given to talk; loquacious.
The hawthorn bush, with seats beneath the shade, For talking age and
whispering lovers made. Goldsmith.

TALL
Tall, a. [Compar. Taller; superl. Tallest.] Etym: [OE. tal seemly,
elegant, docile; of uncertain origin; cf. AS. un-tala, un-tale, bad,
Goth. untals indocile, disobedient, uninstructed, or W. & Corn. tal
high, Ir. talla meet, fit, proper, just.]

1. High in stature; having a considerable, or an unusual, extension
upward; long and comparatively slender; having the diameter or
lateral extent small in proportion to the height; as, a tall person,
tree, or mast.
Two of far nobler shape, erect and tall. Milton.

2. Brave; bold; courageous. [Obs.]
As tall a trencherman As e'er demolished a pye fortification.
Massinger.
His companions, being almost in despair of victory, were suddenly
recomforted by Sir William Stanley, which came to succors with three
thousand tall men. Grafton.

3. Fine; splendid; excellent; also, extravagant; excessive. [Obs. or
Slang] B. Jonson.

Syn.
 -- High; lofty.
 -- Tall, High, Lofty. High is the generic term, and is applied to
anything which is elevated or raised above another thing. Tall
specifically describes that which has a small diameter in proportion
to its height; hence, we speak of a tall man, a tall steeple, a tall
mast, etc., but not of a tall hill. Lofty has a special reference to
the expanse above us, and denotes an imposing height; as, a lofty
mountain; a lofty room. Tall is now properly applied only to physical
objects; high and lofty have a moral acceptation; as, high thought,
purpose, etc.; lofty aspirations; a lofty genius. Lofty is the
stronger word, and is usually coupled with the grand or admirable.

TALLAGE; TALLIAGE
Tal"lage, Tal"li*age, n. Etym: [F. taillage. See Taille, and cf.
Tailage.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A certain rate or tax paid by barons, knights, and inferior
tenants, toward the public expenses. [Written also tailage,
taillage.]

Note: When paid out of knight's fees, it was called scutage; when by
cities and burghs, tallage; when upon lands not held by military
tenure, hidage. Blackstone.

TALLAGE
Tal"lage, v. t.

Defn: To lay an impost upon; to cause to pay tallage.

TALLBOY
Tall"boy`, n.

1. A kind of long-stemmed wineglass or cup.

2.  A piece of household furniture common in the eighteenth century,
usually in two separate parts, with larger drawers above and smaller
ones below and raised on legs fifteen inches or more in height; --
called also highboy.

3.  A long sheet-metal pipe for a chimney top.

TALLIER
Tal"li*er, n.

Defn: One who keeps tally.

TALLIS
Tal"lis, n.

Defn: Same as Tallith.

TALLITH
Tal"lith, n. [NHeb. tallith.] (Jewish Costume)
 (a) An undergarment worn by orthodox Jews, covering the chest and
the upper part of the back. It has an opening for the head, and has
tassels, called zizith, on its four corners.
 (b) A tasseled shawl or scarf worn over the head or thrown round the
shoulders while at prayer.

TALLNESS
Tall"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tall; height of stature.

TALLOW
Tal"low, n. Etym: [OE. taluh, talugh; akin to OD. talgh, D. talk, G.,
Dan. and Sw. talg, Icel. tolgr, tolg, tolk; and perhaps to Goth.
tulgus firm.]

1. The suet or fat of animals of the sheep and ox kinds, separated
from membranous and fibrous matter by melting.

Note: The solid consistency of tallow is due to the large amount of
stearin it contains. See Fat.

2. The fat of some other animals, or the fat obtained from certain
plants, or from other sources, resembling the fat of animals of the
sheep and ox kinds. Tallow candle, a candle made of tallow.
 -- Tallow catch, a keech. See Keech. [Obs.] -- Tallow chandler, one
whose occupation is to make, or to sell, tallow candles.
 -- Tallow chandlery, the trade of a tallow chandler; also, the place
where his business is carried on.
 -- Tallow tree (Bot.), a tree (Stillingia sebifera) growing in
China, the seeds of which are covered with a substance which
resembles tallow and is applied to the same purposes.

TALLOW
Tal"low, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tallowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tallowing.]

1. To grease or smear with tallow.

2. To cause to have a large quantity of tallow; to fatten; as, tallow
sheep.

TALLOWER
Tal"low*er, n.

Defn: An animal which produces tallow.

TALLOW-FACE
Tal"low-face`, n.

Defn: One who has a sickly, pale complexion. Shak.

TALLOW-FACED
Tal"low-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a sickly complexion; pale. Burton.

TALLOWING
Tal"low*ing, n.

Defn: The act, or art, of causing animals to produce tallow; also,
the property in animals of producing tallow.

TALLOWISH
Tal"low*ish, a.

Defn: Having the qualities of tallow.

TALLOWY
Tal"low*y, a.

Defn: Of the nature of tallow; resembling tallow; greasy.

TALLWOOD
Tall"wood`, n. Etym: [Cf. Tally.]

Defn: Firewood cut into billets of a certain length. [Obs.] [Eng.]

TALLY
Tal"ly, n.; pl. Tallies. Etym: [OE. taile, taille, F. taille a
cutting, cut tally, fr. tailler to cut, but influenced probably by
taille, p.p. of tailler. See Tailor, and cf. Tail a limitation,
Taille, Tallage.]

1. Originally, a piece of wood on which notches or scores were cut,
as the marks of number; later, one of two books, sheets of paper,
etc., on which corresponding accounts were kept.

Note: In purshasing and selling, it was once customary for traders to
have two sticks, or one stick cleft into two parts, and to mark with
a score or notch, on each, the number or quantity of goods delivered,
-- the seller keeping one stick, and the purchaser the other. Before
the use of writing, this, or something like it, was the only method
of keeping accounts; and tallies were received as evidence in courts
of justice. In the English exchequer were tallies of loans, one part
being kept in the exchequer, the other being given to the creditor in
lieu of an obligation for money lent to government.

2. Hence, any account or score kept by notches or marks, whether on
wood or paper, or in a book; especially, one kept in duplicate.

3. One thing made to suit another; a match; a mate.
They were framed the tallies for each other. Dryden.

4. A notch, mark, or score made on or in a tally; as, to make or earn
a tally in a game.

5. A tally shop. See Tally shop, below. Tally shop, a shop at which
goods or articles are sold to customers on account, the account being
kept in corresponding books, one called the tally, kept by the buyer,
the other the counter tally, kept by the seller, and the payments
being made weekly or otherwise by agreement. The trade thus regulated
is called tally trade. Eng. Encyc.
 -- To strike tallies, to act in correspondence, or alike. [Obs.]
Fuller.

TALLY
Tal"ly, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tallied; p. pr. & vb. n. Tallying.] Etym:
[Cf. F. tialler to cut. See Tally, n.]

1. To score with correspondent notches; hence, to make to correspond;
to cause to fit or suit.
They are not so well tallied to the present juncture. Pope.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To check off, as parcels of freight going inboard or outboard.
W. C. Russell. Tally on (Naut.), to dovetail together.

TALLY
Tal"ly, v. i.

1. To be fitted; to suit; to correspond; to match.
I found pieces of tiles that exactly tallied with the channel.
Addison.
Your idea . . . tallies exactly with mine. Walpole.

2. To make a tally; to score; as, to tally in a game. Tally on
(Naut.), to man a rope for hauling, the men standing in a line or
tail.

TALLY
Tal"ly, adv. Etym: [See Tall, a.]

Defn: Stoutly; with spirit. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

TALLYHO
Tal"ly*ho`, interj. & n.

1. The huntsman's cry to incite or urge on his hounds.

2. A tallyho coach. Tallyho coach, a pleasure coach. See under Coach.

TALLYMAN
Tal"ly*man, n.; pl. Tallymen (.

1. One who keeps the tally, or marks the sticks.

2. One who keeps a tally shop, or conducts his business as tally
trade.

TALMA
Tal"ma, n.; pl. Talmas. Etym: [Prob. so called from Talma, a French
actor.]
(a) A kind of large cape, or short, full cloak, forming part of the
dress of ladies.
(b) A similar garment worn formerly by gentlemen.

TALMUD
Tal"mud, n. Etym: [Chald. talmud instruction, doctrine, fr. lamad to
learn, limmad to teach.]

Defn: The body of the Jewish civil and canonical law not comprised in
the Pentateuch.

Note: The Talmud consists of two parts, the Mishna, or text, and the
Gemara, or commentary. Sometimes, however, the name Talmud is
restricted, especially by Jewish writers, to the Gemara. There are
two Talmuds, the Palestinian, commonly, but incorrectly, called the
Talmud of Jerusalem, and the Babylonian Talmud. They contain the same
Mishna, but different Gemaras. The Babylonian Talmud is about three
times as large as the other, and is more highly esteemed by the Jews.

TALMUDIC; TALMUDICAL
Tal*mud"ic, Tal*mud"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. talmudique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Talmud; contained in the Talmud; as,
Talmudic Greek; Talmudical phrases. Lightfoot.

TALMUDISM
Tal"mud*ism, n. , n.

Defn: The teachings of the Talmud, or adherence to them.

TALMUDIST
Tal"mud*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. talmudiste.]

Defn: One versed in the Talmud; one who adheres to the teachings of
the Talmud.

TALMUDISTIC
Tal`mud*is"tic, a.

Defn: Resembling the Talmud; Talmudic.

TALON
Tal"on, n. Etym: [F., heel, spur, LL. talo, fr. L. talus the ankle,
heel.]

1. The claw of a predaceous bird or animal, especially the claw of a
bird of prey. Bacon.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: One of certain small prominences on the hind part of the face
of an elephant's tooth.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: A kind of molding, concave at the bottom and convex at the top;
-- usually called an ogee.

Note: When the concave part is at the top, it is called an inverted
talon.

4. The shoulder of the bolt of a lock on which the key acts to shoot
the bolt. Knight.

TALOOK; TALUK
Ta*look", Ta*luk", n. Etym: [Ar. ta'lluq.]

Defn: A large estate; esp., one constituting a revenue district or
dependency the native proprietor of which is responsible for the
collection and payment of the public revenue due from it. [India]

TALOOKDAR; TALUKDAR
Ta*look"dar, Ta*luk"dar, n. Etym: [Hind., fr. Per. ta'lluqdar.]

Defn: A proprietor of a talook. [India]

TALPA
Tal"pa, n. Etym: [L., mole.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of small insectivores including the common European
mole.

TALUS
Ta"lus, n.; pl. Tali. Etym: [L., the ankle, the ankle bone.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The astragalus.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A variety of clubfoot (Talipes calcaneus). See the Note under
Talipes.

TALUS
Ta"lus, n. Etym: [F.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: A slope; the inclination of the face of a work.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: A sloping heap of fragments of rock lying at the foot of a
precipice.

TAMABILITY
Tam`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tamable; tamableness.

TAMABLE
Tam"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being tamed, subdued, or reclaimed from wildness or
savage ferociousness.
 -- Tam"a*ble*ness, n.

TAMALE
Ta*ma"le, n. [Written also tamal, tomale.] [Amer. Sp. tamal, of Mex.
origin.]

Defn: A Mexican dish made of crushed maize mixed with minced meat,
seasoned with red pepper, dipped in oil, and steamed.

TAMANDU
Ta*man"du, n. Etym: [Sp., from the native name: cf. F. tamandua.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A small ant-eater (Tamandua tetradactyla) native of the
tropical parts of South America.

Note: It has five toes on the fore feet, an elongated snout, small
ears, and short woolly hair. Its tail is stout and hairy at the base,
tapering, and covered with minute scales, and is somewhat prehensile
at the end. Called also tamandua, little ant-bear, fourmilier, and
cagouare. The collared, or striped, tamandu (Tamandua bivittata) is
considered a distinct species by some writers, but by others is
regarded as only a variety.

TAMANOIR
Ta`ma*noir", n. (Zool.)

Defn: The ant-bear.

TAMARACK
Tam"a*rack, n. (Bot.)
(a) The American larch; also, the larch of Oregon and British
Columbia (Larix occidentalis). See Hackmatack, and Larch.
(b) The black pine (Pinus Murrayana) of Alaska, California, etc. It
is a small tree with fine-grained wood.

TAMARIC
Tam"a*ric, n. Etym: [L. tamarice. See Tamarisk.]

Defn: A shrub or tree supposed to be the tamarisk, or perhaps some
kind of heath. [Obs.]
He shall be like tamaric in the desert, and he shall not see when
good shall come. Jer. xvii. 6 (Douay version).

TAMARIN
Tam"a*rin, n. Etym: [From the native name in Cayenne.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small squirrel-like South
American monkeys of the genus Midas, especially M. ursulus.

TAMARIND
Tam"a*rind, n. Etym: [It. tamarindo, or Sp. tamarindo, or Pg.
tamarindo, tamarinho, from Ar. tamarhindi, literally, Indian date;
tamar a dried date + Hind India: cf. F. tamarin. Cf. Hindoo.] (Bot.)

1. A leguminous tree (Tamarindus Indica) cultivated both the Indies,
and the other tropical countries, for the sake of its shade, and for
its fruit. The trunk of the tree is lofty and large, with wide-
spreading branches; the flowers are in racemes at the ends of the
branches. The leaves are small and finely pinnated.

2. One of the preserved seed pods of the tamarind, which contain an
acid pulp, and are used medicinally and for preparing a pleasant
drink. Tamarind fish, a preparation of a variety of East Indian fish
with the acid pulp of the tamarind fruit.
 -- Velvet tamarind. (a) A West African leguminous tree (Codarium
acutifolium). (b) One of the small black velvety pods, which are used
for food in Sierra Leone.
 -- Wild tamarind (Bot.), a name given to certain trees somewhat
resembling the tamarind, as the Lysiloma latisiliqua of Southern
Florida, and the Pithecolobium filicifolium of the West Indies.

TAMARISK
Tam"a*risk, n. Etym: [L. tamariscus, also tamarix, tamarice, Skr.
tamala, tamalaka, a tree with a very dark bark; cf. tamas darkness:
cf. F. tamarisc, tamarix, tamaris.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any shrub or tree of the genus Tamarix, the species of which
are European and Asiatic. They have minute scalelike leaves, and
small flowers in spikes. An Arabian species (T. mannifera) is the
source of one kind of manna. Tamarisk salt tree, an East Indian tree
(Tamarix orientalis) which produces an incrustation of salt.

TAMBAC
Tam"bac, n. (Metal.)

Defn: See Tombac. [Obs.]

TAMBOUR
Tam"bour, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A kind of small flat drum; a tambourine.

2. A small frame, commonly circular, and somewhat resembling a
tambourine, used for stretching, and firmly holding, a portion of
cloth that is to be embroidered; also, the embroidery done upon such
a frame; -- called also, in the latter sense, tambour work.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Drum, n., 2(d).

4. (Fort.)

Defn: A work usually in the form of a redan, to inclose a space
before a door or staircase, or at the gorge of a larger work. It is
arranged like a stockade.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: A shallow metallic cup or drum, with a thin elastic membrane
supporting a writing lever. Two or more of these are connected by an
India rubber tube, and used to transmit and register the movements of
the pulse or of any pulsating artery.

TAMBOUR
Tam"bour, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tamboured; p. pr. & vb. n. Tambouring.]

Defn: To embroider on a tambour.

TAMBOURIN
Tam`bou`rin", n. Etym: [F. See Tambourine.]

1. A tambourine. [Obs.]

2. (Mus.)

Defn: An old Provencal dance of a lively character, common on the
stage.

TAMBOURINE
Tam`bour*ine", n. Etym: [F. tambourin; cf. It. tamburino. See
Tambour, and cf. Tamborine.]

Defn: A small drum, especially a shallow drum with only one skin,
played on with the hand, and having bells at the sides; a timbrel.

TAMBREET
Tam"breet, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The duck mole.

TAMBURIN
Tam`bu*rin", n.

Defn: See Tambourine. Spenser.

TAME
Tame, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. entamer to cut into, to broach.]

Defn: To broach or enter upon; to taste, as a liquor; to divide; to
distribute; to deal out. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
In the time of famine he is the Joseph of the country, and keeps the
poor from starving. Then he tameth his stacks of corn, which not his
covetousness, but providence, hath reserved for time of need. Fuller.

TAME
Tame, a. [Compar. Tamer; superl. Tamest.] Etym: [AS. tam; akin to D.
tam, G. zahm, OHG. zam, Dan. & Sw. tam, Icel. tamr, L. domare to
tame, Gr. dam to be tame, to tame, and perhaps to E. beteem. *61. Cf.
Adamant, Diamond, Dame, Daunt, Indomitable.]

1. Reduced from a state of native wildness and shyness; accustomed to
man; domesticated; domestic; as, a tame deer, a tame bird.

2. Crushed; subdued; depressed; spiritless.
Tame slaves of the laborious plow. Roscommon.

3. Deficient in spirit or animation; spiritless; dull; flat; insipid;
as, a tame poem; tame scenery.

Syn.
 -- Gentle; mild; meek. See Gentle.

TAME
Tame, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Taming.] Etym: [AS.
tamian, temian, akin to D. tammen, temmen, G. zahmen, OHG. zemmen,
Icel. temja, Goth. gatamjan. See Tame, a.]

1. To reduce from a wild to a domestic state; to make gentle and
familiar; to reclaim; to domesticate; as, to tame a wild beast.
They had not been tamed into submission, but baited into savegeness
and stubbornness. Macaulay.

2. To subdue; to conquer; to repress; as, to tame the pride or
passions of youth.

TAMEABLE
Tame"a*ble, a.

Defn: Tamable. Bp. Wilkins.

TAMELESS
Tame"less, a.

Defn: Incapable of being tamed; wild; untamed; untamable. Bp. Hall.
 -- Tame"less*ness, n.

TAMELY
Tame"ly, adv.

Defn: In a tame manner.

TAMENESS
Tame"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tame.

TAMER
Tam"er, n.

Defn: One who tames or subdues.

TAMIAS
Ta"mi*as, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of ground squirrels, including the chipmunk.

TAMIL
Ta"mil, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Tamils, or to their language. [Written
also Tamul.]

TAMIL
Ta"mil, n. Etym: [Written also Tamul.]

1. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of a Dravidian race of men native of Northern Ceylon and
Southern India.

2. The Tamil language, the most important of the Dravidian languages.
See Dravidian, a.

TAMILIAN
Ta*mil"i*an, a. & n.

Defn: Tamil.

TAMINE; TAMINY
Tam"ine, Tam"i*ny, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tamis a sort of sieve. Cf.
Stamin, Temse.]

Defn: A kind of woolen cloth; tammy.

TAMIS
Tam"is, n. Etym: [F., a kind of sieve.]

1. A sieve, or strainer, made of a kind of woolen cloth.

2. The cloth itself; tammy. Tamis bird (Zool.), a Guinea fowl.

TAMKIN
Tam"kin, n.

Defn: A tampion. Johnson (Dict.).

TAMMY
Tam"my, n.; pl. Tammies (.

1. A kind of woolen, or woolen and cotton, cloth, often highly
glazed, -- used for curtains, sieves, strainers, etc.

2. A sieve, or strainer, made of this material; a tamis.

TAMP
Tamp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tamped; p. pr. & vb. n. Tamping.] Etym:
[Cf. F. tamponner to plug or stop. See Tampion.]

1. In blasting, to plug up with clay, earth, dry sand, sod, or other
material, as a hole bored in a rock, in order to prevent the force of
the explosion from being misdirected.

2. To drive in or down by frequent gentle strokes; as, to tamp earth
so as to make a smooth place.

TAMPAN
Tam"pan, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A venomous South African tick. Livingstone.

TAMPEON
Tam"pe*on, n.

Defn: See Tampion. Farrow.

TAMPER
Tamp"er, n.

1. One who tamps; specifically, one who prepares for blasting, by
filling the hole in which the charge is placed.

2. An instrument used in tamping; a tamping iron.

TAMPER
Tam"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tampered; p. pr. & vb. n. Tampering.]
Etym: [A corruption of temper.]

1. To meddle; to be busy; to try little experiments; as, to tamper
with a disease.
'T is dangerous tampering with a muse. Roscommon.

2. To meddle so as to alter, injure, or vitiate a thing.

3. To deal unfairly; to practice secretly; to use bribery.
Others tampered For Fleetwood, Desborough, and Lambert. Hudibras.

TAMPERER
Tam"per*er, n.

Defn: One who tampers; one who deals unfairly.

TAMPICO FIBER; TAMPICO FIBRE
Tam*pi"co fi"ber or; Tam*pi"co fi"bre.

Defn: A tough vegetable fiber used as a substitute for bristles in
making brushes. The piassava and the ixtle are both used under this
name.

TAMPING
Tamp"ing, n.

1. The act of one who tamps; specifically, the act of filling up a
hole in a rock, or the branch of a mine, for the purpose of blasting
the rock or exploding the mine.

2. The material used in tamping. See Tamp, v. t., 1. Tamping iron, an
iron rod for beating down the earthy substance in tamping for
blasting.

TAMPION
Tam"pi*on, n. Etym: [F. tampon, tapon, tape, of Dutch or German
origin. See Tap a pipe or plug, and cf. Tamp, Tampop, Tompion.]
[Written also tampeon, and tompion.]

1. A wooden stopper, or plug, as for a cannon or other piece of
ordnance, when not in use.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A plug for upper end of an organ pipe.

TAMPOE
Tam"poe, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The edible fruit of an East Indian tree (Baccaurea Malayana) of
the Spurge family. It somewhat resembles an apple.

TAMPON
Tam"pon, n. Etym: [F. See Tampion.] (Surg.)

Defn: A plug introduced into a natural or artificial cavity of the
body in order to arrest hemorrhage, or for the application of
medicine.

TAMPON
Tam"pon, v. t. (Surg.)

Defn: To plug with a tampon.

TAMPOON
Tam"poon, n. Etym: [See Tampion.]

Defn: The stopper of a barrel; a bung.

TAM-'-SHANTER
Tam`-o'-shan"ter, n. [So named after Tam o'Shanter, a character in
Burns's poem of the same name.]

Defn: A kind of Scotch cap of wool, worsted, or the like, having a
round, flattish top much wider than the band which fits the head, and
usually having a tassel in the center.

TAM-TAM
Tam"-tam`, n. Etym: [Hind.; of imitative origin.] (Mus.)
(a) A kind of drum used in the East Indies and other Oriental
countries; -- called also tom-tom.
(b) A gong. See Gong, n., 1.

TAMUL
Ta"mul, a. & n.

Defn: Tamil.

TAMWORTH
Tam"worth, n. [From Tamworth, Staffordshire, England.]

Defn: One of a long-established English breed of large pigs. They are
red, often spotted with black, with a long snout and erect or
forwardly pointed ears, and are valued as bacon producers.

TAN
Tan, n. Etym: [Chin.]

Defn: See Picul.

TAN
Tan, n. Etym: [F. tan, perhaps fr. Armor. tann an oak, oak bar; or of
Teutonic origin; cf. G. tanne a fir, OHG. tanna a fir, oak, MHG. tan
a forest. Cf. Tawny.]

1. The bark of the oak, and some other trees, bruised and broken by a
mill, for tanning hides; -- so called both before and after it has
been used. Called also tan bark.

2. A yellowish-brown color, like that of tan.

3. A brown color imparted to the skin by exposure to the sun; as,
hands covered with tan. Tan bed (Hort.), a bed made of tan; a bark
bed.
 -- Tan pickle, the liquor used in tanning leather.
 -- Tan spud, a spud used in stripping bark for tan from trees.
 -- Tan stove. See Bark stove, under Bark.
 -- Tan vat, a vat in which hides are steeped in liquor with tan.

TAN
Tan, a.

Defn: Of the color of tan; yellowish-brown. Black and tan. See under
Black, a.

TAN
Tan, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tanned; p. pr. & vb. n. Tanning.] Etym: [F.
tanner, LL. tannare. See Tan, n.]

1. To convert (the skin of an animal) into leather, as by usual
process of steeping it in an infusion of oak or some other bark,
whereby it is impregnated with tannin, or tannic acid (which exists
in several species of bark), and is thus rendered firm, durable, and
in some degree impervious to water.

Note: The essential result in tanning is due to the fact that the
tannins form, with gelatins and albuminoids, a series of insoluble
compounds which constitute leather. Similar results may be produced
by the use of other reagents in place of tannin, as alum, and some
acids or chlorides, which are employed in certain processes of
tanning.

2. To make brown; to imbrown, as by exposure to the rays of the sun;
as, to tan the skin.

TAN
Tan, v. i.

Defn: To get or become tanned.

TANA
Ta"na, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Banxring.

TANAGER
Tan"a*ger, n. Etym: [NL. tanagra, probably fr. Brazilian tangara.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of bright-colored singing birds
belonging to Tanagra, Piranga, and allied genera. The scarlet tanager
(Piranga erythromelas) and the summer redbird (Piranga rubra) are
common species of the United States.

TANAGRINE
Tan"a*grine, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tanagers.

TANAGROID
Tan"a*groid, a. Etym: [Tanager + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Tanagrine.

TANATE
Ta*na"te, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An Asiatic wild dog (Canis procyonoides), native of Japan and
adjacent countries. It has a short, bushy tail. Called also raccoon
dog.

TANDEM
Tan"dem, adv. & a. Etym: [L. tandem at length (of time only),
punningly taken as meaning, lengthwise.]

Defn: One after another; -- said especially of horses harnessed and
driven one before another, instead of abreast.

TANDEM
Tan"dem, n.

Defn: A team of horses harnessed one before the other. "He drove
tandems." Thackeray. Tandem engine, a compound steam engine having
two or more steam cylinders in the same axis, close to one another.
 -- Tandem bicycle or tricycle, one for two persons in which one
rider sits before the other.

TANDEM CART
Tan"dem cart.

Defn: A kind of two-wheeled vehicle with seats back to back, the
front one somewhat elevated.

TANDEM ENGINE
Tandem engine.

Defn: A steam engine having two or more steam cylinders in line, with
a common piston rod.

TANDEM SYSTEM
Tandem system. (Elec.)

Defn: = Cascade system.

TANG
Tang, n. Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. tang seaweed, Sw. tang,
Icel. ?ang. Cf. Tangle.] (Bot.)

Defn: A coarse blackish seaweed (Fuscus nodosus). Dr. Prior. Tang
sparrow (Zool.), the rock pipit. [Prov. Eng.]

TANG
Tang, n. Etym: [Probably fr. OD. tanger sharp, tart, literally,
pinching; akin to E. tongs. *59. See Tong.]

1. A strong or offensive taste; especially, a taste of something
extraneous to the thing itself; as, wine or cider has a tang of the
cask.

2. Fig.: A sharp, specific flavor or tinge. Cf. Tang a twang.
Such proceedings had a strong tang of tyranny. Fuller.
A cant of philosophism, and a tang of party politics. Jeffrey.

3. Etym: [Probably of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. tangi a projecting
point; akin to E. tongs. See Tongs.]

Defn: A projecting part of an object by means of which it is secured
to a handle, or to some other part; anything resembling a tongue in
form or position. Specifically: --
(a) The part of a knife, fork, file, or other small instrument, which
is inserted into the handle.
(b) The projecting part of the breech of a musket barrel, by which
the barrel is secured to the stock.
(c) The part of a sword blade to which the handle is fastened.
(d) The tongue of a buckle. [Prov. Eng.]

TANG
Tang, n. Etym: [Of imitative origin. Cf. Twang. This word has become
confused with tang tatse, flavor.]

Defn: A sharp, twanging sound; an unpleasant tone; a twang.

TANG
Tang, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tanged; p. pr. & vb. n. Tanging.]

Defn: To cause to ring or sound loudly; to ring.
Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak.
To tang bees, to cause a swarm of bees to settle, by beating metal to
make a din.

TANG
Tang, v. i.

Defn: To make a ringing sound; to ring.
Let thy tongue tang arguments of state. Shak.

TANGALUNG
Tan"ga*lung, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An East Indian civet (Viverra tangalunga).

TANGELO
Tan"ge*lo (tan"je*lo), n.  [Tangerine + pomelo.]

Defn: A hybrid between the tangerine orange and the grapefruit, or
pomelo; also, the fruit.

TANGENCE
Tan"gence, n.

Defn: Tangency. [R.]

TANGENCY
Tan"gen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tangent; a contact or touching.

TANGENT
Tan"gent, n. Etym: [L. tangens, -entis, p.pr. of tangere to touch;
akin to Gr. tangente. Cf. Attain, Contaminate, Contingent, Entire,
Tact, Taste, Tax, v. t.] (Geom.)

Defn: A tangent line curve, or surface; specifically, that portion of
the straight line tangent to a curve that is between the point of
tangency and a given line, the given line being, for example, the
axis of abscissas, or a radius of a circle produced. See
Trigonometrical function, under Function. Artificial, or Logarithmic,
tangent, the logarithm of the natural tangent of an arc.
 -- Natural tangent, a decimal expressing the length of the tangent
of an arc, the radius being reckoned unity.
 -- Tangent galvanometer (Elec.), a form of galvanometer having a
circular coil and a short needle, in which the tangent of the angle
of deflection of the needle is proportional to the strength of the
current.
 -- Tangent of an angle, the natural tangent of the arc subtending or
measuring the angle.
 -- Tangent of an arc, a right line, as ta, touching the arc of a
circle at one extremity a, and terminated by a line ct, passing from
the center through the other extremity o.

TANGENT
Tan"gent, a. Etym: [L. tangens, -entis, p.pr.]

Defn: Touching; touching at a single point; specifically (Geom.)

Defn: meeting a curve or surface at a point and having at that point
the same direction as the curve or surface; -- said of a straight
line, curve, or surface; as, a line tangent to a curve; a curve
tangent to a surface; tangent surfaces. Tangent plane (Geom.), a
plane which touches a surface in a point or line.
 -- Tangent scale (Gun.), a kind of breech sight for a cannon.
 -- Tangent screw (Mach.), an endless screw; a worm.

TANGENTAL
Tan*gen"tal, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Tangential.

TANGENTIAL
Tan*gen"tial, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tangent; in the direction of a tangent.
Tangential force (Mech.), a force which acts on a moving body in the
direction of a tangent to the path of the body, its effect being to
increase or diminish the velocity; -- distinguished from a normal
force, which acts at right angles to the tangent and changes the
direction of the motion without changing the velocity.
 -- Tangential stress. (Engin.) See Shear, n., 3.

TANGENTIALLY
Tan*gen"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In the direction of a tangent.

TANGENT SPOKE
Tangent spoke.

Defn: A tension spoke of a bicycle or similar wheel, secured
tangentially to the hub.

TANGENT WHEEL
Tangent wheel.
 (a) A worm or worm wheel; a tangent screw.
 (b) A wheel with tangent spokes.

TANGERINE
Tan"ger*ine`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of orange, much like the mandarin, but of deeper color
and higher flavor. It is said to have been produced in America from
the mandarin. [Written also tangierine.]

TANGFISH
Tang"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The common harbor seal. [Prov. Eng.]

TANGHINIA
Tan*ghin"i*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: The ordeal tree. See under Ordeal.

TANGIBILITY
Tan`gi*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tanggibilite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being tangible.

TANGIBLE
Tan"gi*ble, a. Etym: [L. tangibilis, fr. tangere to touch: cf. F.
tangible. See Tangent.]

1. Perceptible to the touch; tactile; palpable. Bacon.

2. Capable of being possessed or realized; readily apprehensible by
the mind; real; substantial; evident. "A tangible blunder." Byron.
Direct and tangible benefit to ourselves and others. Southey.
-- Tan"gi*ble*ness, n.
 -- Tan"gi*bly, adv.

TANGLE
Tan"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tangled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tangling.]
Etym: [A frequentative fr. tang seaweed; hence, to twist like
seaweed. See Tang seaweed, and cf. Tangle, n.]

1. To unite or knit together confusedly; to interweave or interlock,
as threads, so as to make it difficult to unravel the knot; to
entangle; to ravel.

2. To involve; to insnare; to entrap; as, to be tangled in lies.
"Tangled in amorous nets." Milton.
When my simple weakness strays, Tangled in forbidden ways. Crashaw.

TANGLE
Tan"gle, v. i.

Defn: To be entangled or united confusedly; to get in a tangle.

TANGLE
Tan"gle, n.

1. Etym: [Cf. Icel. ?ongull. See Tang seaweed.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any large blackish seaweed, especially the Laminaria
saccharina. See Kelp.
Coral and sea fan and tangle, the blooms and the palms of the ocean.
C. Kingsley.

2. Etym: [From Tangle, v.]

Defn: A knot of threads, or other thing, united confusedly, or so
interwoven as not to be easily disengaged; a snarl; as, hair or yarn
in tangles; a tangle of vines and briers. Used also figuratively.

3. pl.

Defn: An instrument consisting essentiallly of an iron bar to which
are attached swabs, or bundles of frayed rope, or other similar
substances, -- used to capture starfishes, sea urchins, and other
similar creatures living at the bottom of the sea. Blue tangle.
(Bot.)See Dangleberry.
 -- Tangle picker (Zool.), the turnstone. [Prov. Eng.]

TANGLEFISH
Tan"gle*fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The sea adder, or great pipefish of Europe.

TANGLINGLY
Tan"gling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tangling manner.

TANGLY
Tan"gly, a.

1. Entangled; intricate.

2. Covered with tangle, or seaweed.
Prone, helpless, on the tangly beach he lay. Falconer.

TANGO
Tan"go, n.; pl. Tangos (#). [Sp., a certain dance.]
 (a) A difficult dance in two-four time characterized by graceful
posturing, frequent pointing positions, and a great variety of steps,
including the cross step and turning steps. The dance is of Spanish
origin, and is believed to have been in its original form a part of
the fandango.
 (b) Any of various popular forms derived from this.

TANGRAM
Tan"gram, n. Etym: [Cf. Trangram.]

Defn: A Chinese toy made by cutting a square of thin wood, or other
suitable material, into seven pieces, as shown in the cut, these
pieces being capable of combination in various ways, so as to form a
great number of different figures. It is now often used in primary
schools as a means of instruction.

TANGUE
Tangue, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The tenrec.

TANGUN
Tan"gun, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A piebald variety of the horse, native of Thibet.

TANGWHAUP
Tang"whaup, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The whimbrel. [Prov. Eng.]

TANIER
Tan"i*er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An aroid plant (Caladium sagitt?folium), the leaves of which
are boiled and eaten in the West Indies. [Written also tannier.]

TANIST
Tan"ist, n. Etym: [Ir. tanaiste, tanaise, second, the second person
in rank, the presumptive or apparent heir to a prince.]

Defn: In Ireland, a lord or proprietor of a tract of land or of a
castle, elected by a family, under the system of tanistry.
This family [the O'Hanlons] were tanists of a large territory within
the present county of Armagh. M. A. Lower.

TANISTRY
Tan"ist*ry, n. Etym: [See Tanist.]

Defn: In Ireland, a tenure of family lands by which the proprietor
had only a life estate, to which he was admitted by election.

Note: The primitive intention seems to have been that the inheritance
should descend to the oldest or most worthy of the blood and name of
the deceased. This was, in reality, giving it to the strongest; and
the practice often occasioned bloody feuds in families, for which
reason it was abolished under James I.

TANITE
Ta"nite, n.

Defn: A firm composition of emery and a certain kind of cement, used
for making grinding wheels, slabs, etc.

TANK
Tank, n.

Defn: A small Indian dry measure, averaging 240 grains in weight;
also, a Bombay weight of 72 grains, for pearls. Simmonds.

TANK
Tank, n. Etym: [Pg. tanque, L. stangum a pool; or perhaps of East
Indian origin. Cf. Stank, n.]

Defn: A large basin or cistern; an artificial receptacle for liquids.
Tank engine, a locomotive which carries the water and fuel it
requires, thus dispensing with a tender.
 -- Tank iron, plate iron thinner than boiler plate, and thicker than
sheet iron or stovepipe iron.
 -- Tank worm (Zool.), a small nematoid worm found in the water tanks
of India, supposed by some to be the young of the Guinea worm.

TANKA
Tan"ka, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A kind of boat used in Canton. It is about 25 feet long and is
often rowed by women. Called also tankia. S. W. Williams.

TANKAGE
Tank"age, n.

1. The act or process of putting or storing in tanks.

2.  Fees charged for storage in tanks.

3.  The capacity or contents of a tank or tanks.

4.  (Agric.) Waste matter from tanks; esp., the dried nitrogenous
residue from tanks in which fat has been rendered, used as a
fertilizer.

TANKARD
Tank"ard, n. Etym: [OF. tanquart; cf. OD. tanckaert; of uncertain
origin.]

Defn: A large drinking vessel, especially one with a cover.
Marius was the first who drank out of a silver tankard, after the
manner of Bacchus. Arbuthnot.

TANKIA
Tan"ki*a, n. (Naut.)

Defn: See Tanka.

TANKLING
Tank"ling, n.

Defn: A tinkling. [Obs.]

TANK SHIP; TANK VESSEL
Tank ship, Tank vessel . (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel fitted with tanks for the carrying of oil or other
liquid in bulk.

TANLING
Tan"ling, n.

Defn: One tanned by the sun. [R.]
Hot summer's tanlings and The shrinking slaves of winter. Shak.

TANNABLE
Tan"na*ble, a.

Defn: That may be tanned.

TANNAGE
Tan"nage, n.

Defn: A tanning; the act, operation, or result of tanning. [R.]
They should have got his cheek fresh tannage. R. Browning.

TANNATE
Tan"nate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tannate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tannic acid.

TANNER
Tan"ner, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to tan hides, or convert them into
leather by the use of tan.

TANNERY
Tan"ner*y, n.; pl. Tanneries. Etym: [Cf. F. tannerie.]

1. A place where the work of tanning is carried on.

2. The art or process of tanning. [R.] Carlyle.

TANNIC
Tan"nic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to tan; derived from, or resembling, tan; as,
tannic acid. Tannic acid. (Chem.) (a) An acid obtained from nutgalls
as a yellow amorphous substance, C14H10O9, having an astringent
taste, and forming with ferric salts a bluish-black compound, which
is the basis of common ink. Called also tannin, and gallotannic acid.
(b) By extension, any one of a series of astringent substances
resembling tannin proper, widely diffused through the vegetable
kingdom, as in oak bark, willow, catechu, tea, coffee, etc.

TANNIER
Tan"ni*er, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Tanier.

TANNIGEN
Tan"ni*gen, n.  [Tannin + -gen.] (Pharm.)

Defn: A compound obtained as a yellowish gray powder by the action of
acetyl chloride or acetic anhydride or ordinary tannic acid. It is
used as an intestinal astringent, and locally in rhinitis and
pharyngitis.

TANNIN
Tan"nin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tannin.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Tannic acid, under Tannic.

TANNING
Tan"ning, n.

Defn: The art or process of converting skins into leather. See Tan,
v. t., 1.

TANREC
Tan"rec, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Tenrec.

TANSY
Tan"sy, n. Etym: [OE. tansaye, F. tanaise; cf. It. & Sp. tanaceto,
NL. tanacetum, Pg. atanasia, athanasia, Gr. 'aqanasi`a immortality,
fr. 'aqa`natos immortal; 'a priv. + qa`natos death.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the composite genus Tanacetum. The common tansy
(T. vulgare) has finely divided leaves, a strong aromatic odor, and a
very bitter taste. It is used for medicinal and culinary purposes.

2. A dish common in the seventeenth century, made of eggs, sugar,
rose water, cream, and the juice of herbs, baked with butter in a
shallow dish. [Obs.] Pepys. Double tansy (Bot.), a variety of the
common tansy with the leaves more dissected than usual.
 -- Tansy mustard (Bot.), a plant (Sisymbrium canescens) of the
Mustard family, with tansylike leaves.

TANT
Tant, n. Etym: [Cf. Taint tincture.] (Zool.)

Defn: A small scarlet arachnid.

TANTALATE
Tan"ta*late, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tantalic acid.

TANTALIC
Tan*tal"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tantalum; derived from, or containing,
tantalum; specifically, designating any one of a series of acids
analogous to nitric acid and the polyacid compounds of phosphorus.

TANTALISM
Tan"ta*lism, n. Etym: [See Tantalize.]

Defn: A punishment like that of Tantalus; a teasing or tormenting by
the hope or near approach of good which is not attainable;
tantalization. Addison.
Is not such a provision like tantalism to this people Josiah Quincy.

TANTALITE
Tan"ta*lite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tantalite.] (Min.)

Defn: A heavy mineral of an iron-black color and submetallic luster.
It is essentially a tantalate of iron.

TANTALIZATION
Tan`ta*li*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of tantalizing, or state of being tantalized. Gayton.

TANTALIZE
Tan"ta*lize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tantalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tantalizing.] Etym: [From Tantalus: cf. F. tantaliser.]

Defn: To tease or torment by presenting some good to the view and
exciting desire, but continually frustrating the expectations by
keeping that good out of reach; to tease; to torment.
Thy vain desires, at strife Within themselves, have tantalized thy
life. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To tease; vex; irritate; provoke.
 -- Tantalize, Disappoint. To disappoint is literally to do away with
what was (or was taken to be) appointed; hence the peculiar pain from
hopes thus dashed to the ground. To tantalize, a much stronger term,
describes a most distressing form of disappointment, as in the case
of Tantalus, the Phrygian king. To tantalize is to visit with the
bitterest disappointment -- to torment by exciting hopes or
expectations which can never be realized.

TANTALIZER
Tan"ta*li`zer, n.

Defn: One who tantalizes.

TANTALIZINGLY
Tan"ta*li`zing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tantalizing or teasing manner.

TANTALUM
Tan"ta*lum, n. Etym: [NL. So named on account of the perplexity and
difficulty encounterd by its discoverer (Ekeberg) in isolating it.
See Tantalus.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare nonmetallic element found in certain minerals, as
tantalite, samarskite, and fergusonite, and isolated as a dark powder
which becomes steel-gray by burnishing. Symbol Ta. Atomic weight
182.0. Formerly called also tantalium.

TANTALUS
Tan"ta*lus, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. Ta`ntalos.] (Gr. Myth.)

1. A Phrygian king who was punished in the lower world by being
placed in the midst of a lake whose waters reached to his chin but
receded whenever he attempted to allay his thirst, while over his
head hung branches laden with choice fruit which likewise receded
whenever he stretched out his hand to grasp them.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of wading birds comprising the wood ibises. Tantalus's
cup (Physics), a philosophical toy, consisting of a cup, within which
is the figure of a man, and within the figure a siphon, the longer
arm of which passes down through the bottom of the cup, and allows
the escape of any liquid that may be poured in, when it reaches as
high as the bend of the siphon, which is just below the level of the
mouth of the figure in the cup.

TANTAMOUNT
Tan"ta*mount`, a. Etym: [F. tant so much (L. tantus) + E. amount.]

Defn: Equivalent in value, signification, or effect.
A usage nearly tantamount to constitutional right. Hallam.
The certainty that delay, under these circumstances, was tantamount
to ruin. De Quincey.

TANTAMOUNT
Tan"ta*mount`, v. i.

Defn: To be tantamount or equivalent; to amount. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

TANTIVY
Tan*tiv"y, adv. Etym: [Said to be from the note of a hunting horn.]

Defn: Swiftly; speedily; rapidly; -- a fox-hunting term; as, to ride
tantivy.

TANTIVY
Tan*tiv"y, n.

Defn: A rapid, violent gallop; an impetulous rush. Cleverland.

TANTIVY
Tan*tiv"y, v. i.

Defn: To go away in haste. [Colloq.]

TANTRA
Tan"tra (tan"tra; tun"-), n. [Skr.] (Hinduism)

Defn: A ceremonial treatise related to Puranic and magic literature;
esp., one of the sacred works of the worshipers of Sakti. -- Tan"tric
(-trik), a.

TANTRISM
Tan"trism, n.

Defn: The system of doctrines and  rites taught in the tantras. --
Tan"trist (#), n.

TANTRUM
Tan"trum, n.

Defn: A whim, or burst of ill-humor; an affected air. [Colloq.]
Thackeray.

TANYARD
Tan"yard`, n.

Defn: An inclosure where the tanning of leather is carried on; a
tannery.

TANYSTOMATA
Tan`y*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of dipterous insects in which the proboscis is large
and contains lancelike mandibles and maxill?. The horseflies and
robber flies are examples.

TAOISM
Ta"o*ism, n.

Defn: One of the popular religions of China, sanctioned by the state.
 -- Ta"o*ist, a. & n.

TAOTAI
Tao`tai", n. [Chin. tao circuit + t'ai, a title of respect.]

Defn: In China, an official at the head of the civil and military
affairs of a circuit, which consists of two or more fu, or
territorial departments; --called also, by foreigners, intendant of
circuit. Foreign consuls and commissioners associated with taotais as
superintendants of trade at the treaty ports are ranked with the
taotai.

TAP
Tap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Tapping.] Etym: [F.
taper to strike; of Teutonic origin; cf. dial. G. tapp, tapps, a
blow, tappe a paw, fist, G. tappen to grope.]

1. To strike with a slight or gentle blow; to touch gently; to rap
lightly; to pat; as, to tap one with the hand or a cane.

2. To put a new sole or heel on; as, to tap shoes.

TAP
Tap, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tape. See Tap to strike.]

1. A gentle or slight blow; a light rap; a pat. Addison.

2. A piece of leather fastened upon the bottom of a boot or shoe in
repairing or renewing the sole or heel.

3. pl. (Mil.)

Defn: A signal, by drum or trumpet, for extinguishing all lights in
soldiers' quarters and retiring to bed, -- usually given about a
quarter of an hour after tattoo. Wilhelm.

TAP
Tap, v. i.

Defn: To strike a gentle blow.

TAP
Tap, n. Etym: [AS. t?ppa, akin to D. tap, G. zapfen, OHG. zapfo, Dan.
tap, Sw. tapp, Icel. tappi. Cf. Tampion, Tip.]

1. A hole or pipe through which liquor is drawn.

2. A plug or spile for stopping a hole pierced in a cask, or the
like; a faucet.

3. Liquor drawn through a tap; hence, a certain kind or quality of
liquor; as, a liquor of the same tap. [Colloq.]

4. A place where liquor is drawn for drinking; a taproom; a bar.
[Colloq.]

5. (Mech.)

Defn: A tool for forming an internal screw, as in a nut, consisting
of a hardened steel male screw grooved longitudinally so as to have
cutting edges. On tap. (a) Ready to be drawn; as, ale on tap. (b)
Broached, or furnished with a tap; as, a barrel on tap.
 -- Plug tap (Mech.), a screw-cutting tap with a slightly tapering
end.
 -- Tap bolt, a bolt with a head on one end and a thread on the other
end, to be screwed into some fixed part, instead of passing through
the part and receiving a nut. See Illust. under Bolt.
 -- Tap cinder (Metal.), the slag of a puddling furnace.

TAP
Tap, v. t.

1. To pierce so as to let out, or draw off, a fluid; as, to tap a
cask, a tree, a tumor, etc.

2. Hence, to draw from (anything) in any analogous way; as, to tap
telegraph wires for the purpose of intercepting information; to tap
the treasury.

3. To draw, or cause to flow, by piercing. Shak.
He has been tapping his liquors. Addison.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: To form an internal screw in (anything) by means of a tool
called a tap; as, to tap a nut.

TAPA
Ta"pa, n.

Defn: A kind of cloth prepared by the Polynesians from the inner bark
of the paper mulberry; -- sometimes called also kapa.

TAPADERA; TAPADERO
Tap`a*de"ra, Tap`a*de"ro, n. [Also tapidero.] [Sp. tapadera lid,
cover.]

Defn: One of the leather hoods which cover the stirrups of a Mexican
saddle.

TAPAYAXIN
Ta`pa*yax"in, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A Mexican spinous lizard (Phrynosoma orbiculare) having a head
somewhat like that of a toad; -- called also horned toad.

TAPE
Tape, n. Etym: [AS. t?ppe a fillet. Cf. Tapestry, Tippet.]

1. A narrow fillet or band of cotton or linen; a narrow woven fabric
used for strings and the like; as, curtains tied with tape.

2. A tapeline; also, a metallic ribbon so marked as to serve as a
tapeline; as, a steel tape. Red tape. See under Red.
 -- Tape grass (Bot.), a plant (Vallisneria spiralis) with long
ribbonlike leaves, growing in fresh or brackish water; -- called also
fresh-water eelgrass, and, in Maryland, wild celery.
 -- Tape needle. See Bodkin, n., 4.

TAPELINE
Tape"line`, n.

Defn: A painted tape, marked with linear dimensions, as inches, feet,
etc., and often inclosed in a case, -- used for measuring.

TAPER
Ta"per, n. Etym: [AS. tapur, tapor, taper; cf. Ir. tapar, W. tampr.]

1. A small wax candle; a small lighted wax candle; hence, a small
light.
Get me a taper in my study, Lucius. Shak.

2. A tapering form; gradual diminution of thickness in an elongated
object; as, the taper of a spire.

TAPER
Ta"per, a. Etym: [Supposed to be from taper, n., in allusion to its
form.]

Defn: Regularly narrowed toward the point; becoming small toward one
end; conical; pyramidical; as, taper fingers.

TAPER
Ta"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tapered; p. pr. & vb. n. Tapering.]

Defn: To become gradually smaller toward one end; as, a sugar loaf
tapers toward one end.

TAPER
Ta"per, v. t.

Defn: To make or cause to taper.

TAPERED
Ta"pered, a.

Defn: Lighted with a taper or tapers; as, a tapered choir. [R.] T.
Warton.

TAPERING
Ta"per*ing, a.

Defn: Becoming gradually smaller toward one end.
 -- Ta"per*ing*ly, adv.

TAPERNESS
Ta"per*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being taper; tapering form; taper.
Shenstone.

TAPESTRY
Tap"es*try, n.; pl. Tapestries. Etym: [F. tapissere, fr. tapisser to
carpet, to hang, or cover with tapestry, fr. tapis a carpet,
carpeting, LL. tapecius, fr. L. tapete carpet, tapestry, Gr. Tapis,
Tippet.]

Defn: A fabric, usually of worsted, worked upon a warp of linen or
other thread by hand, the designs being usually more or less
pictorial and the stuff employed for wall hangings and the like. The
term is also applied to different kinds of embroidery. Tapestry
carpet, a kind of carpet, somewhat resembling Brussels, in which the
warp is printed before weaving, so as to produce the figure in the
cloth.
 -- Tapestry moth. (Zool.) Same as Carpet moth, under Carpet.

TAPESTRY
Tap"es*try, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tapestried; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tapestrying.]

Defn: To adorn with tapestry, or as with tapestry.
The Trosachs wound, as now, between gigantic walls of rock tapestried
with broom and wild roses. Macaulay.

TAPESTRY BEETLE
Tap"es*try bee"tle.

Defn: A small black dermestoid beetle (Attagenus piceus) whose larva
feeds on tapestry, carpets, silk, fur, flour, and various other
goods.

TAPET
Tap"et, n. Etym: [L. tapete. See Tapestry.]

Defn: Worked or figured stuff; tapestry. [R.] Spenser.

TAPETI
Tap"e*ti, n.; pl. Tapetis. Etym: [Braz.] (Zool.)

Defn: A small South American hare (Lepus Braziliensis).

TAPETUM
Ta*pe"tum, n. Etym: [NL., from L. tapete a carpet, a tapestry.]
(Anat.)

Defn: An area in the pigmented layer of the choroid coat of the eye
in many animals, which has an iridescent or metallic luster and helps
to make the eye visible in the dark. Sometimes applied to the whole
layer of pigmented epithelium of the choroid.

TAPEWORM
Tape"worm`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of cestode worms belonging to T?nia
and many allied genera. The body is long, flat, and composed of
numerous segments or proglottids varying in shape, those toward the
end of the body being much larger and longer than the anterior ones,
and containing the fully developed sexual organs. The head is small,
destitute of a mouth, but furnished with two or more suckers (which
vary greatly in shape in different genera), and sometimes, also, with
hooks for adhesion to the walls of the intestines of the animals in
which they are parasitic. The larv? (see Cysticercus) live in the
flesh of various creatures, and when swallowed by another animal of
the right species develop into the mature tapeworm in its intestine.
See Illustration in Appendix.

Note: Three species are common parasites of man: the pork tapeworm
(T?nia solium), the larva of which is found in pork; the beef
tapeworm (T. mediocanellata), the larva of which lives in the flesh
of young cattle; and the broad tapeworm (Bothriocephalus latus) which
is found chiefly in the inhabitants of the mountainous regions of
Europe and Asia. See also Echinococcus, Cysticercus, Proglottis, and
2d Measles, 4.

TAPHOUSE
Tap"house`, n.

Defn: A house where liquors are retailed.

TAPHRENCHYMA
Taph*ren"chy*ma, n. Etym: [Gr. enchyma, as in parenchyma.] (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Bothrenchyma.

TAPINAGE
Tap"i*nage, n. Etym: [See Tapish.]

Defn: A lurking or skulking. [Obs.] Gower.

TAPIOCA
Tap`i*o"ca, n. Etym: [Braz. tapioka: cf. Pg., Sp. & F. tapioca.]

Defn: A coarsely granular substance obtained by heating, and thus
partly changing, the moistened starch obtained from the roots of the
cassava. It is much used in puddings and as a thickening for soups.
See Cassava.

TAPIR
Ta"pir, n. Etym: [Braz. tapy'ra: cf. F. tapir.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large odd-toed ungulates
belonging to Tapirus, Elasmognathus, and allied genera. They have a
long prehensile upper lip, short ears, short and stout legs, a short,
thick tail, and short, close hair. They have three toes on the hind
feet, and four toes on the fore feet, but the outermost toe is of
little use.

Note: The best-known species are the Indian tapir (Tapirus Indicus),
native of the East Indies and Malacca, which is black with a broad
band of white around the middle, and the common American tapir (T.
Americanus), which, when adult, is dull brown. Several others species
inhabit the Andes and Central America. Tapir tiger (Zool.), the
wallah.

TAPIROID
Ta"pir*oid, a. Etym: [Tapir + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Allied to the tapir, or the Tapir family.

TAPIS
Ta"pis, n. Etym: [F. See Tapestry.]

Defn: Tapestry; formerly, the cover of a council table. On, or Upon,
the tapis, on the table, or under consideration; as, to lay a motion
in Parliament on the tapis.

TAPIS
Tap"is, v. t.

Defn: To cover or work with figures like tapestry. [R.] Holland.

TAPISER
Tap"is*er, n. Etym: [F. tapissier.]

Defn: A maker of tapestry; an upholsterer. [R.] Chaucer.

TAPISH
Tap"ish, v. i. Etym: [F. se tapir to squat.]

Defn: To lie close to the ground, so as to be concealed; to squat; to
crouch; hence, to hide one's self. [Written also tappis, tappish,
tappice.] [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]
As a hound that, having roused a hart, Although he tappish ne'er so
soft. Chapman.

TAPLASH
Tap"lash`, n.

Defn: Bad small beer; also, the refuse or dregs of liquor. [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.]
The taplash of strong ale and wine. Taylor (1630).

TAPLINGS
Tap"lings, n. pl.

Defn: The strong double leathers by which the two parts of a flail
are united. Halliwell.

TAPOA TAFA
Ta*po"a ta"fa. (Zool.)

Defn: A small carnivorous marsupial (Phascogale penicillata) having
long, soft fur, and a very long tail with a tuft of long hairs at the
end; -- called also brush-tailed phascogale.

TAPPEN
Tap"pen, n.

Defn: An obstruction, or indigestible mass, found in the intestine of
bears and other animals during hibernation.

TAPPER
Tap"per, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The lesser spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopus minor); -- called
also tapperer, tabberer, little wood pie, barred woodpecker, wood
tapper, hickwall, and pump borer. [Prov. Eng.]

TAPPESTER
Tap"pes*ter, n. Etym: [See Tapster.]

Defn: A female tapster. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TAPPET
Tap"pet, n. (Mach.)

Defn: A lever or projection moved by some other piece, as a cam, or
intended to tap or touch something else, with a view to produce
change or regulate motion. G. Francis. Tappet motion, a valve motion
worked by tappets from a reciprocating part, without an eccentric or
cam, -- used in steam pumps, etc.

TAPPET ROD
Tap"pet rod. (Mech.)

Defn: A rod carrying a tappet or tappets, as one for closing the
valves in a Cornish pumping engine.

TAPPICE; TAPPIS
Tap"pice, Tap"pis, v. i.

Defn: See Tapish.

TAPPIT HEN
Tap"pit hen`.

1. A hen having a tuft of feathers on her head. [Scot.] Jamieson.

2. A measuring pot holding one quart (according to some, three
quarts); -- so called from a knob on the lid, though to resemble a
crested hen. [Scot.] Jamieson.

TAPPOON
Tap*poon", n. [Sp. tampon a stopper.] (Irrigation)

Defn: A piece of wood or sheet metal fitted into a ditch to dam up
the water so as to overflow a field. [U. S.]

TAPROOM
Tap"room`, n.

Defn: A room where liquors are kept on tap; a barroom.
The ambassador was put one night into a miserable taproom, full of
soldiers smoking. Macaulay.

TAPROOT
Tap"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The root of a plant which penetrates the earth directly
downward to a considerable depth without dividing.

TAPSTER
Tap"ster, n. Etym: [AS. t?ppestre a female tapster. See Tap a plug,
pipe, and -ster.]

Defn: One whose business is to tap or draw ale or other liquor.

TAQUA-NUT
Ta"qua-nut`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A Central American name for the ivory nut.

TAR
Tar, n. Etym: [Abbrev. from tarpaulin.]

Defn: A sailor; a seaman. [Colloq.] Swift.

TAR
Tar, n. Etym: [OE. terre, tarre, AS. teru, teoru; akin to D. teer, G.
teer, theer, Icel. tjara, Sw. tjara, Dan. ti?re, and to E. tree. *63.
See Tree.]

Defn: A thick, black, viscous liquid obtained by the distillation of
wood, coal, etc., and having a varied composition according to the
temperature and material employed in obtaining it. Coal tar. See in
the Vocabulary.
 -- Mineral tar (Min.), a kind of soft native bitumen.
 -- Tar board, a strong quality of millboard made from junk and old
tarred rope. Knight.
 -- Tar water. (a) A cold infusion of tar in water, used as a
medicine. (b) The ammoniacal water of gas works.
 -- Wood tar, tar obtained from wood. It is usually obtained by the
distillation of the wood of the pine, spruce, or fir, and is used in
varnishes, cements, and to render ropes, oakum, etc., impervious to
water.

TAR
Tar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tarred; p. pr. & vb. n. Tarring.]

Defn: To smear with tar, or as with tar; as, to tar ropes; to tar
cloth. To tar and feather a person. See under Feather, v. t.

TARANIS
Tar"a*nis, n. Etym: [L. taranis, from the Celtic; cf. W. & Corn.
taran thunder.] (Myth.)

Defn: A Celtic divinity, regarded as the evil principle, but
confounded by the Romans with Jupiter.

TARANTASS
Tar`an*tass", n. Etym: [Russ. tarantas'.]

Defn: A low four-wheeled carriage used in Russia. The carriage box
rests on two long, springy poles which run from the fore to the hind
axletree. When snow falls, the wheels are taken off, and the body is
mounted on a sledge.

TARANTELLA
Tar`an*tel"la, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)
(a) A rapid and delirious sort of Neapolitan dance in 6-8 time, which
moves in whirling triplets; -- so called from a popular notion of its
being a remedy against the poisonous bite of the tarantula. Some
derive its name from Taranto in Apulia.
(b) Music suited to such a dance.

TARANTISM
Tar"ant*ism, n. Etym: [It. tarantismo: cf. F. tarentisme. See
Tarantula.] (Med.)

Defn: A nervous affection producing melancholy, stupor, and an
uncontrollable desire to dance. It was supposed to be produced by the
bite of the tarantula, and considered to be incapable of cure except
by protraced dancing to appropriate music. [Written also tarentism.]

TARANTULA
Ta*ran"tu*la, n.; pl. E. Tarantulas, L. Tarantul?. Etym: [NL., fr.
It. tarantola, fr. L. Tarentum, now Taranto, in the south of Italy.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large spiders, popularly supposed
to be very venomous, especially the European species (Tarantula
apuli?). The tarantulas of Texas and adjacent countries are large
species of Mygale. [Written also tarentula.] Tarantula killer, a very
large wasp (Pompilus formosus), which captures the Texan tarantula
(Mygale Hentzii) and places it in its nest as food for its young,
after paralyzing it by a sting.

TARANTULATED
Ta*ran"tu*la`ted, a.

Defn: Bitten by a tarantula; affected with tarantism.

TARBOGAN
Tar*bog"an, n. & v.

Defn: See Toboggan.

TARBOOSH
Tar*boosh", n. Etym: [Ar. tarb; perhaps from Per. sar-posh headdress:
cf. F. tarbouch.]

Defn: A red cap worn by Turks and other Eastern nations, sometimes
alone and sometimes swathed with linen or other stuff to make a
turban. See Fez.

TARDATION
Tar*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. tardatio, fr. tardare, tardatum, to retard,
delay, fr. tardus slow.]

Defn: The act of retarding, or delaying; retardation. [Obs.]

TARDIGRADA
Tar`di*gra"da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Tardigrade, a.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A tribe of edentates comprising the sloths. They are noted for
the slowness of their movements when on the ground. See Sloth, 3.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of minute aquatic arachnids; -- called also bear
animalcules, sloth animalcules, and water bears.

TARDIGRADE
Tar"di*grade, a. Etym: [L. tardigradus; tardus slow + gradi to step:
cf. F. tardigrade.]

1. Moving or stepping slowly; slow-paced. [R.] G. Eliot.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Tardigrada.

TARDIGRADE
Tar"di*grade, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Tardigrada.

TARDIGRADOUS
Tar"di*gra`dous, a.

Defn: Moving slowly; slow-paced. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

TARDILY
Tar"di*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tardy manner; slowly.

TARDINESS
Tar"di*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tardy.

TARDITATION
Tar`di*ta"tion, n.

Defn: Tardiness. [Obs.]
To instruct them to avoid all snares of tarditation, in the Lord's
affairs. Herrick.

TARDITY
Tar"di*ty, n. Etym: [L. tarditas.]

Defn: Slowness; tardiness. [R.] Sir K. Digby.

TARDO
Tar"do, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Slow; -- a direction to perform a passage slowly.

TARDO
Tar"do, n. Etym: [Sp., slow, L. tardus.] (Zool.)

Defn: A sloth.

TARDY
Tar"dy, a. [Compar. Tardier; superl. Tardiest.] Etym: [F. tardif, fr.
(assumed) LL. tardivus, fr. L. tardus slow.]

1. Moving with a slow pace or motion; slow; not swift.
And check the tardy flight of time. Sandys.
Tardy to vengeance, and with mercy brave. Prior.

2. Not being inseason; late; dilatory; -- opposed to prompt; as, to
be tardy in one's payments. Arbuthnot.
The tardy plants in our cold orchards placed. Waller.

3. Unwary; unready. [Obs.] Hudibras.

4. Criminal; guilty. [Obs.] Collier.

Syn.
 -- Slow; dilatory; tedious; reluctant. See Slow.

TARDY
Tar"dy, v. t.

Defn: To make tardy. [Obs.] Shak.

TARE
Tare, obs. imp. of Tear.

Defn: Tore.

TARE
Tare, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. tare brisk, eager, OE. tarefitch the
wild vetch.]

1. A weed that grows among wheat and other grain; -- alleged by
modern naturalists to be the Lolium temulentum, or darnel.
Didst not thou sow good seed in thy field From whence then hath it
tares Matt. xiii. 27.
The "darnel" is said to be the tares of Scripture, and is the only
deleterious species belonging to the whole order. Baird.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of several climbing or diffuse leguminous herbs of the
genus Vicia; especially, the V. sativa, sometimes grown for fodder.

TARE
Tare, n. Etym: [F. tare; cf. Pr., Sp., Pg., & It. tara; all fr. Ar.
tarah thrown away, removed, fr. taraha to reject, remove.] (Com.)

Defn: Deficientcy in the weight or quantity of goods by reason of the
weight of the cask, bag, or whatever contains the commodity, and is
weighed with it; hence, the allowance or abatement of a certain
weight or quantity which the seller makes to the buyer on account of
the weight of such cask, bag, etc.

TARE
Tare, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tared; p. pr. & vb. n. Taring.]

Defn: To ascertain or mark the tare of (goods).

TARED
Tared, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Weighed; determined; reduced to equal or standard weight; as,
tared filter papers, used in weighing precipitates.

TARENTE
Ta*ren"te, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tarente.] (Zool.)

Defn: A harmless lizard of the Gecko family (Platydactylus
Mauritianicus) found in Southern Europe and adjacent countries,
especially among old walls and ruins.

TARENTISM
Tar"ent*ism, n.

Defn: See Tarantism.

TARENTULA
Ta*ren"tu*la, n.

Defn: See Tarantula.

TARGE
Targe, n. Etym: [F. Cf. Target.]

Defn: A shield or target. [Obs. or Poetic] "A buckler on a targe."
Chaucer.

TARGET
Tar"get, n. Etym: [OF. targette, dim. of OF. & F. targe, of Teutonic
origin; cf. AS. targe, OD. targie, G. zarge a frame, case, border,
OHG. zarga, Icel. targa shield.]

1. A kind of small shield or buckler, used as a defensive weapon in
war.

2.
(a) A butt or mark to shoot at, as for practice, or to test the
accuracy of a firearm, or the force of a projectile.
(b) The pattern or arrangement of a series of hits made by a marksman
on a butt or mark; as, he made a good target.

3. (Surveying)

Defn: The sliding crosspiece, or vane, on a leveling staff.

4. (Railroad)

Defn: A conspicuous disk attached to a switch lever to show its
position, or for use as a signal.

TARGETED
Tar"get*ed, a.

Defn: Furnished, armed, or protected, with a target.

TARGETEER
Tar`get*eer", n.

Defn: One who is armed with a target or shield. [Written also
targetier.]

TARGUM
Tar"gum, n.; pl. Targums. Heb. Targumim. Etym: [Chald. targum
interpretation, fr. targem to interpret. Cf. Truchman, and Dragoman.]

Defn: A translation or paraphrase of some portion of the Old
Testament Scriptures in the Chaldee or Aramaic language or dialect.

TARGUMIST
Tar"gum*ist, n.

Defn: The writer of a Targum; one versed in the Targums.

TARIFF
Tar"iff, n. Etym: [F. tarif; cf. Sp. & Pg. tarifa, It. tariffa; all
fr. Ar. ta'rif information, explanation, definition, from 'arafa, to
know, to inform, explain.]

1. A schedule, system, or scheme of duties imposed by the government
of a country upon goods imported or exported; as, a revenue tariff; a
protective tariff; Clay's compromise tariff. (U.S. 1833).

Note: The United States and Great Britain impose no duties on
exports; hence, in these countries the tariff refers only to imports.

2. The duty, or rate of duty, so imposed; as, the tariff on wool; a
tariff of two cents a pound.

3. Any schedule or system of rates, changes, etc.; as, a tariff of
fees, or of railroad fares. Bolingbroke.

TARIFF
Tar"iff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tariffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tariffing.]

Defn: To make a list of duties on, as goods.

TARIN
Tar"in, n. Etym: [F.] (Zool.)

Defn: The siskin. [Prov.]

TARING
Tar"ing, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The common tern; -- called also tarret, and tarrock. [Prov.
Eng.]

TARLATAN
Tar"la*tan, n.

Defn: A kind of thin, transparent muslin, used for dresses.

TARN
Tarn, n. Etym: [OE. terne, Icel. tjorn.]

Defn: A mountain lake or pool.
A lofty precipice in front, A silent tarn below. Wordsworth.

TARNISH
Tar"nish, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tarnished; p. pr. & vb. n. Tarnishing.]
Etym: [F. ternir, fr. OHG. tarnen to darken, to conceal, hide; akin
to OS. dernian to hide, AS. dernan, dyrnan, OHG. tarni hidden, OS.
derni, AS. derne, dyrne. Cf. Dern, a., and see -ish.]

Defn: To soil, or change the appearance of, especially by an
alternation induced by the air, or by dust, or the like; to diminish,
dull, or destroy the luster of; to sully; as, to tarnish a metal; to
tarnish gilding; to tarnish the purity of color. "Tarnished lace."
Fuller. Used also figuratively; as, to tarnish one's honor.

Syn.
 -- To sully; stain; dim.

TARNISH
Tar"nish, v. i.

Defn: To lose luster; to become dull; as, gilding will tarnish in a
foul air.
Till thy fresh glories, which now shine so bright, Grow stale and
tarnish with our daily sight. Dryden.

TARNISH
Tar"nish, n.

1. The quality or state of being tarnished; stain; soil; blemish.

2. (Min.)

Defn: A thin film on the surface of a metal, usually due to a slight
alteration of the original color; as, the steel tarnish in columbite.

TARNISHER
Tar"nish*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, tarnishes.

TARO
Ta"ro, n. Etym: [From the Polynesian name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name for several aroid plants (Colocasia antiquorum, var.
esculenta, Colocasia macrorhiza, etc.), and their rootstocks. They
have large ovate-sagittate leaves and large fleshy rootstocks, which
are cooked and used for food in tropical countries.

TAROT
Tar"ot, n. Etym: [F.; cf. It. tarocco.]

Defn: A game of cards; -- called also taroc. Hoyle.

TARPAN
Tar"pan, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zool.)

Defn: A wild horse found in the region of the Caspian Sea.

TARPAULIN
Tar*pau"lin, n. Etym: [Tar + palling a covering, pall to cover. See
Pall a covering.]

1. A piece of canvas covered with tar or a waterproof composition,
used for covering the hatches of a ship, hammocks, boats, etc.

2. A hat made of, or covered with, painted or tarred cloth, worn by
sailors and others.

3. Hence, a sailor; a seaman; a tar.
To a landsman, these tarpaulins, as they were called, seemed a
strange and half-savage race. Macaulay.

TARPEIAN
Tar*pe"ian, a. [L. Tarpeius, prop., pertaining to Tarpeia.]

Defn: Pertaining to or designating a rock or peak of the Capitoline
hill, Rome, from which condemned criminals were hurled.

TARPON
Tar"pon, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Tarpum.

TARPUM
Tar"pum, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A very large marine fish (Megapolis Atlanticus) of the Southern
United States and the West Indies. It often becomes six or more feet
in length, and has large silvery scales. The scales are a staple
article of trade, and are used in fancywork. Called also tarpon,
sabalo, savanilla, silverfish, and jewfish.

TARQUINISH
Tar"quin*ish, a.

Defn: Like a Tarquin, a king of ancient Rome; proud; haughty;
overbearing.

TARRACE
Tar"race, n.

Defn: See Trass. [Obs.]

TARRAGON
Tar"ra*gon, n. Etym: [Sp. taragona, Ar. tarkh; perhaps fr. Gr. draco;
cf. L. dracunculus tarragon. Cf. Dragon.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Artemisa (A. dracunculus), much used in
France for flavoring vinegar.

TARRAS
Tar"ras, n.

Defn: See Trass. [Obs.]

TARRE
Tarre, v. t. Etym: [OE. tarien, terien, to irritate, provoke, AS.
tergan to pull, pluck, torment; probably akin to E. tear, v.t. *63.
Cf. Tarry, v.]

Defn: To set on, as a dog; to incite. [Obs.] Shak.

TARRIANCE
Tar"ri*ance, n.

Defn: The act or time of tarrying; delay; lateness. [Archaic] Shak.
And after two days' tarriance there, returned. Tennyson.

TARRIER
Tar"ri*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, tarries.

TARRIER
Tar"ri*er, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A kind of dig; a terrier. [Obs.]

TARROCK
Tar"rock, n. Etym: [Greenland tattarock.] (Zool.)
(a) The young of the kittiwake gull before the first molt.
(b) The common guillemot. [Prov. Eng.]
(c) The common tern.

TARRY
Tar"ry, a. Etym: [From Tar, n.]

Defn: Consisting of, or covered with, tar; like tar.

TARRY
Tar"ry, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tarried; p. pr. & vb. n. Tarrying.] Etym:
[OE. tarien to irritate (see Tarre); but with a change of sense
probably due to confusion with OE. targen to delay, OF. targier, fr.
(assumed) LL. tardicare, fr. L. tardare to make slow, to tarry, fr.
tardus slow. Cf. Tardy.]

1. To stay or remain behind; to wait.
Tarry ye for us, until we come again. Ex. xxiv. 14.

2. To delay; to put off going or coming; to loiter.
Come down unto me, tarry not. Gen. xic. 9.
One tarried here, there hurried one. Emerson.

3. To stay; to abide; to continue; to lodge.
Tarry all night, and wash your feet. Gen. xix. 2.

Syn.
 -- To abide; continue; lodge; await; loiter.

TARRY
Tar"ry, v. t.

1. To delay; to defer; to put off. [Obs.]
Tarry us here no longer than to-morrow. Chaucer.

2. To wait for; to stay or stop for. [Archaic]
He that will have a cake out of the wheat must needs tarry the
grinding. Shak.
He plodded on, . . . tarrying no further question. Sir W. Scott.

TARRY
Tar"ry, n.

Defn: Stay; stop; delay. [Obs.] E. Lodge.

TARSAL
Tar"sal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the tarsus (either of the foot or eye).
 -- n.

Defn: A tarsal bone or cartilage; a tarsale. Tarsal tetter (Med.), an
eruptive disease of the edges of the eyelids; a kind of bleareye.

TARSAL
Tar"sal, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Tercel. [Obs.]

TARSALE
Tar*sa"le, n.; pl. Tarsalia. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: One of the bones or cartilages of the tarsus; esp., one of the
series articulating with the metatarsals.

TARSE
Tarse, n. Etym: [Cf. Tassel, Tiercel.] (Falconry)

Defn: The male falcon.

TARSE
Tarse, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tarse.] (Anat.)

Defn: tarsus.

TARSECTOMY
Tar*sec"to*my, n. Etym: [Tarsus + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of excising one or more of the bones of the
tarsus.

TARSEL
Tar"sel, n.

Defn: A male hawk. See Tercel. [Obs.]

TARSI
Tar"si, n.,

Defn: pl. of Tarsus.

TARSIA; TARSIATURA
Tar"si*a, Tar`si*a*tu"ra, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A kind of mosaic in woodwork, much employed in Italy in the
fifteenth century and later, in which scrolls and arabesques, and
sometimes architectural scenes, landscapes, fruits, flowers, and the
like, were produced by inlaying pieces of wood of different colors
and shades into panels usually of walnut wood.

TARSIER
Tar"si*er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tarsier.]

Defn: See Tarsius.

TARSIUS
Tar"si*us, n. Etym: [NL. See Tarsus.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of nocturnal lemurine mammals having very large eyes
and ears, a long tail, and very long proximal tarsal bones; -- called
also malmag, spectral lemur, podji, and tarsier.

TARSO-
Tar"so-.

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,
or relation to, the tarsus; as, tarsometatarsus.

TARSOMETATARSAL
Tar`so*met`a*tar"sal, a. (Anat.)
(a) Of or pertaining to both the tarsus and metatarsus; as, the
tarsometatarsal articulations.
(b) Of or pertaining to the tarsometatarsus.

TARSOMETATARSUS
Tar`so*met`a*tar"sus, n.; pl. Tarsometatarsi. Etym: [NL.] (Anat.)

Defn: The large bone next the foot in the leg of a bird. It is formed
by the union of the distal part of the tarsus with the metatarsus.

TARSORRHAPHY
Tar*sor"rha*phy, n. Etym: [Tarsus + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: An operation to diminish the size of the opening between
eyelids when enlarged by surrounding cicatrices.

TARSOTOMY
Tar*sot"o*my, n. Etym: [Tarsus + Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: The operation of cutting or removing the tarsal cartilages.

TARSUS
Tar"sus, n.; pl. Tarsi. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Tarse.]

1. (Anat.)
(a) The ankle; the bones or cartilages of the part of the foot
between the metatarsus and the leg, consisting in man of seven short
bones.
(b) A plate of dense connective tissue or cartilage in the eyelid of
man and many animals; -- called also tarsal cartilage, and tarsal
plate.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The foot of an insect or a crustacean. It usually consists of
form two to five joints.

TART
Tart, a. Etym: [AS. teart. *63. Cf. Tear, v. t.]

1. Sharp to the taste; acid; sour; as, a tart apple.

2. Fig.: Sharp; keen; severe; as, a tart reply; tart language; a tart
rebuke.
Why art thou tart, my brother Bunyan.

TART
Tart, n. Etym: [OE. tarte, F. tarte; perhaps originally the same word
as tourte, LL. torta, fr. L. tortus, p.p. of torquere to twist, bend,
wind, because tarts were originally made of a twisted shape. Cf.
Torture, n.]

Defn: A species of small open pie, or piece of pastry, containing
jelly or conserve; a sort of fruit pie.

TARTAN
Tar"tan, n. Etym: [F. tiretane linsey-woolsey, akin to Sp. tiritana a
sort of thin silk; cf. Sp. tiritar to shiver or shake with cold.]

Defn: Woolen cloth, checkered or crossbarred with narrow bands of
various colors, much worn in the Highlands of Scotland; hence, any
pattern of tartan; also, other material of a similar pattern.
MacCullummore's heart will be as cold as death can make it, when it
does not warm to the tartan. Sir W. Scott.
The sight of the tartan inflamed the populace of London with hatred.
Macaulay.

TARTAN
Tar"tan, n. Etym: [F. tartane, or Sp., Pg., or It. tartana; all
perhaps of Arabic origin.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small coasting vessel, used in the Mediterranean, having one
mast carrying large leteen sail, and a bowsprit with staysail or jib.

TARTAR
Tar"tar, n. Etym: [F. tartre (cf. Pr. tartari, Sp., Pg., & It.
tartaro, LL. tartarum, LGr.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A reddish crust or sediment in wine casks, consisting
essentially of crude cream of tartar, and used in marking pure cream
of tartar, tartaric acid, potassium carbonate, black flux, etc., and,
in dyeing, as a mordant for woolen goods; -- called also argol, wine
stone, etc.

2. A correction which often incrusts the teeth, consisting of
salivary mucus, animal matter, and phosphate of lime. Cream of
tartar. (Chem.) See under Cream.
 -- Tartar emetic (Med. Chem.), a double tartrate of potassium and
basic antimony. It is a poisonous white crystalline substance having
a sweetish metallic taste, and used in medicine as a sudorific and
emetic.

TARTAR
Tar"tar, n.

1. Etym: [Per. Tatar, of Tartar origin.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Tartary in Asia; a member of any one
of numerous tribes, chiefly Moslem, of Turkish origin, inhabiting the
Russian Europe; -- written also, more correctly but less usually,
Tatar.

2. A person of a keen, irritable temper. To catch a tartar, to lay
hold of, or encounter, a person who proves too strong for the
assailant. [Colloq.]

TARTAR
Tar"tar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars.

TARTAR
Tar"tar, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tartare.]

Defn: See Tartarus. Shak.

TARTARATED
Tar"tar*a`ted, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Tartrated.

TARTAREAN; TARTAREOUS
Tar*ta"re*an, Tar*ta"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. tartareus: cf. F.
tartareen.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tartarus; hellish.

TARTAREOUS
Tar*ta"re*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. 1st Tartarous.]

1. Consisting of tartar; of the nature of tartar.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the surface rough and crumbling; as, many lichens are
tartareous.

TARTARIAN; TARTARIC
Tar*ta"ri*an, Tar*tar"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tartary in Asia, or the Tartars. Tartarian
lamb (Bot.), Scythian lamb. See Barometz.

TARTARIAN
Tar*ta"ri*an, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The name of some kinds of cherries, as the Black Tartarian, or
the White Tartarian.

TARTARIC
Tar*tar"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tartar; derived from, or resembling,
tartar. Tartaric acid. (a) An acid widely diffused throughout the
vegetable kingdom, as in grapes, mountain-ash berries, etc., and
obtained from tartar as a white crystalline substance,
C2H2(OH)2.(CO2H)2, having a strong pure acid taste. It is used in
medicine, in dyeing, calico printing, photography, etc., and also as
a substitute for lemon juice. Called also dextro-tartaric acid. (b)
By extension, any one of the series of isomeric acids (racemic acid,
levotartaric acid, inactive tartaric acid) of which tartaric acid
proper is the type.

TARTARINE
Tar"tar*ine, n. (Old Chem.)

Defn: Potassium carbonate, obtained by the incineration of tartar.
[Obs.]

TARTARIZE
Tar"tar*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tartarized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tartarizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. tartariser.] (Chem.)

Defn: To impregnate with, or subject to the action of, tartar. [R.]
Tartarized antimony (Med. Chem.), tartar emetic.

TARTARIZE
Tar"tar*ize, v. t.

Defn: To cause to resemble the Tartars and their civilization, as by
conquest.

TARTAROUS
Tar"tar*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tartareux.]

Defn: Containing tartar; consisting of tartar, or partaking of its
qualities; tartareous.

TARTAROUS
Tar"tar*ous, a.

Defn: Resembling, or characteristic of, a Tartar; ill-natured;
irritable.
The Tartarous moods of common men. B. Jonson.

TARTARUM
Tar"ta*rum, n. (Chem.)

Defn: See 1st Tartar.

TARTARUS
Tar"ta*rus, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: The infernal regions, described in the Iliad as situated as far
below Hades as heaven is above the earth, and by later writers as the
place of punishment for the spirits of the wicked. By the later
poets, also, the name is often used synonymously with Hades, or the
Lower World in general.

TARTARY
Tar"ta*ry, n.

Defn: Tartarus. [Obs.] Spenser.

TARTINI'S TONES
Tar*ti"ni's tones`. Etym: [From Tartini, an Italian violinist, who
discovered them in 1754.]

Defn: See the Note under Tone.

TARTISH
Tart"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat tart.

TARTLET
Tart"let, n.

Defn: A small tart. V. Knox.

TARTLY
Tart"ly, adv.

Defn: In a tart manner; with acidity.

TARTNESS
Tart"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tart.

Syn.
 -- Acrimony; sourness; keenness; poignancy; severity; asperity;
acerbity; harshness. See Acrimony.

TARTRALIC
Tar*tral"ic, a. Etym: [From Tartar the chemical compound.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained as a white
amorphous deliquescent substance, C8H10O11; -- called also
ditartaric, tartrilic, or tartrylic acid.

TARTRAMATE
Tar*tram"ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tartramic acid.

TARTRAMIC
Tar*tram"ic, a. Etym: [Tarto- + amic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid which is the primary
acid amide derivative of tartaric acid.

TARTRAMIDE
Tar*tram"ide, n. Etym: [Tarto- + amide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An acid amide derivative of tartaric acid, obtained as a white
crystalline substance.

TARTRATE
Tar"trate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tartrate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tartaric acid.

TARTRATED
Tar"tra`ted, a. (Med. Chem.)

Defn: Containing, or derived from, tartar; combined with tartaric
acid.

TARTRAZINE
Tar"tra*zine, n. Etym: [Tartaric + hydrazine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An artificial dyestuff obtained as an orange-yellow powder, and
regarded as a phenyl hydrazine derivative of tartaric and sulphonic
acids.

TARTRELIC
Tar*trel"ic, a. Etym: [From Tartar the chemical compound.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an anhydride, C4H4O5, of
tartaric acid, obtained as a white crystalline deliquescent
substance.

TARTRO-
Tar"tro-.

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) used in chemistry to
denote the presence of tartar or of some of its compounds or
derivatives.

TARTRONATE
Tar"tro*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tartronic acid.

TARTRONIC
Tar*tron"ic, a. Etym: [Tartro- + malonic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an organic acid (called also
hydroxy malonic acid) obtained, by reducing mesoxalic acid, as a
white crystalline substance.

TARTRONYL
Tar"tro*nyl, n. Etym: [Tartronic + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical constituting the characteristic residue
of tartronic acid and certain of its derivatives.

TARTROVINIC
Tar`tro*vin"ic, a. Etym: [Tartro- + vinic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, a certain acid composed of
tartaric acid in combination with ethyl, and now called ethyltartaric
acid.

TARTUFFE; TARTUFE
Tar*tuffe", Tar*tufe", n. Etym: [F. tartufe.]

Defn: A hypocritical devotee. See the Dictionary of Noted Names in
Fiction.

TARTUFFISH; TARTUFISH
Tar*tuff"ish, Tar*tuf"ish, a.

Defn: Like a tartuffe; precise; hypocritical. Sterne.

TARWEED
Tar"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several resinous-glandular composite plants of
California, esp. to the species of Grindelia, Hemizonia, and Madia.

TAS
Tas, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A heap. [Obs.] "The tas of bodies slain." Chaucer.

TAS
Tas, v. t.

Defn: To tassel. [Obs.] "A purse of leather tassed with silk."
Chaucer.

TASCO
Tas"co, n. Etym: [Cf. Sp. tasconio.]

Defn: A kind of clay for making melting pots. Percy Smith.

TASIMER
Ta*sim"er, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for detecting or measuring minute extension or
movements of solid bodies. It consists essentially of a small rod,
disk, or button of carbon, forming part of an electrical circuit, the
resistance of which, being varied by the changes of pressure produced
by the movements of the object to be measured, causes variations in
the strength of the current, which variations are indicated by a
sensitive galvanometer. It is also used for measuring minute changes
of temperature. T. A. Edison.

TASK
Task, n. Etym: [OE. taske, OF. tasque, F. tache, for tasche, LL.
tasca, taxa, fr. L. taxare to rate, appraise, estimate. See Tax, n. &
v.]

1. Labor or study imposed by another, often in a definite quantity or
amount.
Ma task of servile toil. Milton.
Each morning sees some task begin, Each evening sees it close.
Longfellow.

2. Business; employment; undertaking; labor.
His mental powers were equal to greater tasks. Atterbury.
To take to task. See under Take.

Syn.
 -- Work; labor; employment; business; toil; drudgery; study; lesson;
stint.

TASK
Task, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tasked; p. pr. & vb. n. Tasking.]

1. To impose a task upon; to assign a definite amount of business,
labor, or duty to.
There task thy maids, and exercise the loom. Dryden.

2. To oppress with severe or excessive burdens; to tax.

3. To charge; to tax; as with a fault.
Too impudent to task me with those errors. Beau. & Fl.

TASKER
Task"er, n.

1. One who imposes a task.

2. One who performs a task, as a day-laborer. [R.]

3. A laborer who receives his wages in kind. [Scot.]

TASKMASTER
Task"mas`ter, n.

Defn: One who imposes a task, or burdens another with labor; one
whose duty is to assign tasks; an overseer. Ex. i. 11.
All is, if I have grace to use it so, As ever in my great
Taskmaster's eye. Milton.

TASK WAGE
Task wage. (Polit. Econ.)

Defn: A wage paid by the day, or some fixed period, on condition that
a minimum task be performed. When the workman is paid in proportion
for excess over the minimum, the wage is one for piece-work.

TASKWORK
Task"work`, n.

Defn: Work done as a task; also, work done by the job; piecework.

TASLET
Tas"let, n. Etym: [See Tasse a piece of armor.]

Defn: A piece of armor formerly worn to guard the things; a tasse.

TASMANIAN
Tas*ma"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Tasmania, or Van Diemen's Land.
 -- n. A native or inhabitant of Tasmania; specifically (Ethnol.), in
the plural, the race of men that formerly inhabited Tasmania, but is
now extinct. Tasmanain cider tree. (Bot.) See the Note under
Eucalyptus.
 -- Tasmanain devil. (Zool.) See under Devil.
 -- Tasmanain wolf (Zool.), a savage carnivorous marsupial; -- called
also zebra wolf. See Zebra wolf, under Wolf.

TASSE
Tasse, n. Etym: [OF. tassette.]

Defn: A piece of armor for the thighs, forming an appendage to the
ancient corselet.

Note: Usually the tasse was a plate of iron swinging from the
cuirass, but the skirts of sliding splints were also called by this
name.

TASSEL
Tas"sel, n. (Falconry)

Defn: A male hawk. See Tercel.

TASSEL
Tas"sel, n. Etym: [See Teasel.]

Defn: A kind of bur used in dressing cloth; a teasel.

TASSEL
Tas"sel, n. Etym: [OE., a fastening of a mantle, OF. tassel a
fastening, clasp, F. tasseau a bracket, Fr. L. taxillus a little die,
dim. of talus a die of a longish shape, rounded on two sides and
marked only on the other four, a knuckle bone.]

1. A pendent ornament, attached to the corners of cushions, to
curtains, and the like, ending in a tuft of loose threads or cords.

2. The flower or head of some plants, esp. when pendent.
And the maize field grew and ripened, Till it stood in all the
splendor Of its garments green and yellow, Of its tassels and its
plumage. Longfellow.

3. A narrow silk ribbon, or the like, sewed to a book to be put
between the leaves.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: A piece of board that is laid upon a wall as a sort of plate,
to give a level surface to the ends of floor timbers; -- rarely used
in the United States. Tassel flower (Bot.), a name of several
composite plants of the genus Cineraria, especially the C.
sconchifolia, and of the blossoms which they bear.

TASSEL
Tas"sel, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tasseled or Tasselled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tasseling or Tasselling.]

Defn: To put forth a tassel or flower; as, maize tassels.

TASSEL
Tas"sel, v. t.

Defn: To adorn with tassels. Chaucer.

TASSET
Tas"set, n. Etym: [See Tasse.]

Defn: A defense for the front of the thigh, consisting of one or more
iron plates hanging from the belt on the lower edge of the corselet.

TASTABLE
Tast"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of worthy of being tasted; savory; relishing.

TASTE
Taste, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tasted; p. pr. & vb. n. Tasting.] Etym:
[OE. tasten to feel, to taste, OF. taster, F. tater to feel, to try
by the touch, to try, to taste, (assumed) LL. taxitare, fr. L. taxare
to touch sharply, to estimate. See Tax, v. t.]

1. To try by the touch; to handle; as, to taste a bow. [Obs.]
Chapman.
Taste it well and stone thou shalt it find. Chaucer.

2. To try by the touch of the tongue; to perceive the relish or
flavor of (anything) by taking a small quantity into a mouth. Also
used figuratively.
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine.
John ii. 9.
When Commodus had once tasted human blood, he became incapable of
pity or remorse. Gibbon.

3. To try by eating a little; to eat a small quantity of.
I tasted a little of this honey. 1 Sam. xiv. 29.

4. To become acquainted with by actual trial; to essay; to
experience; to undergo.
He . . . should taste death for every man. Heb. ii. 9.

5. To partake of; to participate in; -- usually with an implied sense
of relish or pleasure.
Thou . . . wilt taste No pleasure, though in pleasure, solitary.
Milton.

TASTE
Taste, v. i.

1. To try food with the mouth; to eat or drink a little only; to try
the flavor of anything; as, to taste of each kind of wine.

2. To have a smack; to excite a particular sensation, by which the
specific quality or flavor is distinguished; to have a particular
quality or character; as, this water tastes brackish; the milk tastes
of garlic.
Yea, every idle, nice, and wanton reason Shall to the king taste of
this action. Shak.

3. To take sparingly.
For age but tastes of pleasures, youth devours. Dryden.

4. To have perception, experience, or enjoyment; to partake; as, to
taste of nature's bounty. Waller.
The valiant never taste of death but once. Shak.

TASTE
Taste, n.

1. The act of tasting; gustation.

2. A particular sensation excited by the application of a substance
to the tongue; the quality or savor of any substance as perceived by
means of the tongue; flavor; as, the taste of an orange or an apple;
a bitter taste; an acid taste; a sweet taste.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: The one of the five senses by which certain properties of
bodies (called their taste, savor, flavor) are ascertained by contact
with the organs of taste.

Note: Taste depends mainly on the contact of soluble matter with the
terminal organs (connected with branches of the glossopharyngeal and
other nerves) in the papill? on the surface of the tongue. The base
of the tongue is considered most sensitive to bitter substances, the
point to sweet and acid substances.

4. Intellectual relish; liking; fondness; -- formerly with of, now
with for; as, he had no taste for study.
I have no taste Of popular applause. Dryden.

5. The power of perceiving and relishing excellence in human
performances; the faculty of discerning beauty, order, congruity,
proportion, symmetry, or whatever constitutes excellence,
particularly in the fine arts and belles-letters; critical judgment;
discernment.

6. Manner, with respect to what is pleasing, refined, or in
accordance with good usage; style; as, music composed in good taste;
an epitaph in bad taste.

7. Essay; trial; experience; experiment. Shak.

8. A small portion given as a specimen; a little piece tastted of
eaten; a bit. Bacon.

9. A kind of narrow and thin silk ribbon.

Syn.
 -- Savor; relish; flavor; sensibility; gout.
 -- Taste, Sensibility, Judgment. Some consider taste as a mere
sensibility, and others as a simple exercise of judgment; but a union
of both is requisite to the existence of anything which deserves the
name. An original sense of the beautiful is just as necessary to
?sthetic judgments, as a sense of right and wrong to the formation of
any just conclusions or moral subjects. But this "sense of the
beautiful" is not an arbitrary principle. It is under the guidance of
reason; it grows in delicacy and correctness with the progress of the
individual and of society at large; it has its laws, which are seated
in the nature of man; and it is in the development of these laws that
we find the true "standard of taste."
What, then, is taste, but those internal powers, Active and strong,
and feelingly alive To each fine impulse a discerning sense Of decent
and sublime, with quick disgust From things deformed, or disarranged,
or gross In species This, nor gems, nor stores of gold, Nor purple
state, nor culture, can bestow, But God alone, when first his active
hand Imprints the secret bias of the soul. Akenside.
Taste of buds, or Taste of goblets (Anat.), the flask-shaped end
organs of taste in the epithelium of the tongue. They are made up of
modified epithelial cells arranged somewhat like leaves in a bud.

TASTEFUL
Taste"ful, a.

1. Having a high relish; savory. "Tasteful herbs." Pope.

2. Having or exhibiting good taste; in accordance with good taste;
tasty; as, a tasteful drapery.
 -- Taste"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Taste"ful*ness, n.

TASTELESS
Taste"less, a.

1. Having no taste; insipid; flat; as, tasteless fruit.

2. Destitute of the sense of taste; or of good taste; as, a tasteless
age. Orrery.

3. Not in accordance with good taste; as, a tasteless arrangement of
drapery.
 -- Taste"less*ly, adv.
 -- Taste"less*ness, n.

TASTER
Tast"er, n.

1. One who tastes; especially, one who first tastes food or drink to
ascertain its quality.
Thy tutor be thy taster, ere thou eat. Dryden.

2. That in which, or by which, anything is tasted, as, a dram cup, a
cheese taster, or the like.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: One of a peculiar kind of zooids situated on the polyp-stem of
certain Siphonophora. They somewhat resemble the feeding zooids, but
are destitute of mouths. See Siphonophora.

TASTILY
Tast"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tasty manner.

TASTING
Tast"ing, n.

Defn: The act of perceiving or tasting by the organs of taste; the
faculty or sense by which we perceive or distinguish savors.

TASTO
Tas"to, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A key or thing touched to produce a tone. Tasto solo, single
touch; -- in old music, a direction denoting that the notes in the
bass over or under which it is written should be performed alone, or
with no other chords than unisons and octaves.

TASTY
Tast"y, a. [Compar. Tastier; superl. Tastiest.]

1. Having a good taste; -- applied to persons; as, a tasty woman. See
Taste, n., 5.

2. Being in conformity to the principles of good taste; elegant; as,
tasty furniture; a tasty dress.

TAT
Tat, n. Etym: [Hind. tat.]

Defn: Gunny cloth made from the fiber of the Corchorus olitorius, or
jute. [India]

TAT
Tat, n. Etym: [Hind. tatt.] (Zool.)

Defn: A pony. [India]

TATAUPA
Ta*tau"pa, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zool.)

Defn: A South American tinamou (Crypturus tataupa).

TATCH
Tatch, n. Etym: [F. tache spot. See Techy.]

Defn: A spot or stain; also, a trick. [Obs.] Sir T. Elyot.

TATH
Tath, obs.

Defn: 3d pers. sing. pres. of Ta, to take.

TATH
Tath, n. Etym: [Prov. E.; of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. ta dung, ta the
grass of a manured pasture, te to manure. *58. Cf. Ted.]

1. Dung, or droppings of cattle. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

2. The luxuriant grass growing about the droppings of cattle in a
pasture. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

TATH
Tath, v. t.

Defn: To manure (land) by pasturing cattle on it, or causing them to
lie upon it. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

TATOU
Ta*tou", n. Etym: [Cf. Tatouay.] (Zool.)

Defn: The giant armadillo (Priodontes gigas) of tropical South
America. It becomes nearly five feet long including the tail. It is
noted for its burrowing powers, feeds largely upon dead animals, and
sometimes invades human graves.

TATOUAY
Tat"ou*ay, n. Etym: [Of Brazilian origin; cf. Pg. tatu, F. tatou.]
(Zool.)

Defn: An armadillo (Xenurus unicinctus), native of the tropical parts
of South America. It has about thirteen movable bands composed of
small, nearly square, scales. The head is long; the tail is round and
tapered, and nearly destitute of scales; the claws of the fore feet
are very large. Called also tatouary, and broad-banded armadillo.

TATOUHOU
Tat"ou*hou, n. Etym: [Cf. Tatouay.] (Zool.)

Defn: The peba.

TATT
Tatt, v. t. & i.

Defn: To make (anything) by tatting; to work at tatting; as, tatted
edging.

TATTA
Tat"ta, n. Etym: [Hind. , tati.]

Defn: A bamboo frame or trellis hung at a door or window of a house,
over which water is suffered to trickle, in order to moisten and cool
the air as it enters. [India]

TATTER
Tat"ter, n.

Defn: One who makes tatting. Caulfield & S. (Doct. of Needlework).

TATTER
Tat"ter, n. Etym: [Icel. totur, tottur, pl. totrar, ; cf. Norw.
totra, pl. totror, LG. taltern tatters. *240.]

Defn: A rag, or a part torn and hanging; -- chiefly used in the
plural.
Tear a passion to tatters, to very rags. Shak.

TATTER
Tat"ter, v. t. [p. p. Tattered.]

Defn: To rend or tear into rags; -- used chiefly in the past
participle as an adjective.
Where waved the tattered ensigns of Ragfair. Pope.

TATTERDEMALION
Tat`ter*de*mal"ion, n. Etym: [Tatter + OF. desmaillier to break the
meshes of, to tear: cf. OF. maillon long clothes, swadding clothes,
F. maillot. See Tatter, and Mail armor.]

Defn: A ragged fellow; a ragamuffin. L'Estrange.

TATTERSALL'S
Tat"ter*sall's, n.

Defn: A famous horse market in London, established in 1766 by Richard
Tattersall, also used as the headquarters of credit betting on
English horse races; hence, a large horse market elsewhere.

TATTING
Tat"ting, n.

Defn: A kind of lace made from common sewing thread, with a peculiar
stitch. Tatting shuttle, the shuttle on which the thread used in
tatting is wound.

TATTLE
Tat"tle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tattled; p. pr. & vb. n. Tattling.]
Etym: [Akin to OE. tateren, LG. tateln, D. tateren to stammer, and
perhaps to E. titter.]

1. To prate; to talk idly; to use many words with little meaning; to
chat.
The tattling quality of age, which is always narrative. Dryden.

2. To tell tales; to communicate secrets; to be a talebearer; as, a
tattling girl.

TATTLE
Tat"tle, n.

Defn: Idle talk or chat; trifling talk; prate.
[They] told the tattle of the day. Swift.

TATTLER
Tat"tler, n.

1. One who tattles; an idle talker; one who tells tales. Jer. Taylor.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large, long-legged sandpipers
belonging to the genus Totanus.

Note: The common American species are the greater tattler, or
telltale (T. melanoleucus), the smaller tattler, or lesser yellowlegs
(T. flavipes), the solitary tattler (T. solitarius), and the
semipalmated tattler, or willet. The first two are called also
telltale, telltale spine, telltale tattler, yellowlegs, yellowshanks,
and yelper.

TATTLERY
Tat"tler*y, n.

Defn: Idle talk or chat; tittle-tattle.

TATTLING
Tat"tling, a.

Defn: Given to idle talk; apt to tell tales.
 -- Tat"tling*ly, adv.

TATTOO
Tat*too", n. Etym: [Earlier taptoo, D. taptoe; tap a tap, faucet +
toe to, shut (i. e., the taps, or drinking houses, shut from the
soldiers).] (Mil.)

Defn: A beat of drum, or sound of a trumpet or bugle, at night,
giving notice to soldiers to retreat, or to repair to their quarters
in garrison, or to their tents in camp. The Devil's tattoo. See under
Devil.

TATTOO
Tat*too", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tattooed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tattooing.]
Etym: [Of Polynesian origin; cf. New Zealand ta to tattoo, tatu
puncturation (in Otaheite).]

Defn: To color, as the flesh, by pricking in coloring matter, so as
to form marks or figures which can not be washed out.

TATTOO
Tat*too", n.; pl. Tattoos (.

Defn: An indelible mark or figure made by puncturing the skin and
introducing some pigment into the punctures; -- a mode of
ornamentation practiced by various barbarous races, both in ancient
and modern times, and also by some among civilized nations,
especially by sailors.

TATTY
Tat"ty, n.; pl. Tatties (#). [Hind. tsatstsi.]

Defn: A mat or screen of fibers, as of the kuskus grass, hung at a
door or window and kept wet to moisten and cool the air as it enters.
[India]

TATU
Ta*tu", n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Tatou.

TATUSIID
Ta*tu"si*id, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any armadillo of the family Tatusiid?, of which the peba and
mule armadillo are examples. Also used adjectively.

TAU
Tau, n. Etym: [Gr. tay^ the letter t (English T).] (Zool.)

Defn: The common American toadfish; -- so called from a marking
resembling the Greek letter tau (t). Tau cross. See Illust. 6, of
Cross.

TAUGHT
Taught, a.

Defn: See Taut. Totten.

TAUGHT
Taught,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Teach. Etym: [AS. imp. t?hte, p.p. get?ht.]

Note: See Teach.

TAUNT
Taunt, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. tant so great, F. tant so much, L. tantus of
such size, so great, so much.] (Naut.)

Defn: Very high or tall; as, a ship with taunt masts. Totten.

TAUNT
Taunt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Taunted; p. pr. & vb. n. Taunting.] Etym:
[Earlier, to tease; probably fr. OF. tanter to tempt, to try, for
tenter. See Tempt.]

Defn: To reproach with severe or insulting words; to revile; to
upbraid; to jeer at; to flout.
When I had at my pleasure taunted her. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To deride; ridicule; mock; jeer; flout; revile. See Deride.

TAUNT
Taunt, n.

Defn: Upbraiding language; bitter or sarcastic reproach; insulting
invective.
With scoffs, and scorns, and contemelious taunts. Shak.
With sacrilegious taunt and impious jest. Prior.

TAUNTER
Taunt"er, n.

Defn: One who taunts.

TAUNTING
Taunt"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Taunt, v.
Every kind of insolent and taunting reflection. Burke.

TAUNTINGLY
Taunt"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a taunting manner.

TAUNTRESS
Taunt"ress, n.

Defn: A woman who taunts.

TAUPIE; TAWPIE
Tau"pie, Taw"pie, n. [Cf. Icel. topi fool, Dan. taabe, Sw. tap.]

Defn: A foolish or thoughtless young person, esp. a slothful or
slovenly woman. [Scot.]  Burns.

TAUR
Taur, n. Etym: [L. Taurus.]

Defn: The constellation Taurus. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TAURICORNOUS
Tau`ri*cor"nous, a. Etym: [L. tauricornis; taurus a bull + cornu a
horn.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having horns like those of a bull. Sir T. Browne.

TAURID
Tau"rid, n.  [Taurus + 1st -id.] (Astron.)

Defn: Any of a group of meteors appearing November 20-23; -- so
called because they appear to radiate from a point in Taurus.

TAURIDOR
Tau`ri*dor", n. Etym: [See Toreador.]

Defn: A bull Sir W. Scott.

TAURIFORM
Tau"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. tauriformis; taurus a bull + -form: cf. F.
tauriforme.]

Defn: Having the form of a bull.

TAURINE
Tau"rine, a. Etym: [L. taurinus, fr. taurus a bull. See Taurus.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the genus Taurus, or cattle.

TAURINE
Tau"rine, n. Etym: [So named because it was discovered in the bile of
the ox. See Taurus.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A body occurring in small quantity in the juices of muscle, in
the lungs, and elsewhere, but especially in the bile, where it is
found as a component part of taurocholic acid, from which it can be
prepared by decomposition of the acid. It crystallizes in colorless,
regular six-sided prisms, and is especially characterized by
containing both nitrogen and sulphur, being chemically amido-
isethionic acid, C

TAUROCHOLATE
Tau`ro*cho"late, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A salt of taurocholic acid; as, sodium taurocholate, which
occurs in human bile.

TAUROCHOLIC
Tau`ro*chol"ic, a. Etym: [Taurine + cholic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a conjugate acid (called
taurocholic acid) composed of taurine and cholic acid, present
abundantly in human bile and in that of carnivora. It is exceedingly
deliquescent, and hence appears generally as a thick, gummy mass,
easily soluble in water and alcohol. It has a bitter taste.

TAUROCOL; TAUROCOLLA
Tau"ro*col, Tau`ro*col"la, n. Etym: [NL. taurocolla, fr. Gr.
taurocolle.]

Defn: Glue made from a bull's hide.

TAUROMACHIAN
Tau`ro*ma"chi*an, a. Etym: [See Tauromachy.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to bullfights.
 -- n.

Defn: A bullfighter.

TAUROMACHY
Tau*rom"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Bullfighting.

TAURUS
Tau"rus, n. Etym: [L., akin to Gr. steer. See Steer a young ox.]

1. (Astron.)
(a) The Bull; the second in order of the twelve signs of the zodiac,
which the sun enters about the 20th of April; -- marked thus [taurus]
in almanacs.
(b) A zodiacal constellation, containing the well-known clusters
called the Pleiades and the Hyades, in the latter of which is
situated the remarkably bright Aldebaran.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of ruminants comprising the common domestic cattle.

TAURYLIC
Tau*ryl"ic, a. Etym: [L. taurus a bull + E. phenylic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid found of a urine of neat
cattle, and probably identical with cresol.

TAUT
Taut, a. Etym: [Dan. t?t; akin to E. tight. See Tight.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: Tight; stretched; not slack; -- said esp. of a rope that is
tightly strained.

2. Sung; close; firm; secure. Taut hand (Naut.), a sailor's term for
an officer who is severe in discipline.

TAUTAUG
Tau*taug", n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Tautog.

TAUTEGORICAL
Tau`te*gor"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. Allegory.]

Defn: Expressing the same thing with different words; -- opposed to
allegorical. [R.] Coleridge.

TAUTOCHRONE
Tau"to*chrone, n. Etym: [Gr. tautochrone.] (Math.)

Defn: A curved line, such that a heavy body, descending along it by
the action of gravity, will always arrive at the lowest point in the
same time, wherever in the curve it may begin to fall; as, an
inverted cycloid with its base horizontal is a tautochrone.

TAUTOCHRONOUS
Tau*toch"ro*nous, a. (Math.)

Defn: Occupying the same time; pertaining to, or having the
properties of, a tautochrone.

TAUTOG
Tau*tog", n. Etym: [The pl. of taut, the American Indian name,
translated by Roger Williams sheep's heads, and written by him
tautauog.] (Zool.)

Defn: An edible labroid fish (Haitula onitis, or Tautoga onitis) of
the Atlantic coast of the United States. When adult it is nearly
black, more or less irregularly barred, with greenish gray. Called
also blackfish, oyster fish, salt-water chub, and moll. [Written also
tautaug.]

TAUTOLOGIC
Tau`to*log"ic, a.

Defn: Tautological.

TAUTOLOGICAL
Tau`to*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tautologique.]

Defn: Involving tautology; having the same signification; as,
tautological expression.
 -- Tau`to*log"ic*al*ly, adv. Tautological echo, an echo that repeats
the same sound or syllable many times.

TAUTOLOGIST
Tau*tol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who uses tautological words or phrases.

TAUTOLOGIZE
Tau*tol"o*gize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Tautologized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tautologizing.]

Defn: To repeat the same thing in different words.

TAUTOLOGOUS
Tau*tol"o*gous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Repeating the same thing in different words; tautological. [R.]
Tooke.

TAUTOLOGY
Tau*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. tautologia, Gr. tautologie.] (Rhet.)

Defn: A repetition of the same meaning in different words; needless
repetition of an idea in different words or phrases; a representation
of anything as the cause, condition, or consequence of itself, as in
the following lines: --
The dawn is overcast, the morning lowers, And heavily in clouds
brings on the day. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Repetition.
 -- Tautology, Repetition. There may be frequent repetitions (as in
legal instruments) which are warranted either by necessity or
convenience; but tautology is always a fault, being a sameness of
expression which adds nothing to the sense or the sound.

TAUTOMERIC
Tau`to*mer"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Relating to, or characterized by, tautomerism.

TAUTOMERISM
Tau*tom"er*ism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: The condition, quality, or relation of metameric substances, or
their respective derivatives, which are more or less interchangeable,
according as one form or the other is the more stable. It is a
special case of metamerism; thus, the lactam and the lactim compounds
exhibit tautomerism.

TAUTOOUSIAN; TAUTOOUSIOUS
Tau`to*ou"si*an, Tau`to*ou"si*ous, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Having the same essence; being identically of the same nature.
[R.] Cudworth.

TAUTOPHONICAL
Tau`to*phon"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or characterized by, tautophony; repeating the
same sound.

TAUTOPHONY
Tau*toph"o*ny, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Repetition of the same sound.

TAUTOZONAL
Tau`to*zon"al, a. Etym: [Gr. zonal.] (Crystallog.)

Defn: Belonging to the same zone; as, tautozonal planes.

TAVERN
Tav"ern, n. Etym: [OE. taverne, F. taverne, from L. taberna a hut,
booth, tavern. Cf. Table, Tabernacle.]

Defn: A public house where travelers and other transient guests are
accomodated with rooms and meals; an inn; a hotel; especially, in
modern times, a public house licensed to sell liquor in small
quantities.

TAVERNER
Tav"ern*er, n. Etym: [F. tavernier, L. tabernarius.]

Defn: One who keeps a tavern. Chaucer. Camden.

TAVERNING
Tav"ern*ing, n.

Defn: A feasting at taverns. [Obs.] "The misrule of our tavernings."
Bp. Hall.

TAVERNMAN
Tav"ern*man, n.; pl. Tavernmen (.

Defn: The keeper of a tavern; also, a tippler. [Obs.]

TAW
Taw, n.

Defn: Tow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TAW
Taw, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Tew to tow, Tow, v. t.]

Defn: To push; to tug; to tow. [Obs.] Drayton.

TAW
Taw, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tawed; p. pr. & vb. n. Tawing.] Etym: [OE.
tawen, tewen, AS. tawian to prepare; cf. D. touwen, Goth. tewa order,
taujan to do, and E. tool. *64. Cf. 1st Tew, Tow the coarse part of
flax.]

1. To prepare or dress, as hemp, by beating; to tew; hence, to beat;
to scourge. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

2. To dress and prepare, as the skins of sheep, lambs, goats, and
kids, for gloves, and the like, by imbuing them with alum, salt, and
other agents, for softening and bleaching them.

TAW
Taw, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. taw instrument.]

1. A large marble to be played with; also, a game at marbles.

2. A line or mark from which the players begin a game of marbles.
[Colloq. U.S.]

TAWDRILY
Taw"dri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a tawdry manner.

TAWDRINESS
Taw"dri*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being tawdry.
A clumsy person makes his ungracefulness more ungraceful by
tawdriness of dress. Richardson.

TAWDRY
Taw"dry, a. [Compar. Tawdrier; superl. Tawdriest.] Etym: [Said to be
corrupted from Saint Audrey, or Auldrey, meaning Saint Ethelreda,
implying therefore, originally, bought at the fair of St. Audrey,
where laces and gay toys of all sorts were sold. This fair was held
in Isle Ely, and probably at other places, on the day of the saint,
which was the 17th of October.]

1. Bought at the festival of St. Audrey. [Obs.]
And gird in your waist, For more fineness, with a tawdry lace.
Spenser.

2. Very fine and showy in colors, without taste or elegance; having
an excess of showy ornaments without grace; cheap and gaudy; as, a
tawdry dress; tawdry feathers; tawdry colors.
He rails from morning to night at essenced fops and tawdry courtiers.
Spectator.

TAWDRY
Taw"dry, n.; pl. Tawdries (.

Defn: A necklace of a rural fashion, bought at St. Audrey's fair;
hence, a necklace in general. [Obs.]
Of which the Naiads and the blue Nereids make Them tawdries for their
necks. Drayton.

TAWER
Taw"er, n.

Defn: One who taws; a dresser of white leather.

TAWERY
Taw"er*y, n.

Defn: A place where skins are tawed.

TAWNINESS
Taw"ni*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being tawny.

TAWNY
Taw"ny, a. [Compar. Tawnier; superl. Tawniest.] Etym: [F. tanne, p.p.
of tanner to tan. See Tan, v. t. & n. Cf. Tenne.]

Defn: Of a dull yellowish brown color, like things tanned, or persons
who are sunburnt; as, tawny Moor or Spaniard; the tawny lion. "A
leopard's tawny and spotted hide." Longfellow.

TAWS
Taws, n. Etym: [See Taw to beat.]

Defn: A leather lash, or other instrument of punishment, used by a
schoolmaster. [Written also tawes, tawis, and tawse.] [Scot.]
Never use the taws when a gloom can do the turn. Ramsay.

TAX
Tax, n. Etym: [F. taxe, fr. taxer to tax, L. taxare to touch,
sharply, to feel, handle, to censure, value, estimate, fr. tangere,
tactum, to touch. See Tangent, and cf. Task, Taste.]

1. A charge, especially a pecuniary burden which is imposed by
authority. Specifically: --
(a) A charge or burden laid upon persons or property for the support
of a government.
A farmer of taxes is, of all creditors, proverbially the most
rapacious. Macaulay.

(b) Especially, the sum laid upon specific things, as upon polls,
lands, houses, income, etc.; as, a land tax; a window tax; a tax on
carriages, and the like.

Note: Taxes are annual or perpetual, direct or indirect, etc.
(c) A sum imposed or levied upon the members of a society to defray
its expenses.

2. A task exacted from one who is under control; a contribution or
service, the rendering of which is imposed upon a subject.

3. A disagreeable or burdensome duty or charge; as, a heavy tax on
time or health.

4. Charge; censure. [Obs.] Clarendon.

5. A lesson to be learned; a task. [Obs.] Johnson. Tax cart, a spring
cart subject to a low tax. [Eng.]

Syn.
 -- Impost; tribute; contribution; duty; toll; rate; assessment;
exaction; custom; demand.

TAX
Tax, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Taxed; p. pr. & vb. n. Taxing.] Etym: [Cf.
F. taxer. See Tax, n.]

1. To subject to the payment of a tax or taxes; to impose a tax upon;
to lay a burden upon; especially, to exact money from for the support
of government.
We are more heavily taxed by our idleness, pride, and folly than we
are taxed by government. Franklin.

2. (Law)

Defn: To assess, fix, or determine judicially, the amount of; as, to
tax the cost of an action in court.

3. To charge; to accuse; also, to censure; -- often followed by with,
rarely by of before an indirect object; as, to tax a man with pride.
I tax you, you elements, with unkindness. Shak.
Men's virtues I have commended as freely as I have taxed their
crimes. Dryden.
Fear not now that men should tax thine honor. M. Arnold.

TAXABILITY
Tax`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being taxable; taxableness.

TAXABLE
Tax"a*ble, a.

1. Capable of being taxed; liable by law to the assessment of taxes;
as, taxable estate; taxable commodities.

2. (Law)

Defn: That may be legally charged by a court against the plaintiff of
defendant in a suit; as, taxable costs.
 -- Tax"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Tax"a*bly, adv.

TAXASPIDEAN
Tax`as*pid"e*an, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the posterior tarsal scales, or scutella, rectangular
and arranged in regular rows; -- said of certain birds.

TAXATION
Tax*a"tion, n. Etym: [F. taxation, L. taxatio a valuing, estimation,
from L. taxare. See Tax.]

1. The act of laying a tax, or of imposing taxes, as on the subjects
of a state, by government, or on the members of a corporation or
company, by the proper authority; the raising of revenue; also, a
system of raising revenue.

2. (Law)

Defn: The act of taxing, or assessing a bill of cost.

3. Tax; sum imposed. [R.] Daniel.

4. Charge; accusation. [Obs.] Shak.

TAX CERTIFICATE
Tax certificate. (Law)

Defn: The certificate issued to the purchaser of land at a tax sale
certifying to the sale and the payment of the consideration thereof,
and entitling the purchaser upon certain conditions and at a certain
time thereafter to a deed or instrument of conveyance (called a tax
deed) of the land, to be executed by the proper officer.

TAXEL
Tax"el, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The American badger.

TAXEOPODA
Tax`e*op"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An order of extinct Mammalia found in the Tertiary formations.

TAXER
Tax"er, n.

1. One who taxes.

2. One of two officers chosen yearly to regulate the assize of bread,
and to see the true gauge of weights and measures is observed. [Camb.
Univ., Eng.] [Written also taxor.]

TAXGATHERER
Tax"gath`er*er, n.

Defn: One who collects taxes or revenues.
 -- Tax"gath`er*ing, n.

TAXIARCH
Tax"i*arch, n. Etym: [Gr. (Gr. Antiq.)

Defn: An Athenian military officer commanding a certain division of
an army. Milford.

TAXICORN
Tax"i*corn, n. Etym: [L. taxus a yew + cornu a horn: cf. F.
taxicorne.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of a family of beetles (Taxicornes) whose antenn? are
largest at the tip. Also used adjectively.

TAXIDERMIC
Tax`i*der"mic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. taxidermique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the art of preparing and preserving the
skins of animals.

TAXIDERMIST
Tax"i*der`mist, n.

Defn: A person skilled in taxidermy.

TAXIDERMY
Tax"i*der`my, n. Etym: [Gr. taxidermie. See Tactics, Tear, v. t.]

Defn: The art of preparing, preserving, and mounting the skins of
animals so as to represent their natural appearance, as for cabinets.

TAXINE
Tax"ine, n. Etym: [L. taxus a yew.] (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous alkaloid of bitter taste extracted from the leaves
and seeds of the European yew (Taxus baccata). Called also
taxia.C35H47NO10

TAXIS
Tax"is, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Surg.)

Defn: Manipulation applied to a hernial tumor, or to an intestinal
obstruction, for the purpose of reducing it. Dunglison.

TAXLESS
Tax"less, a.

Defn: Free from taxation.

TAXOLOGY
Tax*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Biol.)

Defn: Same as Taxonomy.

TAXONOMIC
Tax`o*nom"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or involving, taxonomy, or the laws and
principles of classification; classificatory.

TAXONOMIST
Tax*on"o*mist, n.

Defn: One skilled in taxonomy.

TAXONOMY
Tax*on"o*my, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: That division of the natural sciences which treats of the
classification of animals and plants; the laws or principles of
classification.

TAXOR
Tax"or, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Same as Taxer, n., 2.

TAXPAYER
Tax"pay`er, n.

Defn: One who is assessed and pays a tax.

TAYLOR-WHITE PROCESS
Tay"lor-White" proc`ess. (Metal.)

Defn: A process (invented about 1899 by Frederick W. Taylor and
Maunsel B. White) for giving toughness to self-hardening steels. The
steel is heated almost to fusion, cooled to a temperature of from
700? to 850? C. in molten lead, further cooled in oil, reheated to
between 370? and 670? C., and cooled in air.

TAYRA
Tay"ra, n. Etym: [From the native name.] (Zool.)

Defn: A South American carnivore (Galera barbara) allied to the
grison. The tail is long and thick. The length, including the tail,
is about three feet. [Written also taira.]

TAZEL
Ta"zel, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The teasel. [Obs.]

TAZZA
Taz"za, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: An ornamental cup or vase with a large, flat, shallow bowl,
resting on a pedestal and often having handles.

T CART
T" cart`.

Defn: See under T.

TCHAWYTCHA
Tcha*wy"tcha, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The quinnat salmon. [Local, U.S.]

TCHICK
Tchick, n. [Imitative.]

Defn: A slight sound such as that made by pressing the tongue against
the roof of the mouth and explosively sucking out the air at one
side, as in urging on a horse. -- v. i.

Defn: To make a tchick.

T CONNECTION
T connection. (Elec.)

Defn: The connection of two coils diagrammatically as a letter T,
chiefly used as a connection for passing transformers. When the three
free ends are connected to a source of three-phase current, two-phase
current may be derived from the secondary circuits. The reverse
arrangement may be used to transform from two-phase. -- T"-connected,
a.

TEA
Tea, n. Etym: [Chin. tsha, Prov. Chin. te: cf. F. the.]

1. The prepared leaves of a shrub, or small tree (Thea, or Camellia,
Chinensis). The shrub is a native of China, but has been introduced
to some extent into some other countries.

Note: Teas are classed as green or black, according to their color or
appearance, the kinds being distinguished also by various other
characteristic differences, as of taste, odor, and the like. The
color, flavor, and quality are dependent upon the treatment which the
leaves receive after being gathered. The leaves for green tea are
heated, or roasted slightly, in shallow pans over a wood fire, almost
immediately after being gathered, after which they are rolled with
the hands upon a table, to free them from a portion of their
moisture, and to twist them, and are then quickly dried. Those
intended for black tea are spread out in the air for some time after
being gathered, and then tossed about with the hands until they
become soft and flaccid, when they are roasted for a few minutes, and
rolled, and having then been exposed to the air for a few hours in a
soft and moist state, are finally dried slowly over a charcoal fire.
The operation of roasting and rolling is sometimes repeated several
times, until the leaves have become of the proper color. The
principal sorts of green tea are Twankay, the poorest kind; Hyson
skin, the refuse of Hyson; Hyson, Imperial, and Gunpowder, fine
varieties; and Young Hyson, a choice kind made from young leaves
gathered early in the spring. Those of black tea are Bohea, the
poorest kind; Congou; Oolong; Souchong, one of the finest varieties;
and Pekoe, a fine-flavored kind, made chiefly from young spring buds.
See Bohea, Congou, Gunpowder tea, under Gunpowder, Hyson, Oolong, and
Souchong. K. Johnson. Tomlinson.

Note: "No knowledge of . . . [tea] appears to have reached Europe
till after the establishment of intercourse between Portugal and
China in 1517. The Portuguese, however, did little towards the
introduction of the herb into Europe, and it was not till the Dutch
established themselves at Bantam early in 17th century, that these
adventurers learned from the Chinese the habit of tea drinking, and
brought it to Europe." Encyc. Brit.

2. A decoction or infusion of tea leaves in boiling water; as, tea is
a common beverage.

3. Any infusion or decoction, especially when made of the dried
leaves of plants; as, sage tea; chamomile tea; catnip tea.

4. The evening meal, at which tea is usually served; supper. Arabian
tea, the leaves of Catha edulis; also (Bot.), the plant itself. See
Kat.
 -- Assam tea, tea grown in Assam, in India, originally brought there
from China about the year 1850.
 -- Australian, or Botany Bay, tea (Bot.), a woody clambing plant
(Smilax glycyphylla).
 -- Brazilian tea. (a) The dried leaves of Lantana pseodothea, used
in Brazil as a substitute for tea. (b) The dried leaves of
Stachytarpheta mutabilis, used for adulterating tea, and also, in
Austria, for preparing a beverage.
 -- Labrador tea. (Bot.) See under Labrador.
 -- New Jersey tea (Bot.), an American shrub, the leaves of which
were formerly used as a substitute for tea; redroot. See Redroot.
 -- New Zealand tea. (Bot.) See under New Zealand.
 -- Oswego tea. (Bot.) See Oswego tea.
 -- Paraguay tea, mate. See 1st Mate.
 -- Tea board, a board or tray for holding a tea set.
 -- Tea bug (Zool.), an hemipterous insect which injures the tea
plant by sucking the juice of the tender leaves.
 -- Tea caddy, a small box for holding tea.
 -- Tea chest, a small, square wooden case, usually lined with sheet
lead or tin, in which tea is imported from China.
 -- Tea clam (Zool.), a small quahaug. [Local, U.S.] -- Tea garden, a
public garden where tea and other refreshments are served.
 -- Tea plant (Bot.), any plant, the leaves of which are used in
making a beverage by infusion; specifically, Thea Chinensis, from
which the tea of commerce is obtained.
 -- Tea rose (Bot.), a delicate and graceful variety of the rose
(Rosa Indica, var. odorata), introduced from China, and so named from
its scent. Many varieties are now cultivated.
 -- Tea service, the appurtenances or utensils required for a tea
table, -- when of silver, usually comprising only the teapot, milk
pitcher, and sugar dish.
 -- Tea set, a tea service.
 -- Tea table, a table on which tea furniture is set, or at which tea
is drunk.
 -- Tea taster, one who tests or ascertains the quality of tea by
tasting.
 -- Tea tree (Bot.), the tea plant of China. See Tea plant, above.
 -- Tea urn, a vessel generally in the form of an urn or vase, for
supplying hot water for steeping, or infusing, tea.

TEA
Tea, v. i.

Defn: To take or drink tea. [Colloq.]

TEABERRY
Tea"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The checkerberry.

TEACH
Teach, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Taught; p. pr. & vb. n. Teaching.] Etym:
[OE. techen, imp. taughte, tahte, AS. t, imp. t, to show, teach, akin
to tacn token. See Token.]

1. To impart the knowledge of; to give intelligence concerning; to
impart, as knowledge before unknown, or rules for practice; to
inculcate as true or important; to exhibit impressively; as, to teach
arithmetic, dancing, music, or the like; to teach morals.
If some men teach wicked things, it must be that others should
practice them. South.

2. To direct, as an instructor; to manage, as a preceptor; to guide
the studies of; to instruct; to inform; to conduct through a course
of studies; as, to teach a child or a class. "He taught his
disciples." Mark ix. 31.
The village master taught his little school. Goldsmith.

3. To accustom; to guide; to show; to admonish.
I shall myself to herbs teach you. Chaucer.
They have taught their tongue to speak lies. Jer. ix. 5.

Note: This verb is often used with two objects, one of the person,
the other of the thing; as, he taught me Latin grammar. In the
passive construction, either of these objects may be retained in the
objective case, while the other becomes the subject; as, I was taught
Latin grammar by him; Latin grammar was taught me by him.

Syn.
 -- To instruct; inform; inculcate; tell; guide; counsel; admonish.
See the Note under Learn.

TEACH
Teach, v. i.

Defn: To give instruction; to follow the business, or to perform the
duties, of a preceptor.
And gladly would he learn, and gladly teach. Chaucer.
The priests thereof teach for hire. Micah iii. 11.

TEACHABLE
Teach"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being taught; apt to learn; also, willing to receive
instruction; docile.
We ought to bring our minds free, unbiased, and teachable, to learn
our religion from the Word of God. I. Watts.

TEACHABLENESS
Teach"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Willingness to be taught.

TEACHE
Teache, n. Etym: [Cf. Ir. teaghaim, Gael. teasaich, to heat.] (Sugar
Works)

Defn: One of the series of boilers in which the cane juice is treated
in making sugar; especially, the last boiler of the series. Ure.

TEACHER
Teach"er, n.

1. One who teaches or instructs; one whose business or occupation is
to instruct others; an instructor; a tutor.

2. One who instructs others in religion; a preacher; a minister of
the gospel; sometimes, one who preaches without regular ordination.
The teachers in all the churches assembled. Sir W. Raleigh.

TEACHING
Teach"ing, n.

Defn: The act or business of instructing; also, that which is taught;
instruction.

Syn.
 -- Education; instruction; breeding. See Education.

TEACHLESS
Teach"less, a.

Defn: Not teachable. [R.] Shelley.

TEACUP
Tea"cup`, n.

Defn: A small cup from which to drink tea.

TEACUPFUL
Tea"cup`ful, n.; pl. Teacupfuls (.

Defn: As much as a teacup can hold; enough to fill a teacup.

TEAD; TEADE
Tead, Teade, n. Etym: [L. taeda, teda.]

Defn: A torch. [Obs.] "A burning teade." Spenser.

TEAGLE
Tea"gle, n. Etym: [Cf. Tackle.]

Defn: A hoisting apparatus; an elevator; a crane; a lift. [Prov.
Eng.]

TEAGUE
Teague, n. Etym: [Cf. W. taeog, taeawg, adj., rustic, rude, n., a
vassal, villain, pleasant, clown, Ir. th rural, boorish.]

Defn: An Irishman; -- a term used in contempt. Johnson.

TEAK
Teak, n. Etym: [Malayalm tekku.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree of East Indies (Tectona grandis) which furnishes an
extremely strong and durable timber highly valued for shipbuilding
and other purposes; also, the timber of the tree. [Written also
teek.] African teak, a tree (Oldfieldia Africana) of Sierra Leone;
also, its very heavy and durable wood; -- called also African oak.
 -- New Zeland teak, a large tree (Vitex littoralis) of New Zeland;
also, its hard, durable timber.

TEAKETTLE
Tea"ket`tle, n.

Defn: A kettle in which water is boiled for making tea, coffee, etc.

TEAL
Teal, n. Etym: [OE. tele; akin to D. teling a generation, production,
teal, telen to breed, produce, and E. till to cultivate. The English
word probably once meant, a brood or flock. See Till to cultivate.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small fresh-water ducks of the
genus Anas and the subgenera Querquedula and Nettion. The male is
handsomely colored, and has a bright green or blue speculum on the
wings.

Note: The common European teal (Anas crecca) and the European blue-
winged teal, or garganey (A. querquedula or A. circia), are well-
known species. In America the blue-winged teal (A. discors), the
green-winged teal (A. Carolinensis), and the cinnamon teal (A.
cynaoptera) are common species, valued as game birds. See Garganey.
Goose teal, a goslet. See Goslet.
 -- Teal duck, the common European teal.

TEAM
Team, n. Etym: [OE. tem, team, AS. team, offspring, progeny, race of
descendants, family; akin to D. toom a bridle, LG. toom progeny,
team, bridle, G. zaum a bridle, zeugen to beget, Icel. taumr to rein,
bridle, Dan. tomme, Sw. tom, and also to E. tow to drag, tug to draw.
*64. See Tug, and cf. Teem to bear.]

1. A group of young animals, especially of young ducks; a brood; a
litter.
A team of ducklings about her. Holland.

2. Hence, a number of animals moving together.
A long team of snowy swans on high. Dryden.

3. Two or more horses, oxen, or other beasts harnessed to the same
vehicle for drawing, as to a coach, wagon, sled, or the like. "A team
of dolphins." Spenser.
To take his team and till the earth. Piers Plowman.
It happened almost every day that coaches stuck fast, until a team of
cattle could be procured from some neighboring farm to tug them out
of the slough. Macaulay.

4. A number of persons associated together in any work; a gang;
especially, a number of persons selected to contend on one side in a
match, or a series of matches, in a cricket, football, rowing, etc.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: A flock of wild ducks.

6. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A royalty or privilege granted by royal charter to a lord of a
manor, of having, keeping, and judging in his court, his bondmen,
neifes, and villains, and their offspring, or suit, that is, goods
and chattels, and appurtenances thereto. Burrill.

TEAM
Team, v. i.

Defn: To engage in the occupation of driving a team of horses,
cattle, or the like, as in conveying or hauling lumber, goods, etc.;
to be a teamster. team up, to form one or more teams, either for a
common endeavor, or to compete in a contest.

TEAM
Team, v. t.

Defn: To convey or haul with a team; as, to team lumber. [R.]
Thoreau.

TEAMED
Teamed, a.

Defn: Yoked in, or as in, a team. [Obs.]
Let their teamed fishes softly swim. Spenser.

TEAMING
Team"ing, n.

1. The act or occupation of driving a team, or of hauling or
carrying, as logs, goods, or the like, with a team.

2. (Manuf.)

Defn: Contract work. [R.] Knight.

TEAMSTER
Team"ster, n.

Defn: One who drives a team.

TEAMWORK
Team"work`, n.

Defn: Work done by a team, as distinguished from that done by
personal labor.

TEAPOT
Tea"pot`, n.

Defn: A vessel with a spout, in which tea is made, and from which it
is poured into teacups.

TEAPOY
Tea"poy, n. Etym: [Hind. tipai; Hind. tin there + Per. pae foot.]

Defn: An ornamental stand, usually with three legs, having caddies
for holding tea.

TEAR
Tear, n. Etym: [AS. tear; akin to G. zarhe, OHG. zahar, OFries. &
Icel. tar, Sw. tar, Dan. taare, Goth. tagr, OIr. der, W. dagr, OW.
dacr, L. lacrima, lacruma, for older dacruma, Gr. Lachrymose.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: A drop of the limpid, saline fluid secreted, normally in small
amount, by the lachrymal gland, and diffused between the eye and the
eyelids to moisten the parts and facilitate their motion. Ordinarily
the secretion passes through the lachrymal duct into the nose, but
when it is increased by emotion or other causes, it overflows the
lids.
And yet for thee ne wept she never a tear. Chaucer.

2. Something in the form of a transparent drop of fluid matter; also,
a solid, transparent, tear-shaped drop, as of some balsams or resins.
Let Araby extol her happy coast, Her fragrant flowers, her trees with
precious tears. Dryden.

3. That which causes or accompanies tears; a lament; a dirge. [R.]
"Some melodous tear." Milton.

Note: Tear is sometimes used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, tear-distilling, tear-drop, tear-filled, tear-stained,
and the like.

TEAR
Tear, v. t. [imp. Tore, ((Obs. Tare) (; p. p. Torn; p. pr. & vb. n.
Tearing.] Etym: [OE. teren, AS. teran; akin to OS. farterian to
destroy, D. teren to consume, G. zerren to pull, to tear, zehren to
consume, Icel. t?ra, Goth. gatairan to destroy, Lith. dirti to flay,
Russ. drate to pull, to tear, Gr. dar to burst. *63. Cf. Darn,
Epidermis, Tarre, Tirade.]

1. To separate by violence; to pull apart by force; to rend; to
lacerate; as, to tear cloth; to tear a garment; to tear the skin or
flesh.
Tear him to pieces; he's a conspirator. Shak.

2. Hence, to divide by violent measures; to disrupt; to rend; as, a
party or government torn by factions.

3. To rend away; to force away; to remove by force; to sunder; as, a
child torn from its home.
The hand of fate Hath torn thee from me. Addison.

4. To pull with violence; as, to tear the hair.

5. To move violently; to agitate. "Once I loved torn ocean's roar."
Byron. To tear a cat, to rant violently; to rave; -- especially
applied to theatrical ranting. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- To tear down, to demolish violently; to pull or pluck down.
 -- To tear off, to pull off by violence; to strip.
 -- To tear out, to pull or draw out by violence; as, to tear out the
eyes.
 -- To tear up, to rip up; to remove from a fixed state by violence;
as, to tear up a floor; to tear up the foundation of government or
order.

TEAR
Tear, v. i.

1. To divide or separate on being pulled; to be rent; as, this cloth
tears easily.

2. To move and act with turbulent violence; to rush with violence;
hence, to rage; to rave.

TEAR
Tear, n.

Defn: The act of tearing, or the state of being torn; a rent; a
fissure. Macaulay. Wear and tear. See under Wear, n.

TEARER
Tear"er, n.

Defn: One who tears or rends anything; also, one who rages or raves
with violence.

TEAR-FALLING
Tear"-fall`ing, a.

Defn: Shedding tears; tender. [Poetic] "Tear-falling pity." Shak.

TEARFUL
Tear"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding with tears; weeping; shedding tears; as, tearful
eyes.
 -- Tear"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Tear"ful*ness, n.

TEARLESS
Tear"less, a.

Defn: Shedding no tears; free from tears; unfeeling.
 -- Tear"less*ly, adv.
 -- Tear"less*ness, n.

TEARPIT
Tear"pit`, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A cavity or pouch beneath the lower eyelid of most deer and
antelope; the lachrymal sinus; larmier. It is capable of being opened
at pleasure and secretes a waxy substance.

TEAR-THUMB
Tear"-thumb`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several species of plants of the genus
Polygonum, having angular stems beset with minute reflexed prickles.

TEARY
Tear"y, a.

1. Wet with tears; tearful.

2. Consisting of tears, or drops like tears.

TEA-SAUCER
Tea"-sau`cer, n.

Defn: A small saucer in which a teacup is set.

TEASE
Tease, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Teased; p. pr. & vb. n. Teasing.] Etym:
[AS. t to pluck, tease; akin to OD. teesen, MHG. zeisen, Dan. t?se,
t?sse. *58. Cf. Touse.]

1. To comb or card, as wool or flax. "Teasing matted wool."
Wordsworth.

2. To stratch, as cloth, for the purpose of raising a nap; teasel.

3. (Anat.)

Defn: To tear or separate into minute shreds, as with needles or
similar instruments.

4. To vex with importunity or impertinence; to harass, annoy,
disturb, or irritate by petty requests, or by jests and raillery; to
plague. Cowper.
He . . . suffered them to tease him into acts directly opposed to his
strongest inclinations. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- To vex; harass: annoy; disturb; irritate; plague; torment;
mortify; tantalize; chagrin.
 -- Tease, Vex. To tease is literally to pull or scratch, and implies
a prolonged annoyance in respect to little things, which is often
more irritating, and harder to bear, than severe pain. Vex meant
originally to seize and bear away hither and thither, and hence, to
disturb; as, to vex the ocean with storms. This sense of the term now
rarely occurs; but vex is still a stronger word than tease, denoting
the disturbance or anger created by minor provocations, losses,
disappointments, etc. We are teased by the buzzing of a fly in our
eyes; we are vexed by the carelessness or stupidity of our servants.
Not by the force of carnal reason, But indefatigable teasing.
Hudibras.
In disappointments, where the affections have been strongly placed,
and the expectations sanguine, particularly where the agency of
others is concerned, sorrow may degenerate into vexation and chagrin.
Cogan.
Tease tenon (Joinery), a long tenon at the top of a post to receive
two beams crossing each other one above the other.

TEASE
Tease, n.

Defn: One who teases or plagues. [Colloq.]

TEASEL
Tea"sel, n. Etym: [OE. tesel, AS. t, t, the fuller's herb. See
Tease.] [Written also tassel, tazel, teasle, teazel, and teazle.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Dipsacus, of which one species (D.
fullonum) bears a large flower head covered with stiff, prickly,
hooked bracts. This flower head, when dried, is used for raising a
nap on woolen cloth.

Note: Small teasel is Dipsacus pilosus, wild teasel is D. sylvestris.

2. A bur of this plant.

3. Any contrivance intended as a substitute for teasels in dressing
cloth. Teasel frame, a frame or set of iron bars in which teasel
heads are fixed for raising the nap on woolen cloth.

TEASEL
Tea"sel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Teaseled or Teaselled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Teaseling or Teaselling.]

Defn: To subject, as woolen cloth, to the action of teasels, or any
substitute for them which has an effect to raise a nap.

TEASELER
Tea"sel*er, n.

Defn: One who uses teasels for raising a nap on cloth. [Written also
teaseller, teasler.]

TEASELING
Tea"sel*ing, n.

Defn: The cutting and gathering of teasels; the use of teasels.
[Written also teaselling, teazling.]

TEASER
Teas"er, n.

1. One who teases or vexes.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A jager gull. [Prov. Eng.]

TEASLE
Tea"sle, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Teasel.

TEASPOON
Tea"spoon`, n.

Defn: A small spoon used in stirring and sipping tea, coffee, etc.,
and for other purposes.

TEASPOONFUL
Tea"spoon`ful, n.; pl. Teaspoonfuls (.

Defn: As much as teaspoon will hold; enough to fill a teaspoon; --
usually reckoned at a fluid dram or one quarter of a tablespoonful.

TEAT
Teat, n. Etym: [OE. tete, titte, AS. tit, titt; akin to LG. & OD.
titte, D. tet, G. zitze: cf. F. tette, probably of Teutonic origin.]

1. The protuberance through which milk is drawn from the udder or
breast of a mammal; a nipple; a pap; a mammilla; a dug; a tit.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A small protuberance or nozzle resembling the teat of an
animal.

TEATED
Teat"ed, a.

Defn: Having protuberances resembling the teat of an animal.

TEATHE
Teathe, n. & v.

Defn: See Tath. [Prov. Eng.]

TEATISH
Teat"ish, a.

Defn: Peevish; tettish; fretful; -- said of a child. See Tettish.
[Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

TEAZE-HOLE
Teaze"-hole`, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. F. tisard fire door.] (Glass
Works)

Defn: The opening in the furnaces through which fuel is introduced.

TEAZEL
Tea"zel, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Teasel.

TEAZER
Tea"zer, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. F. tiser to feed a fire.]

Defn: The stoker or fireman of a furnace, as in glass works.
Tomlinson.

TEAZLE
Tea"zle, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Teasel.

TEBETH
Te"beth, n. Etym: [Heb.]

Defn: The tenth month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year, answering to
a part of December with a part of January. Esther ii. 16.

TECHILY
Tech"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a techy manner.

TECHINESS
Tech"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being techy.

TECHNIC
Tech"nic, a.

Defn: Technical.

TECHNIC
Tech"nic, n. Etym: [See Technical, a.]

1. The method of performance in any art; technical skill; artistic
execution; technique.
They illustrate the method of nature, not the technic of a manlike
Artificer. Tyndall.

2. pl.

Defn: Technical terms or objects; things pertaining to the practice
of an art or science.

TECHNICAL
Tech"nic*al, a. Etym: [Gr. text: cf. F. technique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the useful or mechanic arts, or to any
science, business, or the like; specially appropriate to any art,
science, or business; as, the words of an indictment must be
technical. Blackstone.

TECHNICALITY
Tech`ni*cal"i*ty, n.; pl. Technicalities (.

1. The quality or state of being technical; technicalness.

2. That which is technical, or peculiar to any trade, profession,
sect, or the like.
The technicalities of the sect. Palfrey.

TECHNICALLY
Tech"nic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a technical manner; according to the signification of terms
as used in any art, business, or profession.

TECHNICALNESS
Tech"nic*al*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being technical; technicality.

TECHNICALS
Tech"nic*als, n. pl.

Defn: Those things which pertain to the practical part of an art,
science, or profession; technical terms; technics.

TECHNICIAN
Tech*ni"cian, n.

Defn: A technicist; esp., one skilled particularly in the technical
details of his work.

TECHNICIST
Tech"ni*cist, n.

Defn: One skilled to technics or in one or more of the practical
arts.

TECHNICOLOGICAL
Tech`ni*co*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Technological; technical. [R.] Dr. J. Scott.

TECHNICOLOGY
Tech`ni*col"o*gy, n.

Defn: Technology. [R.]

TECHNICS
Tech"nics, n.

Defn: The doctrine of arts in general; such branches of learning as
respect the arts.

TECHNIPHONE
Tech"ni*phone, n. [Gr.  art + -phone.] (Music)

Defn: A dumb gymnastic apparatus for training the hands of pianists
and organists, as to a legato touch.

TECHNIQUE
Tech`nique", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Technic, n.

TECHNISM
Tech"nism, n.

Defn: Technicality.

TECHNOGRAPHY
Tech*nog"ra*phy, n. [Gr.  art, skill, craft + graph.]

Defn: Description of the arts and  crafts of tribes and peoples. --
Tech`no*graph"ic, Tech`no*graph"ic*al (#), a.

TECHNOLOGIC
Tech`no*log"ic, a.

Defn: Technological.

TECHNOLOGICAL
Tech`no*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. technologique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to technology.

TECHNOLOGIST
Tech*nol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One skilled in technology; one who treats of arts, or of the
terms of arts.

TECHNOLOGY
Tech*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy; cf. Gr. technologie.]

Defn: Industrial science; the science of systematic knowledge of the
industrial arts, especially of the more important manufactures, as
spinning, weaving, metallurgy, etc.

Note: Technology is not an independent science, having a set of
doctrines of its own, but consists of applications of the principles
established in the various physical sciences (chemistry, mechanics,
mineralogy, etc.) to manufacturing processes. Internat. Cyc.

TECHY
Tech"y, a. Etym: [From OE. tecche, tache, a habit, bad habit, vice,
OF. tache, teche, a spot, stain, blemish, habit, vice, F. tache a
spot, blemish; probably akin to E. tack a small nail. See Tack a
small nail, and cf. Touchy.]

Defn: Peevish; fretful; irritable.

TECTIBRANCH
Tec`ti*branch, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Tectibranchiata. Also used adjectively.

TECTIBRANCHIA
Tec`ti*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: Same as Tectibranchiata.

TECTIBRANCHIATA
Tec`ti*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. tectus (p.p. of
tegere to cover) + Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order, or suborder, of gastropod Mollusca in which the gills
are usually situated on one side of the back, and protected by a fold
of the mantle. When there is a shell, it is usually thin and delicate
and often rudimentary. The aplysias and the bubble shells are
examples.

TECTIBRANCHIATE
Tec`ti*bran"chi*ate, a. Etym: [L. tectus (p.p. of tegere to cover) +
E. branchiate.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having the gills covered by the mantle; of or pertaining to the
Tectibranchiata.
 -- n.

Defn: A tectibranchiate mollusk.

TECTLY
Tect"ly, adv. Etym: [L. tectus covered, fr. tegere to cover.]

Defn: Covertly; privately; secretly. [Obs.] Holinshed.

TECTOLOGY
Tec*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.] (Biol.)

Defn: A division of morphology created by Haeckel; the science of
organic individuality constituting the purely structural portion of
morphology, in which the organism is regarded as composed of organic
individuals of different orders, each organ being considered an
individual. See Promorphology, and Morphon.

TECTONIC
Tec*ton"ic, a. Etym: [L. tectonicus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to building or construction; architectural.

TECTONICS
Tec*ton"ics, n.

Defn: The science, or the art, by which implements, vessels,
dwellings, or other edifices, are constructed, both agreeably to the
end for which they are designed, and in conformity with artistic
sentiments and ideas.

TECTORIAL
Tec*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [L. tectorius.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to covering; -- applied to a membrane
immediately over the organ of Corti in the internal ear.

TECTRICES
Tec"tri*ces, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. tegere, tectum, to cover.]
(Zool.)

Defn: The wing coverts of a bird. See Covert, and Illust. of Bird.

TECUM
Te"cum, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Tucum.

TED
Ted, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Tedded; p. pr. & vb. n. Tedding.] Etym:
[Prob. fr. Icel. te to spread manure, fr. ta manure; akin to MHG.
zetten to scatter, spread. *58. Cf. Teathe.]

Defn: To spread, or turn from the swath, and scatter for drying, as
new-mowed grass; -- chiefly used in the past participle.
The smell of grain or tedded grass. Milton.
The tedded hay and corn sheaved in one field. Coleridge.

TEDDER
Ted"der, n.

Defn: A machine for stirring and spreading hay, to expedite its
drying.

TEDDER
Ted"der, n. Etym: [OE. *64. See Tether.]

Defn: Same as Tether.

TEDDER
Ted"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Teddered; p. pr. & vb. n. Teddering.]

Defn: Same as Tether.

TEDESCO
Te*des"co, a.; pl. Tedeschi (#). [It., of Germanic origin. See
Dutch.]

Defn: German; -- used chiefly of art, literature, etc.

TE DEUM
Te` De"um. Etym: [L., from te (accus. of tu thou) + Deum, accus. of
Deus God. See Thou, and Deity.]

1. An ancient and celebrated Christian hymn, of uncertain authorship,
but often ascribed to St. Ambrose; -- so called from the first words
"Te Deum laudamus." It forms part of the daily matins of the Roman
Catholic breviary, and is sung on all occasions of thanksgiving. In
its English form, commencing with words, "We praise thee, O God," it
forms a part of the regular morning service of the Church of England
and the Protestant Episcopal Church in America.

2. A religious service in which the singing of the hymn forms a
principal part.

TEDGE
Tedge, n. (Founding)

Defn: The gate of a mold, through which the melted metal is poured;
runner, geat.

TEDIOSITY
Te`di*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: Tediousness. [Obs.]

TEDIOUS
Te"di*ous, a. Etym: [L. taediosus, fr. taedium. See Tedium.]

Defn: Involving tedium; tiresome from continuance, prolixity,
slowness, or the like; wearisome.
 -- Te"di*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Te"di*ous*ness, n.
I see a man's life is a tedious one. Shak.
I would not be tedious to the court. Bunyan.

Syn.
 -- Wearisome; fatiguing. See Irksome.

TEDIUM
Te"di*um, n. Etym: [L. taedium, fr. taedet it disgusts, it wearies
one.]

Defn: Irksomeness; wearisomeness; tediousness. [Written also t?dium.]
Cowper.
To relieve the tedium, he kept plying them with all manner of bams.
Prof. Wilson.
The tedium of his office reminded him more strongly of the willing
scholar, and his thoughts were rambling. Dickens.

TEE
Tee, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. tja to show, mark.]
(a) The mark aimed at in curling and in quoits.
(b) The nodule of earth from which the ball is struck in golf.

TEE
Tee, n.

Defn: A short piece of pipe having a lateral outlet, used to connect
a line of pipe with a pipe at a right angle with the line; -- so
called because it resembles the letter T in shape.

TEEING GROUND
Teeing ground. (Golf)

Defn: The space from within which the ball must be struck in
beginning the play for each hole.

TEE IRON
Tee" i`ron.

Defn: See T iron, under T.

TEEK
Teek, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Teak. [Obs.]

TEEL
Teel, n.

Defn: Sesame. [Sometimes written til.] Teel oil, sesame oil.

TEELSEED
Teel"seed`, n.

Defn: The seed of sesame.

TEEM
Teem, v. t. Etym: [Icel. t?ma to empty, from tomr empty; akin to Dan.
tomme to empty, Sw. tomma. See Toom to empty.]

1. To pour; -- commonly followed by out; as, to teem out ale. [Obs.
or Prov. Eng.] Swift.

2. (Steel Manuf.)

Defn: To pour, as steel, from a melting pot; to fill, as a mold, with
molten metal.

TEEM
Teem, v. t. Etym: [See Tame, a., and cf. Beteem.]

Defn: To think fit. [Obs. or R.] G. Gifford.

TEEM
Teem, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Teemed; p. pr. & vb. n. Teeming.] Etym:
[OE. temen, AS. teman, t, from team. See Team.]

1. To bring forth young, as an animal; to produce fruit, as a plant;
to bear; to be pregnant; to conceive; to multiply.
If she must teem, Create her child of spleen. Shak.

2. To be full, or ready to bring forth; to be stocked to overflowing;
to be prolific; to abound.
His mind teeming with schemes of future deceit to cover former
villainy. Sir W. Scott.
The young, brimful of the hopes and feeling which teem in our time.
F. Harrison.

TEEM
Teem, v. t.

Defn: To produce; to bring forth. [R.]
That [grief] of an hour's age doth hiss the speaker; Each minute
teems a new one. Shak.

TEEMER
Teem"er, n.

Defn: One who teems, or brings forth.

TEEMFUL
Teem"ful, a.

1. Pregnant; prolific. [Obs.]

2. Brimful. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

TEEMING
Teem"ing, a.

Defn: Prolific; productive.
Teeming buds and cheerful appear. Dryden.

TEEMLESS
Teem"less, a.

Defn: Not fruitful or prolific; barren; as, a teemless earth.
[Poetic] Dryden.

TEEN
Teen, n. Etym: [OE. tene, AS. teona reproach, wrong, fr. teon to
accuse; akin to G. zeihen, Goth. gateihan to tell, announce, L.
dicere to say. See Token.]

Defn: Grief; sorrow; affiction; pain. [Archaic] Chaucer. Spenser.
With public toil and private teen Thou sank'st alone. M. Arnold.

TEEN
Teen, v. t. Etym: [AS. teonian, t, to slander, vex. *64. See Teen,
n.]

Defn: To excite; to provoke; to vex; to affict; to injure. [Obs.]
Piers Plowman.

TEEN
Teen, v. t. Etym: [See Tine to shut.]

Defn: To hedge or fence in; to inclose. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

TEENAGE
Teen"age, n.

Defn: The longer wood for making or mending fences. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

TEEND
Teend, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Tinder.]

Defn: To kindle; to burn. [Obs.] Herrick.

TEENFUL
Teen"ful, a.

Defn: Full of teen; harmful; grievous; grieving; afflicted. [Obs.]
Piers Plowman.

TEENS
Teens, n. pl. Etym: [See Ten.]

Defn: The years of one's age having the termination -teen, beginning
with thirteen and ending with nineteen; as, a girl in her teens.

TEENY
Tee"ny, a.

Defn: Very small; tiny. [Colloq.]

TEENY
Teen"y, a. Etym: [See Teen grief.]

Defn: Fretful; peevish; pettish; cross. [Prov. Eng.]

TEEONG
Tee*ong", n. (Zool.)

Defn: The mino bird.

TEEST
Teest, n.

Defn: A tinsmith's stake, or small anvil.

TEESWATER
Tees"wa`ter, n. [From the river Tees, northern England.]

1. A breed of cattle formerly bred in England, but supposed to have
originated in Holland and to have been the principal stock from which
the shorthorns were derived.

2.  An old English breed of sheep allied to the Leicester.

TEETAN
Tee"tan, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A pipit. [Prov. Eng.]

TEETEE
Tee"tee, n. Etym: [Sp. titi.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small, soft-furred South American
monkeys belonging to Callithrix, Chrysothrix, and allied genera; as,
the collared teetee (Callithrix torquatus), and the squirrel teetee
(Chrysothrix sciurea). Called also pinche, titi, and saimiri. See
Squirrel monkey, under Squirrel.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A diving petrel of Australia (Halodroma wrinatrix).

TEETER
Tee"ter, v. i. & t. [imp. & p. p. Teetered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Teetering.] Etym: [Prov. E. titter to tremble, to seesaw; cf. Icel.
titra to tremble, OHG. zittaron, G. zittern.]

Defn: To move up and down on the ends of a balanced plank, or the
like, as children do for sport; to seesaw; to titter; to titter-
totter. [U. S.]
[The bobolink] alit upon the flower, and teetered up and down. H. W.
Beecher.

TEETER-TAIL
Tee"ter-tail`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The spotted sandpiper. See the Note under Sandpiper.

TEETH
Teeth, n.,

Defn: pl. of Tooth.

TEETH
Teeth, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Teethed; p. pr. & vb. n. Teething.]

Defn: To breed, or grow, teeth.

TEETHING
Teeth"ing, n.

Defn: The process of the first growth of teeth, or the phenomena
attending their issue through the gums; dentition.

TEETOTAL
Tee*to"tal, a.

Defn: Entire; total. [Colloq.]

TEETOTALER
Tee*to"tal*er, n.

Defn: One pledged to entire abstinence from all intoxicating drinks.

TEETOTALISM
Tee*to"tal*ism, n.

Defn: The principle or practice of entire abstinence, esp. from
intoxicating drinks.

TEETOTALLY
Tee*to"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: Entirely; totally. [Colloq.]

TEETOTUM
Tee*to"tum, n. Etym: [For T-totum. It was used for playing games of
chance, and was four-sided, one side having the letter T on it,
standing for Latin totum all, meaning, take all that is staked,
whence the name. The other three sides each had a letter indicating
an English or Latin word; as P meaning put down, N nothing or L. nil,
H half. See Total.]

Defn: A child's toy, somewhat resembling a top, and twirled by the
fingers.
The staggerings of the gentleman . . . were like those of a teetotum
nearly spent. Dickens.

TEE-TO-TUM
Tee-to"-tum, n. [Cf. Teetotaler.]

Defn: A workingmen's resort conducted under religious influences as a
counteractant to the drinking saloon. [Colloq. or Cant]

TEETUCK
Tee"tuck, n.

Defn: The rock pipit. [Prov. Eng.]

TEEUCK
Tee"uck, n.

Defn: The lapwing. [Prov. Eng.]

TEEWIT
Tee"wit, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The pewit. [Prov. Eng.]

TEG
Teg, n.

Defn: A sheep in its second year; also, a doe in its second year.
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

TEGMEN
Teg"men, n.; pl. Tegmina. Etym: [L., fr. tegere, tectum, to cover.]

1. A tegument or covering.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The inner layer of the coating of a seed, usually thin and
delicate; the endopleura.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the elytra of an insect, especially of certain
Orthoptera.

4. pl. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Tectrices.

TEGMENTAL
Teg*men"tal, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tegument or tegmentum; as, the tegmental
layer of the epiblast; the tegmental cells of the taste buds.

TEGMENTUM
Teg*men"tum, n.; pl. Tegmenta. Etym: [L., a covering.] (Anat.)

Defn: A covering; -- applied especially to the bundles of
longitudinal fibers in the upper part of the crura of the cerebrum.

TEGUEXIN
Te*guex"in, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A large South American lizard (Tejus teguexin). It becomes
three or four feet long, and is blackish above, marked with yellowish
spots of various sizes. It feeds upon fruits, insects, reptiles,
young birds, and birds' eggs. The closely allied species Tejus
rufescens is called red teguexin.

TEGULA
Teg"u*la, n.; pl. Tegul?. Etym: [L., a tile, dim. fr. tegere to
cover.] (Zool.)

Defn: A small appendage situated above the base of the wings of
Hymenoptera and attached to the mesonotum.

TEGULAR
Teg"u*lar, a. Etym: [LL. tegularis, from L. tegula a tile. See Tile.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tile; resembling a tile, or arranged like
tiles; consisting of tiles; as, a tegular pavement.
 -- Teg"u*lar*ly, adv.

TEGULATED
Teg`u*la"ted, a.

Defn: Composed of small plates, as of horn or metal, overlapping like
tiles; -- said of a kind of ancient armor. Fairholt.

TEGUMENT
Teg"u*ment, n. Etym: [L. tegumentum, from tegere to cover. See
Thatch, n., and cf. Detect, Protect.]

1. A cover or covering; an integument.

2. Especially, the covering of a living body, or of some part or
organ of such a body; skin; hide.

TEGUMENTARY
Teg`u*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. tegumentaire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a tegument or teguments; consisting of
teguments; serving as a tegument or covering.

TE-HEE
Te-hee", n. & interj.

Defn: A tittering laugh; a titter. "'Te-hee,' quoth she." Chaucer.

TE-HEE
Te-hee", v. i.

Defn: To titter; to laugh derisively.
She cried, "Come, come; you must not look grave upon me." Upon this,
I te-heed. Madame D'Arblay.

TEIL
Teil, n. Etym: [OF. teil, til, L. tilia.] (Bot.)

Defn: The lime tree, or linden; -- called also teil tree.

TEIND
Teind, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. tiund. See Tithe.]

Defn: A tithe. [Scot.] Jamieson.

TEINE
Teine, n.

Defn: See Teyne. [Obs.] Chaucer.

TEINLAND
Tein"land, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: Land granted by the crown to a thane or lord. Burrill.

TEINOSCOPE
Tei"no*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument formed by combining prisms so as to correct the
chromatic aberration of the light while linear dimensions of objects
seen through the prisms are increased or diminished; -- called also
prism telescope. Sir D. Brewster.

TEINT
Teint, n. Etym: [F. teint, teinte. See Tint.]

Defn: Tint; color; tinge, See Tint. [Obs.]
Time shall . . . embrown the teint. Dryden.

TEINTURE
Tein"ture, n. Etym: [F. See Tincture.]

Defn: Color; tinge; tincture. [Obs.] Holland.

TEK
Tek, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A Siberian ibex.

TELAMONES
Tel`a*mo"nes, n. pl. Etym: [L., pl. of telamo or telamon, Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Atlantes.

TELANGIECTASIS
Tel*an`gi*ec"ta*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Dilatation of the capillary vessels.

TELANGIECTASY
Tel*an`gi*ec"ta*sy, n. (Med.)

Defn: Telangiectasis.

TELARLY
Te"lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a weblike manner. [Obs.] "Telarly interwoven." Sir T.
Browne.

TELARY
Te"la*ry, a. Etym: [LL. telaris, fr. L. tela a web. See Toil a
snare.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a web; hence, spinning webs; retiary.
"Pictures of telary spiders." Sir T. Browne.

TELAUTOGRAM
Tel*au"to*gram, n.

Defn: A message transmitted and recorded by a teleautograph.

TELAUTOGRAPH
Tel*au"to*graph, n. [Gr. th e far + autograph.]

Defn: A facsimile telegraph for reproducing writing, pictures, maps,
etc. In the transmitter the motions of the pencil are communicated by
levers to two rotary shafts, by which variations in current are
produced in two separate circuits. In the receiver these variations
are utilized by electromagnetic devices and levers to move a pen as
the pencil moves. --Tel`au*tog"ra*phist (#), n.

TELECHIROGRAPH
Tel`e*chi"ro*graph, n. [Gr. th e far + chei`r, cheiro`s, hand + -
graph.]

Defn: An instrument for  telegraphically transmitting and receiving
handwritten messages, as photographically by a beam of light from a
mirror.

TELEDU
Tel"e*du, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An East Indian carnivore (Mydaus meliceps) allied to the
badger, and noted for the very offensive odor that it emits, somewhat
resembling that of a skunk. It is a native of the high mountains of
Java and Sumatra, and has long, silky fur. Called also stinking
badger, and stinkard.

TELEGA
Te*le"ga, n. [Russ. telyega.]

Defn: A rude four-wheeled, springless wagon, used among the Russians.

TELEGONY
Te*leg"o*ny, n. [Gr. th e far + root of  Gr.  to be born.] (Biol.)

Defn: The supposed influence of a father upon offspring subsequent to
his own, begotten of the same mother by another father. --
Te*leg"o*nous (#), a.

TELEGRAM
Tel"e*gram, n. Etym: [Gr. -gram.]

Defn: A message sent by telegraph; a telegraphic dispatch.

Note: "A friend desires us to give notice that he will ask leave, at
some convenient time, to introduce a new word into the vocabulary. It
is telegram, instead of telegraphic dispatch, or telegraphic
communication." Albany [N. Y.] Evening Journal (April 6, 1852).

TELEGRAMMIC
Tel`e*gram*mic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, a telegram; laconic; concise;
brief. [R.]

TELEGRAPH
Tel"e*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. toli) + -graph: cf. F. telegraphe. See
Graphic.]

Defn: An apparatus, or a process, for communicating intelligence
rapidly between distant points, especially by means of preconcerted
visible or audible signals representing words or ideas, or by means
of words and signs, transmitted by electrical action.

Note: The instruments used are classed as indicator, type-printing,
symbol-printing, or chemical-printing telegraphs, according as the
intelligence is given by the movements of a pointer or indicator, as
in Cooke & Wheatstone's (the form commonly used in England), or by
impressing, on a fillet of paper, letters from types, as in House's
and Hughe's, or dots and marks from a sharp point moved by a magnet,
as in Morse's, or symbols produced by electro-chemical action, as in
Bain's. In the offices in the United States the recording instrument
is now little used, the receiving operator reading by ear the
combinations of long and short intervals of sound produced by the
armature of an electro-magnet as it is put in motion by the opening
and breaking of the circuit, which motion, in registering
instruments, traces upon a ribbon of paper the lines and dots used to
represent the letters of the alphabet. See Illustration in Appendix.
Acoustic telegraph. See under Acoustic.
 -- Dial telegraph, a telegraph in which letters of the alphabet and
numbers or other symbols are placed upon the border of a circular
dial plate at each station, the apparatus being so arranged that the
needle or index of the dial at the receiving station accurately
copies the movements of that at the sending station.
 -- Electric telegraph, or Electro-magnetic telegraph, a telegraph in
which an operator at one station causes words or signs to be made at
another by means of a current of electricity, generated by a battery
and transmitted over an intervening wire.
 -- Facsimile telegraph. See under Facsimile.
 -- Indicator telegraph. See under Indicator.
 -- Pan-telegraph, an electric telegraph by means of which a drawing
or writing, as an autographic message, may be exactly reproduced at a
distant station.
 -- Printing telegraph, an electric telegraph which automatically
prints the message as it is received at a distant station, in
letters, not signs.
 -- Signal telegraph, a telegraph in which preconcerted signals, made
by a machine, or otherwise, at one station, are seen or heard and
interpreted at another; a semaphore.
 -- Submarine telegraph cable, a telegraph cable laid under water to
connect stations separated by a body of water.
 -- Telegraph cable, a telegraphic cable consisting of several
conducting wires, inclosed by an insulating and protecting material,
so as to bring the wires into compact compass for use on poles, or to
form a strong cable impervious to water, to be laid under ground, as
in a town or city, or under water, as in the ocean.
 -- Telegraph plant (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Desmodium gyrans)
native of the East Indies. The leaflets move up and down like the
signals of a semaphore.

TELEGRAPH
Tel"e*graph, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Telegraphed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Telegraphing.] Etym: [F. telegraphier.]

Defn: To convey or announce by telegraph.

TELEGRAPHER
Te*leg"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One who sends telegraphic messages; a telegraphic operator; a
telegraphist.

TELEGRAPHIC
Tel`e*graph"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. telegraphique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the telegraph; made or communicated by a
telegraph; as, telegraphic signals; telegraphic art; telegraphic
intelligence.

TELEGRAPHICAL
Tel`e*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Telegraphic.
 -- Tel`e*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

TELEGRAPHIST
Te*leg"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One skilled in telegraphy; a telegrapher.

TELEGRAPHONE
Te*leg"ra*phone, n. [Gr. th e far + -graph +  sound.]

Defn: An instrument for recording and reproducing sound by local
magnetization of a steel wire, disk, or ribbon, moved against the
pole of a magnet connected electrically with a telephone receiver, or
the like.

TELEGRAPHOSCOPE
Tel`e*graph"o*scope, n. [Gr. th e  far + -graph + -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for telegraphically transmitting a picture and
reproducing its image as a positive or negative. The transmitter
includes a camera obscura and a row of minute selenium cells. The
receiver includes an oscillograph, ralay, equilibrator, and an
induction coil the sparks from which perforate a paper with tiny
holes that form the image.

TELEGRAPH PLANT
Telegraph plant.

Defn: An East Indian tick trefoil (Meibomia gyrans), whose lateral
leaflets jerk up and down like the arms of a semaphore, and also
rotate on their axes.

TELEGRAPHY
Te*leg"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. telegraphie.]

Defn: The science or art of constructing, or of communicating by
means of, telegraphs; as, submarine telegraphy.

TELEHYDROBAROMETER
Tel`e*hy`dro*ba*rom"e*ter, n. [Gr. th e far + hydrobarometer.]

Defn: An instrument for indicating the level of water in a distant
tank or reservior.

TELE-ICONOGRAPH
Tel`e-i*con"o*graph, n. [Gr. th e far + iconograph.]

1. An instrument essentially the same as the telemetrograph.

2.  A form of facsimile telegraph.

TEL-EL-AMARNA
Tel`-el-A*mar"na, n. [Ar., hill of Amarna.]

Defn: A station on the Nile, midway between Thebes and Memphis,
forming the site of the capital of Amenophis IV., whose archive
chamber was discovered there in 1887. A collection of tablets (called
the Tel-el-Amarna, or the Amarna, tablets) was found here, forming
the Asiatic correspondence (Tel-el-Amarna letters) of Amenophis IV.
and his father, Amenophis III., written in cuneiform characters. It
is an important source of our knowledge of Asia from about 1400 to
1370 b. c..

TELELECTRIC
Tel`e*lec"tric, a. [Gr. th e far + electric.] (Elec.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to transmission, as of music, to a distance by
electricity.

TELELECTROSCOPE
Tel`e*lec"tro*scope, n. [Gr. th e far + electro- + -scope.]

Defn: Any apparatus for making distant objects visible by the aid of
electric transmission.

TELEMECHANIC
Tel`e*me*chan"ic, a. [Gr. th e far + mechanic.]

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, any device for operating mechanisms
at a distance. --Tel`e*mech"a*nism (#), n.

TELEMETEOROGRAPH
Tel`e*me`te*or"o*graph, n. [Gr. th e far + meteorograph.]

Defn: Any apparatus recording meteorological phenomena at a distance
from the measuring apparatus, as by electricity or by compressed air;
esp., an apparatus recording conditions at many distant stations at a
central office. -- Tel`e*me`te*or*o*graph"ic (#), a.

TELEMETER
Te*lem"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.]

Defn: An instrument used for measuring the distance of an object from
an observer; as, a telescope with a micrometer for measuring the
apparent diameter of an object whose real dimensions are known.

TELEMETROGRAPH
Tel`e*met"ro*graph, n. [Gr. th e far + me`tron measure + -graph.]

Defn: A combination of the camera lucida and telescope for drawing
and measuring distant objects. -- Tel`e*me*trog"ra*phy (#), n. --
Tel`e*met`ro*graph"ic (#), a.

TELEMOTOR
Tel`e*mo"tor, n. [Gr. th e far + motor.] (Naut.)

Defn: A hydraulic device by which the movement of the wheel on the
bridge operates the steering gear at the stern.

TELENERGY
Tel*en"er*gy, n. [Gr. th e far + energy.]

Defn: Display of force or energy at a distance, or without contact; -
- applied to mediumistic phenomena. -- Tel`en*er"gic (#), a.

TELENGISCOPE
Te*len"gi*scope, n. [Gr. th e far +  near + -scope.] (Optics)

Defn: An instrument of such focal length that it may be used as an
observing telescope for objects close at hand or as a long-focused
microscope.

TELEOCEPHIAL
Te`le*o*ceph"i*al, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An extensive order of bony fishes including most of the common
market species, as bass, salmon, cod, perch, etc.

TELEOLOGICAL
Te`le*o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. teleologique.] (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to teleology, or the doctrine of design.
 -- Te`le*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

TELEOLOGIST
Te`le*ol"o*gist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: One versed in teleology.

TELEOLOGY
Te`le*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. teleos, the end or issue + -logy: cf. F.
teleologie.]

Defn: The doctrine of the final causes of things; specif. (Biol.),

Defn: the doctrine of design, which assumes that the phenomena of
organic life, particularly those of evolution, are explicable only by
purposive causes, and that they in no way admit of a mechanical
explanation or one based entirely on biological science; the doctrine
of adaptation to purpose.

TELEOPHORE
Te"le*o*phore`, n. Etym: [Gr. teleos complete + (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Gonotheca.

TELEORGANIC
Te`le*or*gan"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. teleos complete + E. organic.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Vital; as, teleorganic functions.

TELEOSAUR
Te`le*o*saur", n. (Paleon.)

Defn: Any one of several species of fossil suarians belonging to
Teleosaurus and allied genera. These reptiles are related to the
crocodiles, but have biconcave vertebr?.

TELEOSAURUS
Te`le*o*sau"rus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of extinct crocodilian reptiles of the Jurassic period,
having a long and slender snout.

TELEOST
Te"le*ost, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Teleosti. Also used adjectively.

TELEOSTEAN
Te`le*os"te*an, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the teleosts.
 -- n.

Defn: A teleostean fish.

TELEOSTEI
Te`le*os"te*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A subclass of fishes including all the ordinary bony fishes as
distinguished from the ganoids.

TELEOSTOMI
Te"le*os`to*mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An extensive division of fishes including the ordinary fishes
(Teleostei) and the ganoids.

TELEOZOIC
Te`le*o*zo"ic, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having tissued composed of cells.

TELEOZOON; TELEOZOOEN
Te*le*o*zo"on, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A metazoan.

TELEPATHY
Te*lep"a*thy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: The sympathetic affection of one mind by the thoughts,
feelings, or emotions of another at a distance, without communication
through the ordinary channels of sensation.
 -- Tel`e*path"ic, a.
 -- Te*lep"a*thist, n.

TELEPHEME
Tel"e*pheme, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A message by a telephone. [Recent]

TELEPHONE
Tel"e*phone, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for reproducing sounds, especially articulate
speech, at a distance.

Note: The ordinary telephone consists essentially of a device by
which currents of electricity, produced by sounds through the agency
of certain mechanical devices and exactly corresponding in duration
and intensity to the vibrations of the air which attend them, are
transmitted to a distant station, and there, acting on suitable
mechanism, reproduce similar sounds by repeating the vibrations. The
necessary variations in the electrical currents are usually produced
by means of a microphone attached to a thin diaphragm upon which the
voice acts, and are intensified by means of an induction coil. In the
magnetic telephone, or magneto-telephone, the diaphragm is of soft
iron placed close to the pole of a magnet upon which is wound a coil
of fine wire, and its vibrations produce corresponding vibrable
currents in the wire by induction. The mechanical, or string,
telephone is a device in which the voice or sound causes vibrations
in a thin diaphragm, which are directly transmitted along a wire or
string connecting it to a similar diaphragm at the remote station,
thus reproducing the sound. It does not employ electricity.

TELEPHONE
Tel"e*phone, v. t.

Defn: To convey or announce by telephone.

TELEPHONE EXCHANGE
Tel`e*phone ex*change".

Defn: A central office in which the wires of telephones may be
connected to permit conversation.

TELEPHONIC
Tel`e*phon"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. telephonique. See Telephone.]

1. Conveying sound to a great distance.

2. Of or pertaining to the telephone; by the telephone.

TELEPHONICALLY
Tel`e*phon"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By telephonic means or processes; by the use of the telephone.

TELEPHONY
Te*leph"o*ny, n.

Defn: The art or process of reproducing sounds at a distance, as with
the telephone.

TELEPHOTE
Tel"e*phote, n. [Gr. th e far + fw^s, fwto`s, light.]

Defn: A telelectric apparatus for producing images of visible objects
at a distance.

TELEPHOTO
Tel`e*pho"to, a.

Defn: Telephotographic; specif., designating a lens consisting of a
combination of lenses specially designed to give a large image of a
distant object in a camera of relatively short focal length.

TELEPHOTOGRAPH
Tel`e*pho"to*graph, n. [Gr. th e far + photograph.]

Defn: A photograph, image, or impression, reproduced by or taken with
a telephotographic apparatus.

TELEPHOTOGRAPHIC
Tel`e*pho`to*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Designating, or pertaining to, the process of telephotography.

TELEPHOTOGRAPHY
Tel`e*pho*tog"ra*phy, n.

1. The photography of distant objects in more enlarged form than is
possible by the ordinary means, usually by a camera provided with a
telephoto lens or mounted in place of the eyepiece of a telescope, so
that the real or a magnified image falls on the sensitive plate.

2.  Art or process of electrically transmitting and reproducing
photographic or other pictures at a distance by methods similar to
those used in electric telegraphy.

3.  Less properly, phototelegraphy.

TELEPOLARISCOPE
Tel`e*po*lar"i*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. polariscope.] (Opt.)

Defn: A polariscope arranged to be attached to a telescope. Lockyer.

TELERYTHIN
Tel`e*ryth"in, n. Etym: [Gr. erythrin.] (Chem.)

Defn: A red crystalline compound related to, or produced from,
erythrin. So called because regarded as the end of the series of
erythrin compounds.

TELESCOPE
Tel"e*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. telescope. See Telegraph, and -scope.]

Defn: An optical instrument used in viewing distant objects, as the
heavenly bodies.

Note: A telescope assists the eye chiefly in two ways; first, by
enlarging the visual angle under which a distant object is seen, and
thus magnifying that object; and, secondly, by collecting, and
conveying to the eye, a larger beam of light than would enter the
naked organ, thus rendering objects distinct and visible which would
otherwise be indistinct and or invisible. Its essential parts are the
object glass, or concave mirror, which collects the beam of light,
and forms an image of the object, and the eyeglass, which is a
microscope, by which the image is magnified. Achromatic telescope.
See under Achromatic.
 -- Aplanatic telescope, a telescope having an aplanatic eyepiece.
 -- Astronomical telescope, a telescope which has a simple eyepiece
so constructed or used as not to reverse the image formed by the
object glass, and consequently exhibits objects inverted, which is
not a hindrance in astronomical observations.
 -- Cassegrainian telescope, a reflecting telescope invented by
Cassegrain, which differs from the Gregorian only in having the
secondary speculum convex instead of concave, and placed nearer the
large speculum. The Cassegrainian represents objects inverted; the
Gregorian, in their natural position. The Melbourne telescope (see
Illust. under Reflecting telescope, below) is a Cassegrainian
telescope.
 -- Dialytic telescope. See under Dialytic. Equatorial telescope. See
the Note under Equatorial.
 -- Galilean telescope, a refracting telescope in which the eyeglass
is a concave instead of a convex lens, as in the common opera glass.
This was the construction originally adopted by Galileo, the inventor
of the instrument. It exhibits the objects erect, that is, in their
natural positions.
 -- Gregorian telescope, a form of reflecting telescope. See under
Gregorian.
 -- Herschelian telescope, a reflecting telescope of the form
invented by Sir William Herschel, in which only one speculum is
employed, by means of which an image of the object is formed near one
side of the open end of the tube, and to this the eyeglass is applied
directly.
 -- Newtonian telescope, a form of reflecting telescope. See under
Newtonian.
 -- Photographic telescope, a telescope specially constructed to make
photographs of the heavenly bodies.
 -- Prism telescope. See Teinoscope.
 -- Reflecting telescope, a telescope in which the image is formed by
a speculum or mirror (or usually by two speculums, a large one at the
lower end of the telescope, and the smaller one near the open end)
instead of an object glass. See Gregorian, Cassegrainian,
Herschelian, and Newtonian, telescopes, above.
 -- Refracting telescope, a telescope in which the image is formed by
refraction through an object glass.
 -- Telescope carp (Zool.), the telescope fish.
 -- Telescope fish (Zool.), a monstrous variety of the goldfish
having very protuberant eyes.
 -- Telescope fly (Zool.), any two-winged fly of the genus Diopsis,
native of Africa and Asia. The telescope flies are remarkable for
having the eyes raised on very long stalks.
 -- Telescope shell (Zool.), an elongated gastropod (Cerithium
telescopium) having numerous flattened whorls.
 -- Telescope sight (Firearms), a slender telescope attached to the
barrel, having cross wires in the eyepiece and used as a sight.
 -- Terrestrial telescope, a telescope whose eyepiece has one or two
lenses more than the astronomical, for the purpose of inverting the
image, and exhibiting objects erect.

TELESCOPE
Tel"e*scope, a. [imp. & p. p. Telescoped; p. pr. & vb. n.
Telescoping.]

Defn: To slide or pass one within another, after the manner of the
sections of a small telescope or spyglass; to come into collision, as
railway cars, in such a manner that one runs into another. [Recent]

TELESCOPE
Tel"e*scope, v. t.

Defn: To cause to come into collision, so as to telescope. [Recent]

TELESCOPE BAG
Telescope bag.

Defn: An adjustable traveling bag consisting of two cases, the larger
slipping over the other.

TELESCOPIC; TELESCOPICAL
Tel`e*scop"ic, Tel`e*scop"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. telescopique.]

1. Of or pertaining to a telescope; performed by a telescope.

2. Seen or discoverable only by a telescope; as, telescopic stars.

3. Able to discern objects at a distance; farseeing; far-reaching;
as, a telescopic eye; telescopic vision.

4. Having the power of extension by joints sliding one within
another, like the tube of a small telescope or a spyglass; especially
(Mach.), constructed of concentric tubes, either stationary, as in
the telescopic boiler, or movable, as in the telescopic chimney of a
war vessel, which may be put out of sight by being lowered endwise.

TELESCOPICALLY
Tel`e*scop"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a telescopical manner; by or with the telescope.

TELESCOPIC SIGHT
Tel`e*scop"ic sight`.

Defn: A sight consisting of a small telescope, as on a compass or
rifle.

TELESCOPIST
Te*les"co*pist, n.

Defn: One who uses a telescope. R. A. Proctor.

TELESCOPY
Te*les"co*py, n.

Defn: The art or practice of using or making telescopes.

TELESEISM
Tel"e*seism, n. [Gr. th e far +  shock.]

Defn: A seismic movement or shock far from the  recording instrument.
-- Tel`e*seis"mic (#), a.

TELESEME
Tel"e*seme, n. [Gr. th e far +  sign.]

Defn: A system of apparatus for electric signals providing for
automatic transmission of a definite number of different signals or
calls, as in connection with hotel annunciators.

TELESM
Tel"esm, n. Etym: [Ar. tilism. See Talisman.]

Defn: A kind of amulet or magical charm. [Obs.] J. Gregory.

TELESMATIC; TELESMATICAL
Tel`es*mat"ic, Tel`es*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to telesms; magical. J. Gregory.

TELESPECTROSCOPE
Tel`e*spec"tro*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. spectroscope.] (Astron.)

Defn: A spectroscope arranged to be attached to a telescope for
observation of distant objects, as the sun or stars. Lockyer.

TELESTEREOGRAPH
Tel`e*ste"re*o*graph`, n. [Gr. th e far + stereograph.]

Defn: An instrument for telegraphically reproducing a photograph. --
Tel`e*ste`re*og"ra*phy (#), n.

TELESTEREOSCOPE
Tel`e*ste"re*o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. stereoscope.] (Opt.)

Defn: A stereoscope adapted to view distant natural objects or
landscapes; a telescopic stereoscope.

TELESTIC
Te*les"tic, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Tending or relating to a purpose or an end. [R.] Cudworth.

TELESTICH
Te*les"tich, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A poem in which the final letters of the lines, taken
consequently, make a name. Cf. Acrostic.

TELETHERMOGRAPH
Tel`e*ther"mo*graph, n. [Gr. th e far + thermo- + -graph.] (Physics)
 (a) A record of fluctuations of temperature made automatically at a
distant station.
 (b) An instrument, usually electrical, making such records.

TELETHERMOMETER
Tel`e*ther*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. thermometer.] (Physics)

Defn: An apparatus for determining the temperature of a distant
point, as by a thermoelectric circuit or otherwise.

TELEUTOSPORE
Te*leu"to*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: The thick-celled winter or resting spore of the rusts (order
Uredinales), produced in late summer. See Illust. of Uredospore.

TELFORD
Tel"ford, a. [After Thomas Telford, a Scotch road engineer.]

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, a road pavement having a surface of
small stone rolled hard and smooth, distinguished from macadam road
by its firm foundation of large stones with fragments of stone wedged
tightly, in the interstices; as, telford pavement, road, etc.

TELFORDIZE
Tel"ford*ize, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Telfordized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Telfordizing.]

Defn: To furnish (a road) with a telford pavement.

TELHARMONIC
Tel`har*mon"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to telharmonium.

TELHARMONIUM; TELHARMONY
Tel`har*mo"ni*um, n. [Gr. th e far + harmolium.]

Defn: An instrument for producing music (Tel*har"mo*ny []), at a
distant point or points by means of alternating currents of
electricity controlled by an operator who plays on a keyboard. The
music is produced by a receiving instrument similar or analogous to
the telephone, but not held to the ear. The pitch corresponds with
frequency of alternation of current.

TELIC
Tel"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. (Gram.)

Defn: Denoting the final end or purpose, as distinguished from
ecbatic. See Ecbatic. Gibbs.

TELL
Tell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Told; p. pr. & vb. n. Telling.] Etym: [AS.
tellan, from talu tale, number, speech; akin to D. tellen to count,
G. zahlen, OHG. zellen to count, tell, say, Icel. telja, Dan. tale to
speak, t?lle to count. See Tale that which is told.]

1. To mention one by one, or piece by piece; to recount; to
enumerate; to reckon; to number; to count; as, to tell money. "An
heap of coin he told." Spenser.
He telleth the number of the stars. Ps. cxlvii. 4.
Tell the joints of the body. Jer. Taylor.

2. To utter or recite in detail; to give an account of; to narrate.
Of which I shall tell all the array. Chaucer.
And not a man appears to tell their fate. Pope.

3. To make known; to publish; to disclose; to divulge.
Why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife Gen. xii. 18.

4. To give instruction to; to make report to; to acquaint; to teach;
to inform.
A secret pilgrimage, That you to-day promised to tell me of Shak.

5. To order; to request; to command.
He told her not to be frightened. Dickens.

6. To discern so as to report; to ascertain by observing; to find
out; to discover; as, I can not tell where one color ends and the
other begins.

7. To make account of; to regard; to reckon; to value; to estimate.
[Obs.]
I ne told no dainity of her love. Chaucer.

Note: Tell, though equivalent in some respect to speak and say, has
not always the same application. We say, to tell truth or falsehood,
to tell a number, to tell the reasons, to tell something or nothing;
but we never say, to tell a speech, discourse, or oration, or to tell
an argument or a lesson. It is much used in commands; as, tell me the
whole story; tell me all you know. To tell off, to count; to divide.
Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- To communicate; impart; reveal; disclose; inform; acquaint;
report; repeat; rehearse; recite.

TELL
Tell, v. i.

1. To give an account; to make report.
That I may publish with the voice of thankgiving, and tell of all thy
wondrous works. Ps. xxvi. 7.

2. To take effect; to produce a marked effect; as, every shot tells;
every expression tells. To tell of. (a) To speak of; to mention; to
narrate or describe. (b) To inform against; to disclose some fault
of.
 -- To tell on, to inform against. [Archaic & Colloq.]
Lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David. 1 Sam. xxvii. 11.

TELL
Tell, n.

Defn: That which is told; tale; account. [R.]
I am at the end of my tell. Walpole.

TELL
Tell, n. Etym: [Ar.]

Defn: A hill or mound. W. M. Thomson.

TELLABLE
Tell"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being told.

TELLEN
Tel"len, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of Tellina.

TELLER
Tell"er, n.

1. One who tells, relates, or communicates; an informer, narrator, or
describer.

2. One of four officers of the English Exchequer, formerly appointed
to receive moneys due to the king and to pay moneys payable by the
king. Cowell.

3. An officer of a bank who receives and counts over money paid in,
and pays money out on checks.

4. One who is appointed to count the votes given in a legislative
body, public meeting, assembly, etc.

TELLERSHIP
Tell"er*ship, n.

Defn: The office or employment of a teller.

TELLINA
Tel*li"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of marine bivalve mollusks having thin, delicate, and
often handsomely colored shells.

TELLING
Tell"ing, a.

Defn: Operating with great effect; effective; as, a telling speech.
 -- Tell"ing*ly, adv.

TELLTALE
Tell"tale`, a.

Defn: Telling tales; babbling. "The telltale heart." Poe.

TELLTALE
Tell"tale`, n.

1. One who officiously communicates information of the private
concerns of others; one who tells that which prudence should
suppress.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A movable piece of ivory, lead, or other material, connected
with the bellows of an organ, that gives notice, by its position,
when the wind is exhausted.

3. (Naut.)
(a) A mechanical attachment to the steering wheel, which, in the
absence of a tiller, shows the position of the helm.
(b) A compass in the cabin of a vessel, usually placed where the
captain can see it at all hours, and thus inform himself of the
vessel's course.

4. (Mach.)

Defn: A machine or contrivance for indicating or recording something,
particularly for keeping a check upon employees, as factory hands,
watchmen, drivers, check takers, and the like, by revealing to their
employers what they have done or omitted.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: The tattler. See Tattler.

TELLURAL
Tel*lu"ral, a. Etym: [L. tellus, -uris, the earth.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the earth. [R.]

TELLURATE
Tel"lu*rate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. tellurate. See Tellurium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of telluric acid.

TELLURET
Tel"lu*ret, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A telluride. [Obsoles.]

TELLURETED
Tel"lu*ret`ed, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with tellurium; tellurized. [Written
also telluretted.] [Obsoles.] Tellureted hydrogen (Chem.), hydrogen
telluride, H2Te, a gaseous substance analogous to hydrogen sulphide;
-- called also tellurhydric acid.

TELLURHYDRIC
Tel`lur*hy"dric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen telluride, which is
regarded as an acid, especially when in solution.

TELLURIAN
Tel*lu"ri*an, a. Etym: [L. tellus, -uris, the earth.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the earth. De Quincey.

TELLURIAN
Tel*lu"ri*an, n.

1. A dweller on the earth. De Quincey.

2. An instrument for showing the operation of the causes which
produce the succession of day and night, and the changes of the
seasons. [Written also tellurion.]

TELLURIC
Tel*lu"ric, a. Etym: [L. tellus, -uris, the earth: cf. F.
tellurique.]

1. Of or pertaining to the earth; proceeding from the earth.
Amid these hot, telluric flames. Carlyle.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or resembling,
tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the
element has a higher valence as contrasted with tellurous compounds;
as, telluric acid, which is analogous to sulphuric acid. Telluric
bismuth (Min.), tetradymite.
 -- Telluric silver (Min.), hessite.

TELLURIDE
Tel"lu*ride, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of tellurium with a more positive element or
radical; -- formerly called telluret.

TELLURISM
Tel"lu*rism, n.

Defn: An hypothesis of animal magnetism propounded by Dr. Keiser, in
Germany, in which the phenomena are ascribed to the agency of a
telluric spirit or influence. [R.] S. Thompson.

TELLURITE
Tel"lu*rite, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of tellurous acid.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Oxide of tellurium. It occurs sparingly in tufts of white or
yellowish crystals.

TELLURIUM
Tel*lu"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., from L. tellus, -uris, the earth.]
(Chem.)

Defn: A rare nonmetallic element, analogous to sulphur and selenium,
occasionally found native as a substance of a silver-white metallic
luster, but usually combined with metals, as with gold and silver in
the mineral sylvanite, with mercury in Coloradoite, etc. Symbol Te.
Atomic weight 125.2. Graphic tellurium. (Min.) See Sylvanite.
 -- Tellurium glance (Min.), nagyagite; -- called also black
tellurium.

TELLURIZE
Tel"lu*rize, v. t. (Chem.)

Defn: To impregnate with, or to subject to the action of, tellurium;
-- chiefly used adjectively in the past participle; as, tellurized
ores.

TELLUROUS
Tel"lu*rous, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to tellurium; derived from, or containing,
tellurium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the
element has a lower valence as contrasted with telluric compounds;
as, tellurous acid, which is analogous to sulphurous acid.

TELODYNAMIC
Tel`o*dy*nam"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. dynamic.]

Defn: Relating to a system for transmitting power to a distance by
means of swiftly moving ropes or cables driving grooved pulleys of
large diameter.

TELOOGOO
Tel`oo*goo", n.

Defn: See Telugu. D. O. Allen.

TELOTROCHA
Te*lot"ro*cha, n.; pl. Telotroch?. Etym: [NL. See Telotrochal.]
(Zool.)

Defn: An annelid larva having telotrochal bands of cilia.

TELOTROCHAL; TELOTROCHOUS
Te*lot"ro*chal, Te*lot"ro*chous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Having both a preoral and a posterior band of cilla; -- applied
to the larv? of certain annelids.

TELOTYPE
Tel"o*type, n. Etym: [Gr. -type.]

Defn: An electric telegraph which prints the messages in letters and
not in signs.

TELPHER
Tel"pher, n. Etym: [Gr. (Elec.)

Defn: A contrivance for the conveyance of vehicles or loads by means
of electricity. Fleeming Jenkin. Telpher line, or Telpher road, an
electric line or road over which vehicles for carrying loads are
moved by electric engines actuated by a current conveyed by the line.

TELPHERAGE
Tel"pher*age, n.

Defn: The conveyance of vehicles or loads by means of electricity.
Fleeming Jenkin.

TELSON
Tel"son, n.; pl. Telsons. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: The terminal joint or movable piece at the end of the abdomen
of Crustacea and other articulates. See Thoracostraca.

TELUGU
Tel`u*gu", n.

1. A Darvidian language spoken in the northern parts of the Madras
presidency. In extent of use it is the next language after Hindustani
(in its various forms) and Bengali. [Spelt also Teloogoo.]

2. One of the people speaking the Telugu language.

TELUGU
Tel`u*gu", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Telugu language, or the Telugus.

TEMBLOR
Tem*blor", n. [Sp.]

Defn: An earthquake. [Western U. S.]

TEMERARIOUS
Tem`er*a"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. temerarius. See Temerity.]

Defn: Unreasonably adventurous; despising danger; rash; headstrong;
audacious; reckless; heedless.
 -- Tem`er*a"ri*ous*ly, adv.
I spake against temerarious judgment. Latimer.

TEMERATION
Tem`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. temerare to defile.]

Defn: Temerity. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

TEMERITY
Te*mer"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. temeritas, from temere by chance, rashly;
perhaps akin to Skr. tamas darkness: cf. F. temerite.]
