Defn: A brass wind instrument, like a bass trumpet, so contrived that
it can be lengthened or shortened according to the tone required; --
said to be the same as the trombone. [Written also sagbut.] Moore
(Encyc. of Music).

Note: The sackbut of the Scriptures is supposed to have been a
stringed instrument.

SACKCLOTH
Sack"cloth`, n.

Defn: Linen or cotton cloth such a sacks are made of; coarse cloth;
anciently, a cloth or garment worn in mourning, distress,
mortification, or penitence.
Gird you with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. 2 Sam. iii. 31.
Thus with sackcloth I invest my woe. Sandys.

SACKCLOTHED
sack"clothed`, a.

Defn: Clothed in sackcloth.

SACKER
Sack"er, n.

Defn: One who sacks; one who takes part in the storm and pillage of a
town.

SACKFUL
Sack"ful, n.; pl. Sackfuls (.

Defn: As much as a sack will hold.

SACKFUL
Sack"ful, a.

Defn: Bent on plunder. [Obs.] Chapman.

SACKING
Sack"ing, n. Etym: [AS. s?ccing, from s?cc sack, bag.]

Defn: Stout, coarse cloth of which sacks, bags, etc., are made.

SACKLESS
Sack"less, a. Etym: [AS. sacleas; sacu contention + leas loose, free
from.]

Defn: Quiet; peaceable; harmless; innocent. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SACK-WINGED
Sack"-winged`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a peculiar pouch developed near the front edge of the
wing; -- said of certain bats of the genus Saccopteryx.

SACQUE
Sacque, n. Etym: [Formed after the analogy of the French. See 2d
Sack.]

Defn: Same as 2d Sack, 3.

SACRAL
Sa"cral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sacrum; in the region of the sacrum.

SACRAMENT
Sac"ra*ment, n. Etym: [L. sacramentum an oath, a sacred thing, a
mystery, a sacrament, fr. sacrare to declare as sacred, sacer sacred:
cf. F. sacrament. See Sacred.]

1. The oath of allegiance taken by Roman soldiers; hence, a sacred
ceremony used to impress an obligation; a solemn oath-taking; an
oath. [Obs.]
I'll take the sacrament on't. Shak.

2. The pledge or token of an oath or solemn cobenant; a sacred thing;
a mystery. [Obs.]
God sometimes sent a light of fire, and pillar of a cloud . . . and
the sacrament of a rainbow, to guide his people through their portion
of sorrows. Jer. Taylor.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: One of the solemn religious ordinances enjoined by Christ, the
head of the Christian church, to be observed by his followers; hence,
specifically, the eucharist; the Lord's Supper.

Syn.
 -- Sacrament, Eucharist.
 -- Protestants apply the term sacrament to baptism and the Lord's
Supper, especially the latter. The R. Cath. and Greek churches have
five other sacraments, viz., confirmation, penance, holy orders,
matrimony, and extreme unction. As sacrament denotes an oath or vow,
the word has been applied by way of emphasis to the Lord's Supper,
where the most sacred vows are renewed by the Christian in
commemorating the death of his Redeemer. Eucharist denotes the giving
of thanks; and this term also has been applied to the same ordinance,
as expressing the grateful remembrance of Christ's sufferings and
death. "Some receive the sacrament as a means to procure great graces
and blessings; others as an eucharist and an office of thanksgiving
for what they have received." Jer. Taylor.

SACRAMENT
Sac"ra*ment, v. t.

Defn: To bind by an oath. [Obs.] Laud.

SACRAMENTAL
Sac`ra*men"tal, a. Etym: [L. sacramentalis: cf. F. sacramental,
sacramentel.]

1. Of or pertaining to a sacrament or the sacraments; of the nature
of a sacrament; sacredly or solemny binding; as, sacramental rites or
elements.

2. Bound by a sacrament.
The sacramental host of God's elect. Cowper.

SACRAMENTAL
Sac`ra*men"tal, n.

Defn: That which relates to a sacrament. Bp. Morton.

SACRAMENTALISM
Sac`ra*men"tal*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine and use of sacraments; attashment of excessive
importance to sacraments.

SACRAMENTALIST
Sac`ra*men"tal*ist, n.

Defn: One who holds the doctrine of the real objective presence of
Christ;s body and blood in the holy eucharist. Shipley.

SACRAMENTALLY
Sac`ra*men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sacrament manner.

SACRAMENTARIAN
Sac`ra*men*ta"ri*an, n. Etym: [LL. sacramentarius: cf. F.
sacramentaire.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A name given in the sixteenth century to those German reformers
who rejected both the Roman and the Lutheran doctrine of the holy
eucharist.

2. One who holds extreme opinions regarding the efficacy of
sacraments.

SACRAMENTARIAN
Sac`ra*men*ta"ri*an, a.

1. Of or pertaining a sacrament, or to the sacramentals; sacramental.

2. Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.

SACRAMENTARY
Sac`ra*men"ta*ry, a.

1. Of or pertaining a sacrament or the sacraments; sacramental.

2. Of or pertaining to the Sacramentarians.

SACRAMENTARY
Sac`ra*men"ta*ry, n.; pl. -ries. Etym: [LL. sacramentarium: cf. F.
sacramentaire.]

1. An ancient book of the Roman Catholic Church, written by Pope
Gelasius, and revised, corrected, and abridged by St. Gregory, in
which were contained the rites for Mass, the sacraments, the
dedication of churches, and other ceremonies. There are several
ancient books of the same kind in France and Germany.

2. Same as Sacramentarian, n., 1.
Papists, Anabaptists, and Sacramentaries. Jer. Taylor.

SACRAMENTIZE
Sac"ra*ment*ize, v. i.

Defn: To administer the sacraments. [R.]
Both to preach and sacramentize. Fuller.

SACRARIUM
Sa*cra"ri*um, n.; pl. -ria. Etym: [L., fr. sacer sacred.]

1. A sort of family chapel in the houses of the Romans, devoted to a
special divinity.

2. The adytum of a temple. Gwilt.

3. In a Christian church, the sanctuary.

SACRATE
Sa"crate, v. t. Etym: [L. sacratus, p.p. of sacrare. See Sacred.]

Defn: To consecrate. [Obs.]

SACRATION
Sa*cra"tion, n.

Defn: Consecration. [Obs.]

SACRE
Sa"cre, n.

Defn: See Sakker.

SACRE
Sa"cre, v. t. Etym: [F. sacrer. See Sacred.]

Defn: To consecrate; to make sacred. [Obs.] Holland.

SACRED
Sa"cred, a. Etym: [Originally p.p. of OE. sacren to consecrate, F.
sacrer, fr. L. sacrare, fr. sacer sacred, holy, cursed. Cf.
Consecrate, Execrate, Saint, Sextion.]

1. Set apart by solemn religious ceremony; especially, in a good
sense, made holy; set apart to religious use; consecrated; not
profane or common; as, a sacred place; a sacred day; sacred service.

2. Relating to religion, or to the services of religion; not secular;
religious; as, sacred history.
Smit with the love of sacred song. Milton.

3. Designated or exalted by a divine sanction; possessing the highest
title to obedience, honor, reverence, or veneration; entitled to
extreme reverence; venerable.
Such neighbor nearness to our sacred [royal] blood Should nothing
privilege him. Shak.
Poet and saint to thee alone were given, The two most sacred names of
earth and heaven. Cowley.

4. Hence, not to be profaned or violated; inviolable.
Secrets of marriage still are sacred held. Dryden.

5. Consecrated; dedicated; devoted; -- with to.
A temple, sacred to the queen oflove. Dryden.

6. Solemnly devoted, in a bad sense, as to evil, vengeance, curse, or
the like; accursed; baleful. [Archaic]
But, to destruction sacred and devote. Milton.

Society of the Sacred Heart (R.C. Ch.), a religious order of women,
founded in France in 1800, and approved in 1826. It was introduced
into America in 1817. The members of the order devote themselves to
the higher branches of female education.
 -- Sacred baboon. (Zool.) See Hamadryas.
 -- Sacred bean (Bot.), a seed of the Oriental lotus (Nelumbo
speciosa or Nelimbium speciosum), a plant resembling a water lily;
also, the plant itself. See Lotus.
 -- Sacred beetle (Zool.) See Scarab.
 -- Sacred canon. See Canon, n., 3.
 -- Sacred fish (Zool.), any one of fresh-water African fishes of the
family Mormyrid?. Several large species inhabit the Nile and were
considered sacred by the ancient Egyptians; especially Mormyris
oxyrhynchus.
 -- Sacred ibis. See Ibis.
 -- Sacred monkey. (Zool.) (a) Any Asiatic monkey of the genus
Semnopitchecus, regarded as sacred by the Hindoos; especially, the
entellus. See Entellus. (b) The sacred baboon. See Hamadryas. (c) The
blunder monkey.
 -- Sacred place (Civil Law), the place where a deceased person is
buried.

Syn.
 -- Holy; divine; hallowed; consecrated; dedicated; devoted;
religious; venerable; reverend.
 -- Sa"cred*ly, adv.
 -- Sa"cred*ness, n.

SACRIFIC; SACRIFICAL
Sacrif"ic, Sa*crif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. sacrificus, sacrificalis. See
Sacrifice.]

Defn: Employed in sacrifice. [R.] Johnson.

SACRIFICABLE
Sa*crif"ic*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being offered in sacrifice. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

SACRIFICANT
Sa*crif"ic*ant, n. Etym: [L. sacrificans, p.pr. See Sacrifice.]

Defn: One who offers a sacrifice. [R.]

SACRIFICATOR
Sac"ri*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A sacrificer; one who offers a sacrifice. [R.] Sir T. Browne.

SACRIFICATORY
Sa*crif"ic`a*to*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sacrificatoire.]

Defn: Offering sacrifice. [R.] Sherwood.

SACRIFICE
Sac"ri*fice, n. Etym: [OE. sacrifise, sacrifice, F. sacrifice, fr. L.
sacrificium; sacer sacer + facere to make. See Sacred, and Fact.]

1. The offering of anything to God, or to a god; consecratory rite.
Great pomp, and sacrifice, and praises loud, To Dagon. Milton.

2. Anything consecrated and offered to God, or to a divinity; an
immolated victin, or an offering of any kind, laid upon an altar, or
otherwise presented in the way of religious thanksgiving, atonement,
or conciliation.
Moloch, horrid king, besmeared with blood Of human sacrifice. Milton.
My life, if thou preserv's my life, Thy sacrifice shall be. Addison.

3. Destruction or surrender of anything for the sake of something
else; devotion of some desirable object in behalf of a higher object,
or to a claim deemed more pressing; hence, also, the thing so devoted
or given up; as, the sacrifice of interest to pleasure, or of
pleasure to interest.

4. A sale at a price less than the cost or the actual value.
[Tradesmen's Cant] Burnt sacrifice. See Burnt offering, under Burnt.
 -- Sacrifice hit (Baseball), in batting, a hit of such a kind that
the batter loses his chance of tallying, but enables one or more who
are on bases to get home or gain a base.

SACRIFICE
Sac"ri*fice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sacrificed (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sacrificing (.] Etym: [From Sacrifice, n.: cf. F. sacrifier, L.
sacrificare; sacer sacred, holy + -ficare (only in comp.) to make.
See -fy.]

1. To make an offering of; to consecrate or present to a divinity by
way of expiation or propitiation, or as a token acknowledgment or
thanksgiving; to immolate on the altar of God, in order to atone for
sin, to procure favor, or to express thankfulness; as, to sacrifice
an ox or a sheep.
Oft sacrificing bullock, lamb, or kid. Milton.

2. Hence, to destroy, surrender, or suffer to be lost, for the sake
of obtaining something; to give up in favor of a higher or more
imperative object or duty; to devote, with loss or suffering.
Condemned to sacrifice his childish years To babbling ignorance, and
to empty fears. Prior.
The Baronet had sacrificed a large sum . . . for the sake of . . .
making this boy his heir. G. Eliot.

3. To destroy; to kill. Johnson.

4. To sell at a price less than the cost or the actual value.
[Tradesmen's Cant]

SACRIFICE
Sac"ri*fice, v. i.

Defn: To make offerings to God, or to a deity, of things consumed on
the altar; to offer sacrifice.
O teacher, some great mischief hath befallen To that meek man, who
well had sacrificed. Milton.

SACRIFICER
Sac"ri*fi`cer, n.

Defn: One who sacrifices.

SACRIFICIAL
Sac`ri*fi"cial, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sacrifice or sacrifices; consisting in
sacrifice; performing sacrifice. "Sacrificial rites." Jer. Taylor.

SACRILEGE
Sac"ri*lege, n. Etym: [F. sacrilege, L. sacrilegium, from sacrilegus
that steals, properly, gathers or picks up, sacred things; sacer
sacred + legere to gather, pick up. See Sacred, and Legend.]

Defn: The sin or crime of violating or profaning sacred things; the
alienating to laymen, or to common purposes, what has been
appropriated or consecrated to religious persons or uses.
And the hid treasures in her sacred tomb With sacrilege to dig.
Spenser.
Families raised upon the ruins of churches, and enriched with the
spoils of sacrilege. South.

SACRILEGIOUS
Sac`ri*le"gious, a. Etym: [From sacrilege: cf. L. sacrilegus.]

Defn: Violating sacred things; polluted with sacrilege; involving
sacrilege; profane; impious.
Above the reach of sacrilegious hands. pope.
-- Sac`ri*le"gious*ly, adv.
 -- Sac`ri*le"gious*ness, n.

SACRILEGIST
Sac"ri*le`gist, n.

Defn: One guilty of sacrilege.

SACRING
Sac"ring,

Defn: a. & n. from Sacre. Sacring bell. See Sanctus bell, under
Sanctus.

SACRIST
Sa"crist, n. Etym: [LL. sacrista. See Sacristan.]

Defn: A sacristan; also, a person retained in a cathedral to copy out
music for the choir, and take care of the books.

SACRISTAN
Sac"ris*tan, n. Etym: [F. sacristian, LL. sacrista, fr. L. sacer. See
Sacred, and cf. Sexton.]

Defn: An officer of the church who has the care of the utensils or
movables, and of the church in general; a sexton.

SACRISTY
Sac"ris*ty, n.; pl. Sacristies. Etym: [F. sacristie, LL. sacristia,
fr. L. sacer. See Sacred.]

Defn: A apartment in a church where the sacred utensils, vestments,
etc., are kept; a vestry.

SACRO-
Sa"cro- (. (Anat.)

Defn: A combining form denoting connection with, or relation to, the
sacrum, as in sacro-coccyageal, sacro-iliac, sacrosciatic.

SACROSANCT
Sac"ro*sanct, a. Etym: [L. sucrosanctus.]

Defn: Sacred; inviolable. [R.] Dr. H. More.

SACROSCIATIC
Sa`cro*sci*at"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to both the sacrum and the hip; as, the
sacrosciatic formina formed by the sacrosciatic ligaments which
connect the sacrum and hip bone.

SACROVERTEBRAL
Sa`cro*ver"te*bral, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sacrum and that part of the vertebral
column immediately anterior to it; as, the sacrovertebral angle.

SACRUM
sa"crum, n.; pl. sacra (. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sacer sacred, os sacrum
the lowest bone of the spine.] (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the vertebral column which is directly connected
with, or forms a part of, the pelvis.

Note: It may consist of a single vertebra or of several more or less
consolidated. In man it forms the dorsal, or posterior, wall of the
pelvis, and consists of five united vertebr?, which diminish in size
very rapidly to the posterior extremity, which bears the coccyx.

SACS
Sacs, n. pl.; sing. Sac (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians, which, together with the Foxes, formerly
occupied the region about Green Bay, Wisconsin. [Written also Sauks.]

SAD
Sad, a. [Compar. Sadder; supperl. Saddest.] Etym: [OE. sad sated,
tired, satisfied, firm, steadfast, AS. s?d satisfied, sated; akin to
D. zat, OS. sad, G. tt, OHG. sat, sa, saddr, Goth. saps, Lith. sotus,
L. sat, satis, enough, satur sated, Gr. Assets, Sate, Satiate,
Satisfy Satire.]

1. Sated; satisfied; weary; tired. [Obs.]
Yet of that art they can not waxen sad, For unto them it is a bitter
sweet. Chaucer.

2. Heavy; weighty; ponderous; close; hard. [Obs., except in a few
phrases; as, sad bread.]
His hand, more sad than lump of lead. Spenser.
Chalky lands are naturally cold and sad. Mortimer.

3. Dull; grave; dark; somber; -- said of colors. "Sad-colored
clothes." Walton.
Woad, or wade, is used by the dyers to lay the foundation of all sad
colors. Mortimer.

4. Serious; grave; sober; steadfast; not light or frivolous. [Obs.]
"Ripe and sad courage." Bacon.
Which treaty was wisely handled by sad and discrete counsel of both
parties. Ld. Berners.

5. Affected with grief or unhappiness; cast down with affliction;
downcast; gloomy; mournful.
First were we sad, fearing you would not come; Now sadder, that you
come so unprovided. Shak.
The angelic guards ascended, mute and sad. Milton.

6. Afflictive; calamitous; causing sorrow; as, a sad accident; a sad
misfortune.

7. Hence, bad; naughty; troublesome; wicked. [Colloq.] "Sad tipsy
fellows, both of them." I. Taylor.

Note: Sad is sometimes used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, sad-colored, sad-eyed, sad-hearted, sad-looking, and
the like. Sad bread, heavy bread. [Scot. & Local, U.S.] Bartlett.

Syn.
 -- Sorrowful; mournful; gloomy; dejected; depressed; cheerless;
downcast; sedate; serious; grave; grievous; afflictive; calamitous.

SAD
Sad, v. t.

Defn: To make sorrowful; to sadden. [Obs.]
How it sadded the minister's spirits! H. Peters.

SADDA
Sad"da, n. Etym: [Per. sad-dar the hundred gates or ways; sad a
hundred + dar door, way.]

Defn: A work in the Persian tongue, being a summary of the Zend-
Avesta, or sacred books.

SADDEN
Sad"den, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saddened; p. pr. & vb. n. Saddening.]

Defn: To make sad. Specifically:
(a) To render heavy or cohesive. [Obs.]
Marl is binding, and saddening of land is the great prejudice it doth
to clay lands. Mortimer.

(b) To make dull- or sad-colored, as cloth.
(c) To make grave or serious; to make melancholy or sorrowful.
Her gloomy presence saddens all the scene. Pope.

SADDEN
Sad"den, v. i.

Defn: To become, or be made, sad. Tennyson.

SADDER
Sad"der, n.

Defn: Same as Sadda.

SADDLE
Sad"dle, n. Etym: [OE. sadel, AS. sadol; akin to D. zadel, G. sattel,
OHG. satal, satul, Icel. soedhull, Dan. & Sw. sadel; cf. Russ.
siedlo; all perh. ultimately from the root of E. sit.]

1. A seat for a rider, -- usually made of leather, padded to span
comfortably a horse's back, furnished with stirrups for the rider's
feet to rest in, and fastened in place with a girth; also, a seat for
the rider on a bicycle or tricycle.

2. A padded part of a harness which is worn on a horse's back, being
fastened in place with a girth. It serves various purposes, as to
keep the breeching in place, carry guides for the reins, etc.

3. A piece of meat containing a part of the backbone of an animal
with the ribs on each side; as, a saddle of mutton, of venison, etc.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A block of wood, usually fastened to some spar, and shaped to
receive the end of another spar.

5. (Mach.)

Defn: A part, as a flange, which is hollowed out to fit upon a convex
surface and serve as a means of attachment or support.

6. (Zool.)

Defn: The clitellus of an earthworm.

7. (Arch.)

Defn: The threshold of a door, when a separate piece from the floor
or landing; -- so called because it spans and covers the joint
between two floors. Saddle bar (Arch.), one the small iron bars to
which the lead panels of a glazed window are secured. Oxf. Gloss.
 -- Saddle gall (Far.), a sore or gall upon a horse's back, made by
the saddle.
 -- Saddle girth, a band passing round the body of a horse to hold
the saddle in its place.
 -- saddle horse, a horse suitable or trained for riding with a
saddle.
 -- Saddle joint, in sheet-metal roofing, a joint formed by bending
up the edge of a sheet and folding it downward over the turned-up
edge of the next sheet.
 -- Saddle roof (Arch.), a roof having two gables and one ridge; --
said of such a roof when used in places where a different form is
more common; as, a tower surmounted by a saddle roof. Called also
saddleback roof.
 -- Saddle shell (Zool.), any thin plicated bivalve shaell of the
genera Placuna and Anomia; -- so called from its shape. Called also
saddle oyster.

SADDLE
Sad"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saddled; p. pr. & vb. n. Saddling.]
Etym: [AS. sadelian.]

1. To put a saddle upon; to equip (a beast) for riding. "saddle my
horse." Shak.
Abraham rose up early saddled his ass. Gen. xxii. 3.

2. Hence: To fix as a charge or burden upon; to load; to encumber;
as, to saddle a town with the expense of bridges and highways.

SADDLEBACK
Sad"dle*back`, a.

Defn: Same as Saddle-backed. Saddleback roof. (Arch.) See Saddle
roof, under Saddle.

SADDLEBACK
Sad"dle*back`, n.

1. Anything saddle-backed; esp., a hill or ridge having a concave
outline at the top.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The harp seal.
(b) The great blackbacked gull (Larus marinus).
(c) The larva of a bombycid moth (Empretia stimulea) which has a
large, bright green, saddle-shaped patch of color on the back.

SADDLE-BACKED
Sad"dle-backed`, a.

1. Having the outline of the upper part concave like the seat of a
saddle.

2. Having a low back and high neck, as a horse.

SADDLEBAGS
Sad"dle*bags, n. pl.

Defn: Bags, usually of leather, united by straps or a band, formerly
much used by horseback riders to carry small articles, one bag
hanging on each side.

SADDLEBOW
Sad"dle*bow`, n. Etym: [AS. sadelboga.]

Defn: The bow or arch in the front part of a saddle, or the pieces
which form the front.

SADDLECLOTH
Sad"dle*cloth`, n.

Defn: A cloth under a saddle, and extending out behind; a housing.

SADDLED
Sad"dled, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a broad patch of color across the back, like a saddle;
saddle-backed.

SADDLER
Sad"dler, n. .

Defn: One who makes saddles.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A harp seal.

SADDLERY
Sad"dler*y, n.

1. The materials for making saddles and harnesses; the articles
usually offered for sale in a saddler's shop.

2. The trade or employment of a saddler.

SADDLE-SHAPED
Sad"dle-shaped`, a.

Defn: Shaped like a saddle. Specifically:
(a) (Bot.) Bent down at the sides so as to give the upper part a
rounded form. Henslow.
(b) (Geol.) Bent on each side of a mountain or ridge, without being
broken at top; -- said of strata.

SADDLETREE
Sad"dle*tree`, n.

Defn: The frame of a saddle.
For saddletree scarce reached had he, His journey to begin. Cowper.

SADDUCAIC
Sad`du*ca"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or like, the Sadducees; as, Sadducaic
reasonings.

SADDUCEE
Sad"du*cee, n. Etym: [L. Sadducaei, p., Gr. Tsaddukim; -- so called
from Tsadok, the founder of the sect.]

Defn: One of a sect among the ancient Jews, who denied the
resurrection, a future state, and the existence of angels.
 -- Sad`du*ce"an, a.

SADDUCEEISM; SADDUCISM
Sad"du*cee`ism, Sad"du*cism, n.

Defn: The tenets of the Sadducees.

SADDUCIZE
Sad"du*cize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sadducized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sadducizing.]

Defn: To adopt the principles of the Sadducees. Atterbury.

SADH
Sadh, n. Etym: [Skr. sadhu perfect, pure.]

Defn: A member of a monotheistic sect of Hindoos. Sadhs resemble the
Quakers in many respects. Balfour (cyc. of India).

SADIRON
Sad"i`ron, n. Etym: [Probably sad heavy + iron.]

Defn: An iron for smoothing clothes; a flatiron.

SADLY
Sad"ly, adv.

1. Wearily; heavily; firmly. [Obs.]
In go the spears full sadly in arest. Chaucer.

2. Seriously; soberly; gravely. [Obs.]
To tell thee sadly, shepherd, without blame Or our neglect, we lost
her as we came. Milton.

3. Grievously; deeply; sorrowfully; miserably. "He sadly suffers in
their grief." Dryden.

SADNESS
Sad"ness, n.

1. Heaviness; firmness. [Obs.]

2. Seriousness; gravity; discretion. [Obs.]
Her sadness and her benignity. Chaucer.

3. Quality of being sad, or unhappy; gloominess; sorrowfulness;
dejection.
Dim sadness did not spare That time celestial visages. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Sorrow; heaviness; dejection. See Grief.

SADR
Sadr, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Ziziphus (Z. lotus); -- so called by the
Arabs of Barbary, who use its berries for food. See Lotus (b).

SAENGERBUND
Saeng"er*bund`, n.; G. pl. -bunde (#). [G. sangerbund.] (Music)

Defn: A singers' union; an association of singers or singing clubs,
esp. German.

SAENGERFEST
Saeng"er*fest, n. Etym: [G. sangerfest.]

Defn: A festival of singers; a German singing festival.

SAFE
Safe, a. [Compar. Safer; superl. Safest.] Etym: [OE. sauf, F. sauf,
fr. L. salvus, akin to salus health, welfare, safety. Cf. Salute,
Salvation, Sage a plant, Save, Salvo an exception.]

1. Free from harm, injury, or risk; untouched or unthreatened by
danger or injury; unharmed; unhurt; secure; whole; as, safe from
disease; safe from storms; safe from foes. "And ye dwelled safe." 1
Sam. xii. 11.
They escaped all safe all safe to land. Acts xxvii. 44.
Established in a safe, unenvied throne. Milton.

2. Conferring safety; securing from harm; not exposing to danger;
confining securely; to be relied upon; not dangerous; as, a safe
harbor; a safe bridge, etc. "The man of safe discretion." Shak.
The King of heaven hath doomed This place our dungeon, not our safe
retreat. Milton.

3. Incapable of doing harm; no longer dangerous; in secure care or
custody; as, the prisoner is safe.
But Banquo's safe Ay, my good lord, safe in a ditch he bides. Shak.
Safe hit (Baseball), a hit which enables the batter to get to first
base even if no error is made by the other side.

Syn.
 -- Secure; unendangered; sure.

SAFE
Safe, n.

Defn: A place for keeping things in safety. Specifically:
(a) A strong and fireproof receptacle (as a movable chest of steel,
etc., or a closet or vault of brickwork) for money, valuable papers,
or the like.
(b) A ventilated or refrigerated chest or closet for securing
provisions from noxious animals or insects.

SAFE
Safe, v. t.

Defn: To render safe; to make right. [Obs.] Shak.

SAFE-CONDUCT
Safe"-con"duct, n. Etym: [Safe + conduct: cf. F. sauf-conduit.]

Defn: That which gives a safe, passage; either
(a) a convoy or guard to protect a person in an enemy's country or a
foreign country, or
(b) a writing, pass, or warrant of security, given to a person to
enable him to travel with safety. Shak.

SAFE-CONDUCT
Safe`-con*duct", v. t.

Defn: To conduct safely; to give safe-conduct to. [POetic]
He him by all the bonds of love besought To safe-conduct his love.
Spenser.

SAFEGUARD
Safe"guard`, n. Etym: [Safe = guard: cf. F. sauvegarde.]

1. One who, or that which, defends or protects; defense; protection.
Shak.
Thy sword, the safeguard of thy brother's throne. Granwille.

2. A convoy or guard to protect a traveler or property.

3. A pass; a passport; a safe-conduct. Shak.

SAFEGUARD
Safe"guard`, v. t.

Defn: To guard; to protect. Shak.

SAFE-KEEPING
Safe"-keep"ing, n. Etym: [Safe + keep.]

Defn: The act of keeping or preserving in safety from injury or from
escape; care; custody.

SAFELY
Safe"ly, adv.

Defn: In a safe manner; danger, injury, loss, or evil consequences.

SAFENESS
Safe"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being safe; freedom from hazard,
danger, harm, or loss; safety; security; as the safeness of an
experiment, of a journey, or of a possession.

SAFE-PLEDGE
Safe"-pledge", n. (Law)

Defn: A surety for the appearance of a person at a given time.
Bracton.

SAFETY
Safe"ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sauvete.]

1. The condition or state of being safe; freedom from danger or
hazard; exemption from hurt, injury, or loss.
Up led by thee, Into the heaven I have presumed, An earthly guest . .
. With like safety guided down, Return me to my native element.
Milton.

2. Freedom from whatever exposes one to danger or from libility to
cause danger or harm; safeness; hence, the quality of making safe or
secure, or of giving confidence, justifying trust, insuring against
harm or loss, etc.
Would there were any safety in thy sex, That I might put a thousand
sorrows off. Beau. & Fl.

3. Preservation from escape; close custody.
Imprison him, . . . Deliver him to safety; and return. Shak.

4. (Football)

Defn: Same as Safety touchdown, below. Safety arch (Arch.), a
discharging arch. See under Discharge, v. t.
 -- Safety belt, a belt made of some buoyant material, or which is
capable of being inflated, so as to enable a person to float in
water; a life preserver.
 -- Safety buoy, a buoy to enable a person to float in water; a
safety belt.
 -- Safety cage (Mach.), a cage for an elevator or mine lift, having
appliances to prevent it from dropping if the lifting rope should
break.
 -- Safety lamp. (Mining) See under Lamp.
 -- Safety match, a match which can be ignited only on a surface
specially prepared for the purpose.
 -- Safety pin, a pin made in the form of a clasp, with a guard
covering its point so that it will not prick the wearer.
 -- safety plug. See Fusible plug, under Fusible.
 -- Safety switch. See Switch.
 -- Safety touchdown (Football), the act or result of a player's
touching to the ground behind his own goal line a ball which received
its last impulse from a man on his own side; -- distinguished from
touchback. See Touchdown.
 -- Safety tube (Chem.), a tube to prevent explosion, or to control
delivery of gases by an automatic valvular connection with the outer
air; especially, a bent funnel tube with bulbs for adding those
reagents which produce unpleasant fumes or violent effervescence.
 -- Safety valve, a valve which is held shut by a spring or weight
and opens automatically to permit the escape of steam, or confined
gas, water, etc., from a boiler, or other vessel, when the pressure
becomes too great for safety; also, sometimes, a similar valve
opening inward to admit air to a vessel in which the pressure is less
than that of the atmosphere, to prevent collapse.

SAFETY BICYCLE
Safety bicycle.

Defn: A bicycle with equal or nearly equal wheels, usually 28 inches
diameter, driven by pedals connected to the rear (driving) wheel by a
multiplying gear.

SAFETY CHAIN
Safety chain.
 (a) (Railroads) A normally slack chain for preventing excessive
movement between a truck and a car body in sluing.
 (b) An auxiliary watch chain, secured to the clothes, usually out of
sight, to prevent stealing of the watch.
 (c) A chain of sheet metal links with an elongated hole through each
broad end, made up by doubling the first link on itself, slipping the
next link through and doubling, and so on.

SAFFLOW
Saf"flow, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The safflower. [Obs.]

SAFFLOWER
Saf"flow`er, n. Etym: [F. safeur, safior, for safran, influenced by
fleur flower. See Saffron, and Flower.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: An annual composite plant (Carthamus tinctorius), the flowers
of which are used as a dyestuff and in making rouge; bastard, or
false, saffron.

2. The died flowers of the Carthamus tinctorius.

3. A dyestuff from these flowers. See Safranin (b). Oil of safflower,
a purgative oil expressed from the seeds of the safflower.

SAFFRON
Saf"fron, n. Etym: [OE. saffran, F. safran; cf. It. zafferano, Sp.
azafran, Pg. acafrao; all fr. Ar. & Per. za' faran.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A bulbous iridaceous plant (Crocus sativus) having blue flowers
with large yellow stigmas. See Crocus.

2. The aromatic, pungent, dried stigmas, usually with part of the
stile, of the Crocus sativus. Saffron is used in cookery, and in
coloring confectionery, liquors, varnishes, etc., and was formerly
much used in medicine.

3. An orange or deep yellow color, like that of the stigmas of the
Crocus sativus. Bastard saffron, Dyer's saffron. (Bot.) See
Safflower.
 -- Meadow saffron (Bot.), a bulbous plant (Colchichum autumnate) of
Europe, resembling saffron.
 -- Saffron wood (Bot.), the yellowish wood of a South African tree
(El?odendron croceum); also, the tree itself.
 -- Saffron yellow, a shade of yellow like that obtained from the
stigmas of the true saffron (Crocus sativus).

SAFFRON
Saf"fron, a.

Defn: Having the color of the stigmas of saffron flowers; deep
orange-yellow; as, a saffron face; a saffron streamer.

SAFFRON
Saf"fron, v. t.

Defn: To give color and flavor to, as by means of saffron; to spice.
[Obs.]
And in Latyn I speak a wordes few, To saffron with my predication.
Chaucer.

SAFFRONY
Saf"fron*y, a.

Defn: Having a color somewhat like saffron; yellowish. Lord (1630).

SAFRANIN
Saf"ra*nin, n. (Chem.)
(a) An orange-red dyestuff extracted from the saffron. [R.]
(b) A red dyestuff extracted from the safflower, and formerly used in
dyeing wool, silk, and cotton pink and scarlet; -- called also
Spanish red, China lake, and carthamin.
(c) An orange-red dyestuff prepared from certain nitro compounds of
creosol, and used as a substitute for the safflower dye.

SAFRANINE
Saf"ra*nine ( or ), n. Etym: [So called because used as a substitute
for safranin.] (Chem.)

Defn: An orange-red nitrogenous dyestuff produced artificailly by
oxidizing certain aniline derivatives, and used in dyeing silk and
wool; also, any one of the series of which safranine proper is the
type.

SAG
Sag, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Sagging.] Etym:
[Akin to Sw. sacka to settle, sink down, LG.sacken, D. zakken. Cf.
Sink, v. i.]

1. To sink, in the middle, by its weight or under applied pressure,
below a horizontal line or plane; as, a line or cable supported by
its ends sags, though tightly drawn; the floor of a room sags; hence,
to lean, give way, or settle from a vertical position; as, a building
may sag one way or another; a door sags on its hinges.

2. Fig.: To lose firmness or elasticity; to sink; to droop; to flag;
to bend; to yield, as the mind or spirits, under the pressure of
care, trouble, doubt, or the like; to be unsettled or unbalanced.
[R.]
the mind I sway by, and the heart I bear, Shall never sag with doubt
nor shake with fear. Shak.

3. To loiter in walking; to idle along; to drag or droop heavily. To
sag to leeward (Naut.), to make much leeway by reason of the wind,
sea, or current; to drift to leeward; -- said of a vessel. Totten.

SAG
Sag, v. t.

Defn: To cause to bend or give way; to load.

SAG
Sag, n.

Defn: State of sinking or bending; sagging.

SAGA
Sa"ga, n.; pl. Sagas. Etym: [Icel., akin to E. saw a saying. See Say,
and cf. Saw.]

Defn: A Scandinavian legend, or heroic or mythic tradition, among the
Norsemen and kindred people; a northern European popular historical
or religious tale of olden time.
And then the blue-eyed Norseman told A saga of the days of old.
Longfellow.

SAGACIOUS
Sa*ga"cious, a. Etym: [L. sagax, sagacis, akin to sagire to perceive
quickly or keenly, and probably to E. seek. See Seek, and cf.
Presage.]

1. Of quick sense perceptions; keen-scented; skilled in following a
trail.
Sagacious of his quarry from so far. Milton.

2. Hence, of quick intellectual perceptions; of keen penetration and
judgment; discerning and judicious; knowing; far-sighted; shrewd;
sage; wise; as, a sagacious man; a sagacious remark.
Instinct . . . makes them, many times, sagacious above our
apprehension. Dr. H. More.
Only sagacious heads light on these observations, and reduce them
into general propositions. Locke.

Syn.
 -- See Shrewd.
 -- Sa*ga"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Sa-ga"cious*ness, n.

SAGACITY
Sa*gac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. sagacitas. See Sagacious.]

Defn: The quality of being sagacious; quickness or acuteness of sense
perceptions; keenness of discernment or penetration with soundness of
judgment; shrewdness.
Some [brutes] show that nice sagacity of smell. Cowper.
Natural sagacity improved by generous education. V. Knox.

Syn.
 -- Penetration; shrewdness; judiciousness.
 -- Sagacity, Penetration. Penetration enables us to enter into the
depths of an abstruse subject, to detect motives, plans, etc.
Sagacity adds to penetration a keen, practical judgment, which
enables one to guard against the designs of others, and to turn
everything to the best possible advantage.

SAGAMORE
Sag"a*more, n.

1. Etym: [Cf. Sachem.]

Defn: The head of a tribe among the American Indians; a chief; --
generally used as synonymous with sachem, but some writters
distinguished between them, making the sachem a chief of the first
rank, and a sagamore one of the second rank. "Be it sagamore, sachem,
or powwow." Longfellow.

2. A juice used in medicine. [Obs.] Johnson.

SAGAPEN
Sag"a*pen, n.

Defn: Sagapenum.

SAGAPENUM
Sag`a*pe"num, n. Etym: [L. sagapenon, sacopenium, Gr. sagapin, gomme
sagapin, sagapenum, Ar. sikbinaj, Per. sakbinah, sikbinah.] (Med.)

Defn: A fetid gum resin obtained from a species of Ferula. It has
been used in hysteria, etc., but is now seldom met with. U. S. Disp.

SAGATHY
Sag"a*thy, n. Etym: [F. sagatis: cf. Sp. sagati, saeti.]

Defn: A mixed woven fabric of silk and cotton; or silk and wool;
sayette; also, a light woolen fabric.

SAGE
Sage, n. Etym: [OE. sauge, F. sauge, L. salvia, from salvus saved, in
allusion to its reputed healing virtues. See Safe.] (Bot.)
(a) A suffriticose labiate plant (Salvia officinalis) with grayish
green foliage, much used in flavoring meats, etc. The name is often
extended to the whole genus, of which many species are cultivated for
ornament, as the scarlet sage, and Mexican red and blue sage.
(b) The sagebrush. Meadow sage (Bot.), a blue-flowered species of
salvia (S. pratensis) growing in meadows in Europe.
 -- Sage cheese, cheese flavored with sage, and colored green by the
juice of leaves of spanish and other plants which are added to the
milk.
 -- Sage cock (Zool.), the male of the sage grouse; in a more general
sense, the specific name of the sage grouse.
 -- Sage green, of a dull grayish green color, like the leaves of
garden sage.
 -- Sage grouse (Zool.), a very large American grouse (Centrocercus
urophasianus), native of the dry sagebrush plains of Western North
America. Called also cock of the plains. The male is called sage
cock, and the female sage hen.
 -- Sage hare, or Sage rabbit (Zool.), a species of hare (Lepus
Nuttalli, or artemisia) which inhabits the regions of Western North
America and lives among sagebrush. By recent writers it is considered
to be merely a variety of the common cottontail, or wood rabbit.
 -- Sage hen (Zool.), the female of the sage grouse. Sage sparrow
(Zool.), a small sparrow (Amphispiza Belli, var Nevadensis) which
inhabits the dry plains of the Rocky Mountain region, living among
sagebrush.
 -- Sage thrasher (Zool.), a singing bird (Oroscoptes montanus) which
inhabits the sagebrush plains of Western North America.
 -- Sage willow (Bot.), a species of willow (Salix tristis) forming a
low bush with nearly sessile grayish green leaves.

SAGE
Sage, a. [Compar. Sager; superl. Sagest.] Etym: [F., fr. L. sapius
(only in nesapius unwise, foolish), fr. sapere to be wise; perhaps
akin to E. sap. Cf. Savor, Sapient, Insipid.]

1. Having nice discernment and powers of judging; prudent; grave;
sagacious.
All you sage counselors, hence! Shak.

2. Proceeding from wisdom; well judged; shrewd; well adapted to the
purpose.
Commanders, who, cloaking their fear under show of sage advice,
counseled the general to retreat. Milton.

3. Grave; serious; solemn. [R.] "[Great bards.] in sage and solemn
tunes have sung." Milton.

Syn.
 -- Wise; sagacious; sapient; grave; prudent; judicious.

SAGE
Sage, n.

Defn: A wise man; a man of gravity and wisdom; especially, a man
venerable for years, and of sound judgment and prudence; a grave
philosopher.
At his birth a star, Unseen before in heaven, proclaims him come, And
guides the Eastern sages. Milton.

SAGEBRUSH
Sage"brush`, n.

Defn: A low irregular shrub (Artemisia tridentata), of the order
Composit?, covering vast tracts of the dry alkaline regions of the
American plains; -- called also sagebush, and wild sage.

SAGEBRUSH STATE
Sagebrush State.

Defn: Nevada; -- a nickname.

SAGELY
Sage"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sage manner; wisely.

SAGENE
Sa*gene", n. Etym: [Russ. sajene.]

Defn: A Russian measure of length equal to about seven English feet.

SAGENESS
Sage"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sage; wisdom; sagacity; prudence;
gravity. Ascham.

SAGENITE
Sag"e*nite, n. Etym: [F. sagenite, fr. L. sagena a large net. See
Saine.] (Min.)

Defn: Acicular rutile occurring in reticulated forms imbedded in
quartz.

SAGENITIC
Sag`e*nit"ic, a. (Min.)

Defn: Resembling sagenite; -- applied to quartz when containing
acicular crystals of other minerals, most commonly rutile, also
tourmaline, actinolite, and the like.

SAGGER
Sag"ger, n. Etym: [See Segger.]

1. A pot or case of fire clay, in which fine stoneware is inclosed
while baking in the kiln; a segga.

2. The clay of which such pots or cases are made.

SAGGING
Sag"ging, n.

Defn: A bending or sinking between the ends of a thing, in
consequence of its own, or an imposed, weight; an arching downward in
the middle, as of a ship after straining. Cf. Hogging.

SAGINATE
Sag"i*nate, v. t. Etym: [L. saginatus, p.p. of saginare to fat, fr.
sagina stuffing.]

Defn: To make fat; to pamper. [R.] "Many a saginated boar." Cowper.

SAGINATION
Sag`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. saginatio.]

Defn: The act of fettening or pampering. [R.] Topsell.

SAGITTA
Sa*git"ta, n. Etym: [L., an arrow.]

1. (Astron.)

Defn: A small constellation north of Aquila; the Arrow.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: The keystone of an arch. [R.] gwitt.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: The distance from a point in a curve to the chord; also, the
versed sine of an arc; -- so called from its resemblance to an arrow
resting on the bow and string. [Obs.]

4. (Anat.)

Defn: The larger of the two otoliths, or ear bones, found in most
fishes.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of transparent, free-swimming marine worms having
lateral and caudal fins, and capable of swimming rapidly. It is the
type of the class Ch?tognatha.

SAGITTAL
Sag"it*tal, a. Etym: [L. sagitta an arrow: cf. F. saguttal.]

1. Of or pertaining to an arrow; resembling an arrow; furnished with
an arowlike appendage.

2. (Anat.)
(a) Of or pertaining to the sagittal suture; in the region of the
sagittal suture; rabdoidal; as, the sagittal furrow, or groove, on
the inner surface of the roof of the skull.
(b) In the mesial plane; as, a sagittal section of an animal.
Sagittal suture (Anat.), the suture between the two parietal bones in
the top of the skull; -- called also rabdoidal suture, and
interparietal suture.

SAGITTARIUS
Sag`it*ta"ri*us, n. Etym: [L., literally, an archer, fr. sagittarius
belonging to an arrow, fr. sagitta an arrow.] (Astron.)
(a) The ninth of the twelve signs of the zodiac, which the sun enters
about November 22, marked thus [&sagittarius;] in almanacs; the
Archer.
(b) A zodiacal constellation, represented on maps and globes as a
centaur shooting an arrow.

SAGITTARY
Sag"it*ta"ry, n. Etym: [See Sagittarius.]

1. (Myth.)

Defn: A centaur; a fabulous being, half man, half horse, armed with a
bow and quiver. Shak.

2. The Arsenal in Venice; -- so called from having a figure of an
archer over the door. Shak.

SAGITTARY
Sag"it*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. sagittarius.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, an arrow. Sir T. Browne.

SAGITTATE
Sag"it*tate, a. Etym: [NL. sagittatus, fr. L. sagitta an arrow.]

Defn: Shaped like an arrowhead; triangular, with the two basal angles
prolonged downward.

SAGITTATED
Sag"it*ta`ted, a.

Defn: Sagittal; sagittate.

SAGITTOCYST
Sag"it*to*cyst, n. Etym: [See Sagitta, and Cyst.] (Zool.)

Defn: A defensive cell containing a minute rodlike structure which
may be expelled. Such cells are found in certain Turbellaria.

SAGO
Sa"go, n. Etym: [Malay. sagu.]

Defn: A dry granulated starch imported from the East Indies, much
used for making puddings and as an article of diet for the sick;
also, as starch, for stiffening textile fabrics. It is prepared from
the stems of several East Indian and Malayan palm trees, but chiefly
from the Metroxylon Sagu; also from several cycadaceous plants (Cycas
revoluta, Zamia integrifolia, atc.). Portland sago, a kind of sago
prepared from the corms of the cuckoopint (Arum maculatum).
 -- Sago palm. (Bot.) (a) A palm tree which yields sago. (b) A
species of Cycas (Cycas revoluta).
 -- Sago spleen (Med.), a morbid condition of the spleen, produced by
amyloid degeneration of the organ, in which a cross section shows
scattered gray translucent bodies looking like grains of sago.

SAGOIN
Sa*goin", n. Etym: [F. sagouin(formed from the native South American
name).] (Zool.)

Defn: A marmoset; -- called also sagouin.

SAGUM
Sa"gum, n.; pl. Saga. Etym: [L. sagum, sagus; cf. Gr. Say a kind of
serge.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: The military cloak of the Roman soldiers.

SAGUS
sa"gus, n. Etym: [NL. See Sago.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of palms from which sago is obtained.

SAGY
Sa"gy, a.

Defn: Full of sage; seasoned with sage.

SAHIB; SAHEB
Sa"hib, sa"heb, n. Etym: [Ar. cahib master, lord, fem. cahibah.]

Defn: A respectful title or appelation given to Europeans of rank.
[India]

SAHIBAH
Sa"hi*bah, n. Etym: [See Sahib.]

Defn: A lady; mistress. [India]

SAHIDIC
Sa*hid"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Thebaic.

SAHLITE
Sah"lite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Salite.

SAHUI
Sa*hui", n. (Zool.)

Defn: A marmoset.

SAI
Sa"i, n. Etym: [Cf. Pg. sahi.] (Zool.)

Defn: See Capuchin, 3 (a).

SAIBLING
Sai"bling, n. Etym: [Dial. G.] (Zool.)

Defn: A European mountain trout (Salvelinus alpinus); -- called also
Bavarian charr.

SAIC
Sa"ic, n. Etym: [F. saique, turk. shaika.] (Naut.)

Defn: A kind of ketch very common in the Levant, which has neither
topgallant sail nor mizzen topsail.

SAID
Said,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Say.

SAID
Said, a.

Defn: before-mentioned; already spoken of or specified; aforesaid; --
used chiefly in legal style.

SAIGA
Sai"ga, n. Etym: [Russ. saika.] (Zool.)

Defn: An antelope (Saiga Tartarica) native of the plains of Siberia
and Eastern Russia. The male has erect annulated horns, and tufts of
long hair beneath the eyes and ears.

SAIKYR
Sai"kyr, n. (Mil.)

Defn: Same as Saker. [Obs.]

SAIL
Sail, n. Etym: [OE. seil, AS. segel, segl; akin to D. zeil, OHG.
segal, G. & Sw. segel, Icel. segl, Dan. seil. sq. root 153.]

1. An extent of canvas or other fabric by means of which the wind is
made serviceable as a power for propelling vessels through the water.
Behoves him now both sail and oar. Milton.

2. Anything resembling a sail, or regarded as a sail.

3. A wing; a van. [Poetic]
Like an eagle soaring To weather his broad sails. Spenser
.

4. the extended surface of the arm of a windmill.

5. A sailing vessel; a vessel of any kind; a craft.

Note: In this sense, the plural has usually the same forms as the
singular; as, twenty sail were in sight.

6. A passage by a sailing vessel; a journey or excursion upon the
water.

Note: Sails are of two general kinds, fore-and-aft sails, and square
sails. Square sails are always bent to yards, with their foot lying
across the line of the vessel. Fore-and-aft sails are set upon stays
or gaffs with their foot in line with the keel. A fore-and-aft sail
is triangular, or quadrilateral with the after leech longer than the
fore leech. Square sails are quardrilateral, but not necessarily
square. See Phrases under Fore, a., and Square, a.; also, Bark, Brig,
Schooner, Ship, Stay. Sail burton (Naut.), a purchase for hoisting
sails aloft for bending.
 -- Sail fluke (Zool.), the whiff.
 -- Sail hook, a small hook used in making sails, to hold the seams
square.
 -- Sail loft, a loft or room where sails are cut out and made.
 -- Sail room (Naut.), a room in a vessel where sails are stowed when
not in use.
 -- Sail yard (Naut.), the yard or spar on which a sail is extended.
 -- Shoulder-of-mutton sail (Naut.), a triangular sail of peculiar
form. It is chiefly used to set on a boat's mast.
 -- To crowd sail. (Naut.) See under Crowd.
 -- To loose sails (Naut.), to unfurl or spread sails.
 -- To make sail (Naut.), to extend an additional quantity of sail.
 -- To set a sail (Naut.), to extend or spread a sail to the wind.
 -- To set sail (Naut.), to unfurl or spread the sails; hence, to
begin a voyage.
 -- To shorten sail (Naut.), to reduce the extent of sail, or take in
a part.
 -- To strike sail (Naut.), to lower the sails suddenly, as in
saluting, or in sudden gusts of wind; hence, to acknowledge
inferiority; to abate pretension.
 -- Under sail, having the sails spread.

SAIL
Sail, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sailed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sailing.] Etym:
[AS. segelian, seglian. See Sail, n.]

1. To be impelled or driven forward by the action of wind upon sails,
as a ship on water; to be impelled on a body of water by the action
of steam or other power.

2. To move through or on the water; to swim, as a fish or a water
fowl.

3. To be conveyed in a vessel on water; to pass by water; as, they
sailed from London to Canton.

4. To set sail; to begin a voyage.

5. To move smoothly through the air; to glide through the air without
apparent exertion, as a bird.
As is a winged messenger of heaven, . . . When he bestrides the lazy
pacing clouds, And sails upon the bosom of the air. Shak.

SAIL
Sail, v. t.

1. To pass or move upon, as in a ship, by means of sails; hence, to
move or journey upon(the water) by means of steam or other force.
A thousand ships were manned to sail the sea. Dryden.

2. To fly through; to glide or move smoothly through.
Sublime she sails The aerial space, and mounts the winged gales.
Pope.

3. To direct or manage the motion of, as a vessel; as, to sail one's
own ship. Totten.

SAILABLE
Sail"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being sailed over; navigable; as, a sailable river.

SAILBOAT
Sail"boat`, n.

Defn: A boat propelled by a sail or sails.

SAILCLOTH
Sail"cloth`, n.

Defn: Duck or canvas used in making sails.

SAILER
Sail"er, n.

1. A sailor. [R.] Sir P. Sidney.

2. A ship or other vessel; -- with qualifying words descriptive of
speed or manner of sailing; as, a heavy sailer; a fast sailer.

SAILFISH
Sail"fish, n. (Zool.)
(a) The banner fish, or spikefish (Histiophorus.)
(b) The basking, or liver, shark.
(c) The quillback.

SAILING
Sail"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, sails; the motion of a vessel
on water, impelled by wind or steam; the act of starting on a voyage.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The art of managing a vessel; seamanship; navigation; as,
globular sailing; oblique sailing.

Note: For the several methods of sailing, see under Circular,
Globular, Oblique, Parallel, etc. Sailing master (U. S. Navy),
formerly, a warrant officer, ranking next below a lieutenant, whose
duties were to navigate the vessel; and under the direction of the
executive officer, to attend to the stowage of the hold, to the
cables, rigging, etc. The grade was merged in that of master in 1862.

SAILLESS
Sail"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of sails. Pollok.

SAILMAKER
Sail"mak`er, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to make or repair sails.
 -- Sail"mak`ing, n.

SAILOR
Sail"or, n.

Defn: One who follows the business of navigating ships or other
vessels; one who understands the practical management of ships; one
of the crew of a vessel; a mariner; a common seaman.

Syn.
 -- Mariner; seaman; seafarer. Sailor's choice. (Zool.) (a) An
excellent marine food fish (Diplodus, or Lagodon, rhomboides) of the
Southern United States; -- called also porgy, squirrel fish,
yellowtail, and salt-water bream. (b) A species of grunt
(Orthopristis, or Pomadasys, chrysopterus), an excellent food fish,
common on the southern coasts of the United States; -- called also
hogfish, and pigfish.

SAILY
Sail"y, a.

Defn: Like a sail. [R.] Drayton.

SAIM
Saim, n. Etym: [OF. sain, LL. saginum, fr. L. sagina a fattening.]

Defn: Lard; grease. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

SAIMIR
Sai*mir", n. (Zool.)

Defn: The squirrel monkey.

SAIN
Sain, obs. p. p. of Say, for sayen.

Defn: Said. Shak.

SAIN
Sain, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Saint, Sane.]

Defn: To sanctify; to bless so as to protect from evil influence.
[R.] Sir W. Scott.

SAINFOIN
Sain"foin, n. Etym: [F., fr. sain wholesome (L. sanus; see Sane.) +
foin hay (L. f?num); or perh. fr. saint sacred (L. sanctus; see
Saint) + foin hay.] (Bot.)
(a) A leguminous plant (Onobrychis sativa) cultivated for fodder.
[Written also saintfoin.]
(b) A kind of tick trefoil (Desmodium Canadense). [Canada]

SAINT
Saint, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. santcus sacred, properly p.p. of sancire
to render sacred by a religious act, to appoint as sacred; akin to
sacer sacred. Cf. Sacred, Sanctity, Sanctum, Sanctus.]

1. A person sanctified; a holy or godly person; one eminent for piety
and virtue; any true Christian, as being redeemed and consecrated to
God.
Them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. 1 Cor.
i. 2.

2. One of the blessed in heaven.
Then shall thy saints, unmixed, and from the impure Far separate,
circling thy holy mount, Unfeigned hallelujahs to thee sing. Milton.

3. (Eccl.)

Defn: One canonized by the church. [Abbrev. St.] Saint Andrew's cross
(a) A cross shaped like the letter X. See Illust. 4, under Cross. (b)
(Bot.) A low North American shrub (Ascyrum Crux-Andr?, the petals of
which have the form of a Saint Andrew's cross. Gray.
 -- Saint Anthony's cross, a T-shaped cross. See Illust. 6, under
Cross.
 -- Saint Anthony's fire, the erysipelas; -- popularly so called
because it was supposed to have been cured by the intercession of
Saint Anthony.
 -- Saint Anthony's nut (Bot.), the groundnut (Bunium flexuosum); --
so called because swine feed on it, and St. Anthony was once a
swineherd. Dr. Prior.
 -- Saint Anthony's turnip (Bot.), the bulbous crowfoot, a favorite
food of swine. Dr. Prior.
 -- Saint Barnaby's thistle (Bot.), a kind of knapeweed (Centaurea
solstitialis) flowering on St. Barnabas's Day, June 11th. Dr. Prior.
 -- Saint Bernard (Zool.), a breed of large, handsome dogs celebrated
for strength and sagacity, formerly bred chiefly at the Hospice of
St. Bernard in Switzerland, but now common in Europe and America.
There are two races, the smooth-haired and the rough-haired. See
Illust. under Dog.
 -- Saint Catharine's flower (Bot.), the plant love-a-mist. See under
Love.
 -- Saint Cuthbert's beads (Paleon.), the fossil joints of crinoid
stems.
 -- Saint Dabeoc's heath (Bot.), a heatherlike plant (Dab?cia
polifolia), named from an Irish saint.
 -- Saint Distaff's Day. See under Distaff.
 -- Saint Elmo's fire, a luminious, flamelike appearance, sometimes
seen in dark, tempestuous nights, at some prominent point on a ship,
particularly at the masthead and the yardams. It has also been
observed on land, and is due to the discharge of electricity from
elevated or pointed objects. A single flame is called a Helena, or a
Corposant; a double, or twin, flame is called a Castor and Pollux, or
a double Corposant. It takes its name from St. Elmo, the patron saint
of sailors.
 -- Saint George's cross (Her.), a Greek cross gules upon a field
argent, the field being represented by a narrow fimbriation in the
ensign, or union jack, of Great Britain.
 -- Saint George's ensign, a red cross on a white field with a union
jack in the upper corner next the mast. It is the distinguishing
badge of ships of the royal navy of England; -- called also the white
ensign. Brande & C.
 -- Saint George's flag, a smaller flag resembling the ensign, but
without the union jack; used as the sign of the presence and command
of an admiral. [Eng.] Brande & C.
 -- Saint Gobain glass (Chem.), a fine variety of soda-lime plate
glass, so called from St.Gobain in France, where it was manufactured.
 -- Saint Ignatius's bean (Bot.), the seed of a tree of the
Philippines (Strychnos Ignatia), of properties similar to the nux
vomica.
 -- Saint Jame's shell (Zool.), a pecten (Vola Jacob?us) worn by
piligrims to the Holy Land. See Illust. under Scallop.
 -- Saint Jame's wort (Bot.), a kind of ragwort (Senecio Jacob?a).
 -- Saint John's bread. (Bot.) See Carob.
 -- Saint John's-wort (Bot.), any plant of the genus Hypericum, most
species of which have yellow flowers; -- called also John's-wort.
 -- Saint Leger, the name of a race for three-year-old horses run
annually in September at Doncaster, England; -- instituted in 1776 by
Col. St. Leger.
 -- Saint Martin's herb (Bot.), a small tropical American violaceous
plant (Sauvagesia erecta). It is very mucilaginous and is used in
medicine.

-- Saint Martin's summer, a season of mild, damp weather frequently
prevailing during late autumn in England and the Mediterranean
countries; -- so called from St. Martin's Festival, occuring on
November 11. It corresponds to the Indian summer in America. Shak.
Whitier.
 -- Saint Patrick's cross. See Illust 4, under Cross.
 -- Saint Patrick's Day, the 17th of March, anniversary of the death
(about 466) of St. Patrick, the apostle and patron saint of Ireland.
 -- Saint Peter's fish. (Zool.) See John Dory, under John.
 -- Saint Peter's-wort (Bot.), a name of several plants, as Hypericum
Ascyron, H. quadrangulum, Ascyrum stans, etc.
 -- Saint Peter's wreath (Bot.), a shrubby kind of Spir?a (S.
hypericifolia), having long slender branches covered with clusters of
small white blossoms in spring.
 -- Saint's bell. See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus.
 -- Saint Vitus's dance (Med.), chorea; -- so called from the
supposed cures wrought on intercession to this saint.

SAINT
Saint, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sainted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sainting.]

Defn: To make a saint of; to enroll among the saints by an offical
act, as of the pope; to canonize; to give the title or reputation of
a saint to (some one).
A large hospital, erected by a shoemaker who has been beatified,
though never sainted. Addison.
To saint it, to act as a saint, or with a show of piety.
Whether the charmer sinner it or saint it. Shak.

SAINT
Saint, v. i.

Defn: To act or live as a saint. [R.] Shak.

SAINTDOM
Saint"dom, n.

Defn: The state or character of a saint. [R.] Tennyson.

SAINTED
Saint"ed, a.

1. Consecrated; sacred; holy; pious. "A most sainted king." Shak.
Amongst the enthroned gods on sainted seats. Milton.

2. Entered into heaven; -- a euphemism for dead.

SAINTESS
Saint"ess, n.

Defn: A female saint. [R.] Bp. Fisher.

SAINTHOOD
Saint"hood, n.

1. The state of being a saint; the condition of a saint. Walpole.

2. The order, or united body, of saints; saints, considered
collectively.
It was supposed he felt no call to anu expedition that might
sainthood. Sir W. Scott.

SAINTISH
Saint"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat saintlike; -- used ironically.

SAINTISM
Saint"ism, n.

Defn: The character or quality of saints; also, hypocritical pretense
of holiness. Wood.

SAINTLIKE
Saint"like`, a.

Defn: Resembling a saint; suiting a saint; becoming a saint; saintly.
Glossed over only with a saintlike show. Dryden.

SAINTLINESS
Saint"li*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being saintly.

SAINTLY
Saint"ly, a. [Compar. Saintlier; superl. Saintliest.]

Defn: Like a saint; becoming a holy person.
So dear to Heaven is saintly chastity. Milton.

SAINTOLOGIST
Saint*ol"o*gist, n. Etym: [Saint + -logy + -ist.] (Theol.)

Defn: One who writes the lives of saints. [R.]

SAINTSHIP
Saint"ship, n.

Defn: The character or qualities of a saint.

SAINT-SIMONIAN
Saint`-Si*mo"ni*an, n.

Defn: A follower of the Count de St. Simon, who died in 1825, and who
maintained that the principle of property held in common, and the
just division of the fruits of common labor among the members of
society, are the true remedy for the social evils which exist. Brande
& C.

SAINT-SIMONIANISM
Saint`-Si*mo"ni*an*ism, n.

Defn: The principles, doctrines, or practice of the Saint-Simonians;
-- called also Saint-Simonism.

SAINT-SIMONISM
Saint-Si"mon*ism, n.

Defn: A system of socialism in which the state owns all the property
and the laborer is entitled to share according to the quality and
amount of his work, founded by Saint Simon (1760-1825).

SAITH
Saith,

Defn: 3d pers. sing. pres. of Say. [Archaic]

SAITHE
Saithe, n. Etym: [Gael. saoidheam.] (Zool.)

Defn: The pollock, or coalfish; -- called also sillock. [Scot.]

SAIVA
Sai"va ( or ), n. Etym: [Skr. caiva devoted to Siva.]

Defn: One of an important religious sect in India which regards Siva
with peculiar veneration.

SAIVISM
Sai"vism, n.

Defn: The worship of Siva.

SAJENE
Sa*jene", n.

Defn: Same as Sagene.

SAJOU
Sa"jou (; F. , n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Sapajou.

SAKE
Sake, n. Etym: [OE. sake cause, also, lawsuit, fault, AS. sacu
strife, a cause or suit at law; akin to D. zaak cause, thing, affair,
G. sache thing, cause in law, OHG. sahha, Icel. sok, Sw. sak, Dan.
sag, Goth. sakj strife, AS. sacan to contend, strive, Goth. sakan,
Icel. saka to contend, strive, blame, OHG. sahhan, MHG. sachen, to
contend, strive, defend one's right, accuse, charge in a lawsuit, and
also to E. seek. Cf. Seek.]

Defn: Final cause; end; purpose of obtaining; cause; motive; reason;
interest; concern; account; regard or respect; -- used chiefly in
such phrases as, for the sake, for his sake, for man's sake, for
mercy's sake, and the like; as, to commit crime for the sake of gain;
to go abroad for the sake of one's health.
Moved with wrath and shame and ladies; sake. Spenser.
I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake. Gen. viii.
21.
Will he draw out, For anger's sake, finite to infinite Milton.
Knowledge is for the sake of man, and not man for the sake of
knowledge. Sir W. Hamilton.

Note: The -s of the possessive case preceding sake is sometimes
omitted for euphony; as, for goodness sake. "For conscience sake." 1
Cor. x. 28. The plural sakes is often used with a possessive plural.
"For both our sakes." Shak.

SAKER
Sa"ker, n. Etym: [F. sacre (cf. It. sagro, Sp. & Pg. sacre), either
fr. L. sacer sacred, holy, as a translation of Gr. hawk.] [Written
also sacar, sacre.]

1. (Zo\'94l.)
(a) A falcon (Falco sacer) native of Southern Europe and Asia,
closely resembling the lanner.

Note: The female is called chargh, and the male charghela, or
sakeret.
(b) The peregrine falcon. [Prov. Eng.]

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A small piece of artillery. Wilhelm.
On the bastions were planted culverins and sakers. Macaulay.
The culverins and sakers showing their deadly muzzles over the
rampart. Hawthorne.

SAKERET
Sa"ker*et, n. Etym: [F. sacret. See Saker.] (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: The male of the saker (a).

SAKI
Sa"ki, n. Etym: [Cf. F. & Pg. saki; probably from the native name.]
(Zo\'94l.)

Defn: Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the
genus Pithecia. They have large ears, and a long hairy tail which is
not prehensile.

Note: The black saki (Pithecia satanas), the white-headed
(P.leucocephala), and the red-backed, or hand-drinking, saki
(P.chiropotes), are among the best-known.

SAKI
Sa"ki, n.

Defn: The alcoholic drink of Japan. It is made from rice.sake

SAKIEH; SAKIYEH
Sak"i*eh, Sak"i*yeh, n. [Ar. saqiah canal, trench.]

Defn: A kind of water wheel used in Egypt for raising water, from
wells or pits, in buckets attached to its periphery or to an endless
rope.

SAKTI
Sak"ti, n. Etym: [Skr.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: The divine energy, personified as the wife of a deity (Brahma,
Vishnu, Siva, etc.); the female principle.

SAL
Sal (sall), n. Etym: [Hind. s\'bel, Skr. c\'bela.] (Bot.)

Defn: An East Indian timber tree (Shorea robusta), much used for
building purposes. It is of a light brown color, close-grained, and
durable. [Written also saul.]

SAL
Sal (sal), n. Etym: [L. See Salt.] (Chem. & Pharm.)

Defn: Salt. Sal absinthii Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), an impure
potassium carbonate obtained from the ashes of wormwood (Artemisia
Absinthium).
 -- Sal acetosell\'91 Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), salt of sorrel.
 -- Sal alembroth. (Old Chem.) See Alembroth.
 -- Sal ammoniac (Chem.), ammonium chloride, NH4Cl, a white
crystalline volatile substance having a sharp salty taste, obtained
from gas works, from nitrogenous matter, etc. It is largely employed
as a source of ammonia, as a reagent, and as an expectorant in
bronchitis. So called because originally made from the soot from
camel's dung at the temple of Jupiter Ammon in Africa. Called also
muriate of ammonia.
 -- Sal catharticus Etym: [NL.] (Old Med. Chem.), Epsom salts.
 -- Sal culinarius Etym: [L.] (Old Chem.), common salt, or sodium
chloride.
 -- Sal Cyrenaicus. Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.) See Sal ammoniac above.
 -- Sal de duobus, Sal duplicatum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), potassium
sulphate; -- so called because erroneously supposed to be composed of
two salts, one acid and one alkaline.
 -- Sal diureticus Etym: [NL.] (Old Med. Chem.), potassium acetate.
 -- Sal enixum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), acid potassium sulphate.
 -- Sal gemm\'91 Etym: [NL.] (Old Min.), common salt occuring native.
 -- Sal Jovis Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), salt tin, or stannic chloride;
-- the alchemical name of tin being Jove.
 -- Sal Martis Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), green vitriol, or ferrous
sulphate; -- the alchemical name of iron being. Mars.
 -- Sal microcosmicum Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.) See Microcosmic salt,
under Microcosmic.
 -- Sal plumbi Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sugar of lead.
 -- Sal prunella. (Old Chem.) See Prunella salt, under 1st Prunella.
 -- Sal Saturni Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sugar of lead, or lead
acetate; -- the alchemical name of lead being Saturn.
 -- Sal sedativus Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), sedative salt, or boric
acid.
 -- Sal Seignette Etym: [F. seignette, sel de seignette] (Chem.),
Rochelle salt.
 -- Sal soda (Chem.), sodium carbonate. See under Sodium.
 -- Sal vitrioli Etym: [NL.] (Old Chem.), white vitriol; zinc
sulphate.
 -- Sal volatile. Etym: [NL.] (a) (Chem.) See Sal ammoniac, above.
(b) Spirits of ammonia.

SALAAM
Sa*laam", n.

Defn: Same as Salam.
Finally, Josiah might have made his salaam to the exciseman just as
he was folding up that letter. Prof. Wilson.

SALAAM
Sa*laam", v. i.

Defn: To make or perform a salam.
I have salaamed and kowtowed to him. H. James.

SALABILITY
Sal`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being salable; salableness. Duke of
Argyll.

SALABLE
Sal"a*ble, a. Etym: [From Sale.]

Defn: Capable of being sold; fit to be sold; finding a ready market.
 -- Sal"a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Sal"a*bly, adv.

SALACIOUS
Sa*la"cious, n. Etym: [L. salax, -acis, fond of leaping, lustful, fr.
salire to leap. See Salient.]

Defn: Having a propensity to venery; lustful; lecherous. Dryden.
 -- Sa*la"cious*ly, dv.
 -- Sa*la"cious*ness, n.

SALACITY
Sa*lac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. salacitas: cf. F. salacite]

Defn: Strong propensity to venery; lust; lecherousness.

SALAD
Sal"ad, n. Etym: [F. salade, OIt. salata, It. insalata, fr. salare to
salt, fr. L. sal salt. See Salt, and cf. Slaw.]

1. A preparation of vegetables, as lettuce, celery, water cress,
onions, etc., usually dressed with salt, vinegar, oil, and spice, and
eaten for giving a relish to other food; as, lettuce salad; tomato
salad, etc.
Leaves eaten raw termed salad. I. Watts.

2. A dish composed of chopped meat or fish, esp. chicken or lobster,
mixed with lettuce or other vegetables, and seasoned with oil,
vinegar, mustard, and other condiments; as, chicken salad; lobster
salad. Salad burnet (Bot.), the common burnet (Poterium Sanguisorba),
sometimes eaten as a salad in Italy.

SALADE
Sal"ade, n.

Defn: A helmet. See Sallet.

SALADING
Sal"ad*ing, n.

Defn: Vegetable for salad.

SALAERATUS
Sal`?*ra"tus, n.

Defn: See Saleratus.

SALAGANE
Sal"a*gane, n. Etym: [From the Chinese name.] (Zool.)

Defn: The esculent swallow. See under Esculent.

SALAL-BERRY
Sal"al-ber`ry, n. Etym: [Probably of American Indian origin.] (Bot.)

Defn: The edible fruit of the Gaultheria Shallon, an ericaceous shrub
found from California northwards. The berries are about the size of a
common grape and of a dark purple color.

SALAM
Sa*lam (sa*lam"), n. Etym: [Ar. salam peace, safety.]

Defn: A salutation or compliment of ceremony in the east by word or
act; an obeisance, performed by bowing very low and placing the right
palm on the forehead. [Written also salaam.]

SALAMANDER
Sal"a*man`der, n. Etym: [F. salamandre, L. salamandra, Gr. samander,
samandel.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of Urodela, belonging to
Salamandra, Amblystoma, Plethodon, and various allied genera,
especially those that are more or less terrestrial in their habits.

Note: The salamanders have, like lizards, an elongated body, four
feet, and a long tail, but are destitute of scales. They are true
Amphibia, related to the frogs. Formerly, it was a superstition that
the salamander could live in fire without harm, and even extinguish
it by the natural coldness of its body.
I have maintained that salamander of yours with fire any time this
two and thirty years. Shak.
Whereas it is commonly said that a salamander extinguisheth fire, we
have found by experience that on hot coals, it dieth immediately. Sir
T. Browne.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The pouched gopher (Geomys tuza) of the Southern United States.

3. A culinary utensil of metal with a plate or disk which is heated,
and held over pastry, etc., to brown it.

4. A large poker. [prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

5. (Metal.)

Defn: Solidofied material in a furnace hearth. Giant salamander.
(Zool.) See under Giant.
 -- Salamander's hair or wool (Min.), a species of asbestus or
mineral flax. [Obs.] Bacon.

SALAMANDRINA
Sal`a*man*dri"na, n.; pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A suborder of Urodela, comprising salamanders.

SALAMANDRINE
Sal`a*man"drine, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a salamander; enduring fire.
Addison.

SALAMANDROID
Sal`a*man"droid, a Etym: [Salamander + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the salamanders.

SALAMANDROIDEA
sal`a*man*droi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of Amphibia including the Salamanders and allied
groups; the Urodela.

SALAMSTONE
Sal"am*stone` ( or ), n. (Min.)

Defn: A kind of blue sapphire brought from Ceylon. Dana.

SALANGANA
Sa*lan"ga*na, n.

Defn: The salagane.

SALARIED
Sal"a*ried, a.

Defn: Receiving a salary; paid by a salary; having a salary attached;
as, a salaried officer; a salaried office.

SALARY
Sal"a*ry, a. Etym: [L. salarius.]

Defn: Saline [Obs.]

SALARY
Sal"a*ry, n.; pl. Salaries. Etym: [F. salarie, L. salarium,
originally, salt money, the money given to the Roman soldiers for
salt, which was a part of thir pay, fr. salarius belonging to salt,
fr. sal salt. See Salt.]

Defn: The recompense or consideration paid, or stipulated to be paid,
to a person at regular intervals for services; fixed wages, as by the
year, quarter, or month; stipend; hire.
This is hire and salary, not revenge. Shak.

Note: Recompense for services paid at, or reckoned by, short
intervals, as a day or week, is usually called wages.

Syn.
 -- Stipend; pay; wages; hire; allowance.

SALARY
Sal"a*ry v. t. [imp. & p. p. Salaried; p. pr. & vb. n. Salarying.]

Defn: To pay, or agree to pay, a salary to; to attach salary to; as,
to salary a clerk; to salary a position.

SALE
Sale, n.

Defn: See 1st Sallow. [Obs.] Spenser.

SALE
Sale, n. Etym: [Icel. sala, sal, akin to E.sell. See Sell, v. t.]

1. The act of selling; the transfer of property, or a contract to
transfer the ownership of property, from one person to another for a
valuable consideration, or for a price in money.

2. Opportunity of selling; demand; market.
They shall have ready sale for them. Spenser.

3. Public disposal to the highest bidder, or exposure of goods in
market; auction. Sir W. Temple. Bill of sale. See under Bill.
 -- Of sale, On sale, For sale, to be bought or sold; offered to
purchasers; in the market.
 -- To set to sale, to offer for sale; to put up for purchase; to
make merchandise of. [Obs.] Milton.

SALEABLE; SALEABLY
Sale"a*ble, a., Sale"a*bly, adv., etc.

Defn: See Salable, Salably, etc.

SALEB
Sal"eb, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Salep.

SALEBROSITY
Sal`e*bros"i*ty, n.

Defn: Roughness or ruggedness. [Obs.] Feltham.

SALEBROUS
Sal"e*brous, a. Etym: [L. salebosus, fr. salebra a rugged road, fr.
salire to leap.]

Defn: Rough; rugged. [Obs.]

SALEP
Sal"ep, n. Etym: [Ar. sahleb, perhaps a corruption of an Arabic word
for fox, one Ar. name of the orchis signifying literally, fox's
testicles: cf. F. salep.] [Written also saleb, salop, and saloop.]

Defn: The dried tubers of various species of Orchis, and Eulophia. It
is used to make a nutritious beverage by treating the powdered
preparation with hot water. U. S. Disp.

SALERATUS
Sal`e*ra"tus, n. Etym: [NL. sal aeratus; -- so called because it is a
source of fixed air (carbon dioxide). See Sal, and and Aerated.] (Old
Chem.)

Defn: Aerated salt; a white crystalline substance having an alkaline
taste and reaction, consisting of sodium bicarbonate (see under
Sodium.) It is lagerly used in cooking, with sour milk (lactic acid)
or cream of tartar as a substitute for yeast. It is also an
ingridient of most baking powders, and is used in the preparation of
effervescing drinks.

SALESMAN
Sales"man, n.; pl. Salesmen. Etym: [Sale + man.]

Defn: One who sells anything; one whose occupation is to sell goods
or merchandise.

SALESWOMAN
Sales"wom`an, n.; pl. Saleswomen (.

Defn: A woman whose occupation is to sell goods or merchandise.

SALEWORK
Sale"work`, n.

Defn: Work or things made for sale; hence, work done carelessly or
slightingly. Shak.

SALIAN
Sa"lian, a.

Defn: Denoting a tribe of Franks who established themselves early in
the fourth century on the river Sala [now Yssel]; Salic.
 -- n.

Defn: A Salian Frank.

SALIANT
Sa"li*ant, a. (Her.)

Defn: Same as Salient.

SALIAUNCE
Sal"i*aunce, a. Etym: [See Sally.]

Defn: Salience; onslaught. [Obs.] "So fierce saliaunce." Spenser.

SALIC
Sal"ic, a. Etym: [F. salique, fr. the Salian Franks, who, in the
fifth century, formed a body of laws called in latin leges Salic?.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Salian Franks, or to the Salic law so
called. [Also salique.] Salic law. (a) A code of laws formed by the
Salian Franks in the fifth century. By one provision of this code
women were excluded from the inheritance of landed property. (b)
Specifically, in modern times, a law supposed to be a special
application of the above-mentioned provision, in accordance with
which males alone can inherit the throne. This law has obtained in
France, and at times in other countries of Europe, as Spain.

SALICACEOUS
Sal`i*ca"ceous, a. Etym: [L. salix, -icis, the willow.]

Defn: Belonging or relating to the willow.

SALICIN
Sal"i*cin, n. Etym: [L. salix, -icis, a willow: cf. F. salicine. See
Sallow the tree.] (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the leaves of several species of willow
(Salix) and poplar, and extracted as a bitter white crystalline
substance.salicyl alcohol glucoside, salicyl alcohol b-D-
glucopyranoside, saligenin b-D-glucopyranoside, C13H18O7. It is used
in biochemistry as a standard substrate for evaluating the potency of
b-glucosidase in enzymatic preparations. It is also an analgesic.

SALICYL
Sal"i*cyl, n. Etym: [Salicin + -yl.] (Chem.)

Defn: The hypothetical radical of salicylic acid and of certain
related compounds.

SALICYLAL
Sal"i*cyl`al, n. Etym: [Salicylic + aldehide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A thin, fragrant, colorless oil, HO.C6H4.CHO, found in the
flowers of meadow sweet (Spir?a), and also obtained by oxidation of
saligenin, etc. It reddens on exposure. Called also salycylol,
salicylic aldehyde, and formerly salicylous, or spiroylous, acid.

SALICYLATE
Sal"i*cyl`ate (-ayt), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of salicylic acid.

SALICYLIC
Sal`i*cyl"ic, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or designating, an acid formerly
obtained by fusing salicin with potassium hydroxide, and now made in
large quantities from phenol (carbolic acid) by the action of carbon
dioxide on heated sodium phenolate. It is a white crystalline
substance. It is used as an antiseptic, and in its salts in the
treatment of rheumatism. Called also hydroxybenzoic acid.

SALICYLIDE
Sal"i*cyl`ide, n. Etym: [Salicylic + anhydride.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained by dehydration of
salicylic acid.

SALICYLITE
Sal"i*cyl`ite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A compound of salicylal; -- named after the analogy of a salt.

SALICYLOL
Sal"i*cyl`ol, n. Etym: [Salicylic + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Salicylal.

SALICYLOUS
Sa*lic"y*lous ( or ), a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, a substance called salicylous
acid, and now salicylal. [Obs.]

SALIENCE
Sa"li*ence, n. Etym: [See Salient.]

1. That quality or condition of being salient; a leaping; a springing
forward; an assaulting.

2. The quality or state of projecting, or being projected;
projection; protrusion. Sir W. Hamilton.

SALIENCY
Sa"li*en*cy, n.

Defn: Quality of being salient; hence, vigor. "A fatal lack of poetic
saliency." J. Morley.

SALIENT
Sa"li*ent, a. Etym: [L. saliens, -entis, p.pr. of salire to leap; cf.
F. saillant. See Sally, n. & v. i..]

1. Moving by leaps or springs; leaping; bounding; jumping. "Frogs and
salient animals." Sir T. Browne.

2. Shooting out up; springing; projecting.
He had in himself a salient, living spring of generous and manly
action. Burke.

3. Hence, figuratively, forcing itself on the attention; prominent;
conspicuous; noticeable.
He [Grenville] had neither salient traits, nor general
comprehensiveness of mind. Bancroft.

4. (Math. & Fort.)

Defn: Projectiong outwardly; as, a salient angle; -- opposed to
reentering. See Illust. of Bastion.

5. (Her.)

Defn: Represented in a leaping position; as, a lion salient. Salient
angle. See Salient, a., 4.
 -- Salient polygon (Geom.), a polygon all of whose angles are
salient.
 -- Salient polyhedron (Geom.), a polyhedron all of whose solid
angles are salient.

SALIENT
Sa"li*ent, a. (Fort.)

Defn: A salient angle or part; a projection.

SALIENTLY
Sa"li*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a salient manner.

SALIFEROUS
Sa*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. sal salt + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing, or impregnated with, salt. Saliferous rocks (Geol.),
the New Red Sandstone system of some geologists; -- so called
because, in Europe, this formation contains beds of salt. The
saliferous beds of New York State belong largely to the Salina period
of the Upper Silurian. See the Chart of Geology.

SALIFIABLE
Sal"i*fi`a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. salifiable. See Salify.] (Chem.)

Defn: Capable of neutralizing an acid to form a salt; -- said of
bases; thus, ammonia is salifiable.

SALIFICATION
Sal`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. salification.] (Chem.)

Defn: The act, process, or result of salifying; the state of being
salified.

SALIFY
Sal"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Salified; p. pr. & vb. n. Salifying.]
Etym: [F. salifier; from L. sal salt + -ficare (only in comp.) to
make. See -fy.] (Chem.)
(a) To combine or impregnate with a salt.
(b) To form a salt with; to convert into a salt; as, to salify a base
or an acid.

SALIGENIN
Sa*lig"e*nin, n. Etym: [Salicin + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A phenol alcohol obtained, by the decomposition of salicin, as
a white crystalline substance; -- called also hydroxy-benzyl alcohol.

SALIGOT
Sal"i*got, n. Etym: [F.] (Bot.)

Defn: The water chestnut (Trapa natans).

SALIMETER
Sal*im"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. sal salt + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for measuring the amount of salt present in any
given solution. [Written also salometer.]

SALIMETRY
Sal*im"e*try, n.

Defn: The art or process of measuring the amount of salt in a
substance.

SALINA
Sa*li"na, n. Etym: [Cf. L. salinae, pl., salt works, from sal salt.
See Saline, a.]

1. A salt marsh, or salt pond, inclosed from the sea.

2. Salt works.

SALINA PERIOD
Sa*li"na pe"ri*od. Etym: [So called from Salina, a town in New York.]
(Geol.)

Defn: The period in which the American Upper Silurian system,
containing the brine-producing rocks of central New York, was formed.
See the Chart of Geology.

SALINATION
Sal`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: The act of washing with salt water. [R. & Obs..] Greenhill.

SALINE
Sa"line ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [F. salin, fr. L. sal salt: cf. L.
salinae salt works, salinum saltcellar. See Salt.]

1. Consisting of salt, or containing salt; as, saline particles;
saline substances; a saline cathartic.

2. Of the quality of salt; salty; as, a saline taste.

SALINE
Sa"line ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [Cf. F. saline. See Saline, a.]

Defn: A salt spring; a place where salt water is collected in the
earth.

SALINE
Sal"ine, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A crude potash obtained from beet-root residues and other
similar sources. [Written also salin.]

2. (Med. Chem.)

Defn: A metallic salt; esp., a salt of potassium, sodium, lithium, or
magnesium, used in medicine.

SALINENESS
Sa*line"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being salt; saltness.

SALINIFEROUS
Sal`i*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Saline + -ferous.]

Defn: Same as Saliferous.

SALINIFORM
Sa*lin"i*form, a.

Defn: Having the form or the qualities of a salt, especially of
common salt.

SALINITY
Sa*lin"i*ty, n.

Defn: Salineness. Carpenter.

SALINOMETER
Sal`i*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Saline + -meter.]

Defn: A salimeter.

SALINOUS
Sa*lin"ous, a.

Defn: Saline. [Obs.]

SALIQUE
Sal"ique ( or ), a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Salic. Shak.
She fulmined out her scorn of laws salique. Tennyson.

SALIRETIN
Sal`i*re"tin, n. Etym: [Saligenin + Gr. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow amorphous resinoid substance obtained by the action of
dilute acids on saligenin.

SALISBURIA
Sal`is*bu"ri*a, n. Etym: [Named after R. A. Salisbury, an English
botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: The ginkgo tree (Ginkgo biloba, or Salisburia adiantifolia).

SALITE
Sal"ite, v. t. Etym: [L. salitus, p.p. of salire to salt, fr. sal
salt.]

Defn: To season with salt; to salt. [Obs.]

SALITE
Sa"lite, n. Etym: [So called from Sala, a town in Sweden.] (Min.)

Defn: A massive lamellar variety of pyroxene, of a dingy green color.
[Written also sahlite.]

SALIVA
Sa*li"va, n. Etym: [L.; cf. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: The secretion from the salivary glands.

Note: In man the saliva is a more or less turbid and slighty viscid
fluid, generally of an alkaline reaction, and is secreted by the
parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual glands. In the mouth the saliva
is mixed with the secretion from the buccal glands. The secretions
from the individual salivary glands have their own special
characteristics, and these are not the same in all animals. In man
and many animals mixed saliva, i.e., saliva composed of the
secretions of all three of the salivary glands, is an important
degestive fluid on account of the presence of the peculiar enzyme,
ptyalin.

SALIVAL
Sa*li"val, a.

Defn: Salivary.

SALIVANT
Sal"i*vant, a. Etym: [L. salivans, p.pr. of salivare. See Salivate.]

Defn: Producing salivation.

SALIVANT
Sal"i*vant, n.

Defn: That which produces salivation.

SALIVARY
Sal"i*va*ry, a. Etym: [L. salivarius slimy, clammy: cf. F.
salivaire.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to saliva; producing or carrying saliva; as,
the salivary ferment; the salivary glands; the salivary ducts, etc.

SALIVATE
Sal"i*vate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Salivated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Salivating.] Etym: [L. salivatus, p.p. of salivare to salivate. See
Saliva.]

Defn: To produce an abnormal flow of saliva in; to produce salivation
or ptyalism in, as by the use of mercury. over.; as, salivate over
the prospects of high profits from an enterprise.

Note: Probably influenced by the experiments of Pavlov, who trained
dogs to salivate at the sound of a bell, by previously ringing the
bell immediately prior to feeding them.

SALIVATION
Sal`i*va"tion, n. Etym: [L. salivatio: cf. F. salivation.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The act or process of salivating; an excessive secretion of
saliva, often accompained with soreness of the mouth and gums;
ptyalism.

Note: It may be induced by direct chemical or mechanical stimulation,
as in mastication of some tasteless substance like rubber, or
indirectly by some agent which affects the whole system, as mercury
compounds.

SALIVOUS
Sa*li"vous, a. Etym: [L. salivosus: cf. F. saliveux.]

Defn: Pertaining to saliva; of the nature of saliva.

SALIX
Sa"lix, n.; pl. Salices. Etym: [L., the willow.] (Bot.)
(a) A genus of trees or shrubs including the willow, osier, and the
like, growing usually in wet grounds.
(b) A tree or shrub of any kind of willow.

SALLENDERS
Sal"len*ders, n. pl. Etym: [F. solandres, solandre.] (Far.)

Defn: An eruption on the hind leg of a horse. [Written also
sellanders, and sellenders.]
On the inside of the hock, or a little below it, as well as at the
bend of the knee, there is occasionally a scurfy eruption called
"mallenders" in the fore leg, and "sallenders" in the hind leg.
Youatt.

SALLET
Sal"let, n. Etym: [F. salade, Sp. celada, or It. celata, fr. L.
(cassis) caelata, fr. caelare, caelatum, to engrave in relief. So
called from the figures engraved upon it.]

Defn: A light kind of helmet, with or without a visor, introduced
during the 15th century. [Written also salade.]
Then he must have a sallet wherewith his head may be saved. Latimer.

SALLET; SALLETING
Sal"let, Sal"let*ing, n.

Defn: Salad. [Obs.] Shak.

SALLIANCE
Sal"li*ance, n.

Defn: Salience. [Obs.]

SALLOW
Sal"low, n. Etym: [OE. salwe, AS. sealth; akin to OHG. salaha, G.
salwiede, Icel. selja L. salix, Ir. sail, saileach, Gael. seileach,
W. helyg, Gr.

1. The willow; willow twigs. [Poetic] Tennyson.
And bend the pliant sallow to a shield. Fawkes.
The sallow knows the basketmaker's thumb. Emerson.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to certain species of willow, especially those
which do not have flexible shoots, as Salix caprea, S. cinerea, etc.
Sallow thorn (Bot.), a European thorny shrub (Hippophae rhamnoides)
much like an El?agnus. The yellow berries are sometimes used for
making jelly, and the plant affords a yellow dye.

SALLOW
Sal"low, a. [Compar. Sallower; superl. Sallowest.] Etym: [AS. salu;
akin to D. zaluw, OHG. salo, Icel. solr yellow.]

Defn: Having a yellowish color; of a pale, sickly color, tinged with
yellow; as, a sallow skin. Shak.

SALLOW
Sal"low, v. t.

Defn: To tinge with sallowness. [Poetic]
July breathes hot, sallows the crispy fields. Lowell.

SALLOWISH
Sal"low*ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat sallow. Dickens.

SALLOWNESS
Sal"low*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being sallow. Addison.

SALLY
Sal"ly, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sallied; p. pr. & vb. n. Sallying.] Etym:
[F. saillir, fr. L. salire to leap, spring, akin to gr. Sallient,
Assail, Assault, Exult, Insult, Saltation, Saltire.]

Defn: To leap or rush out; to burst forth; to issue suddenly; as a
body of troops from a fortified place to attack besiegers; to make a
sally.
They break the truce, and sally out by night. Dryden.
The foe retires, -- she heads the sallying host. Byron.

SALLY
Sal"ly, n.; pl. Sallies. Etym: [F. saillie, fr. sailir. See Sally,
v.]

1. A leaping forth; a darting; a spring.

2. A rushing or bursting forth; a quick issue; a sudden eruption;
specifically, an issuing of troops from a place besieged to attack
the besiegers; a sortie.
Sallies were made by the Spaniards, but they were beaten in with
loss. Bacon.

3. An excursion from the usual track; range; digression; deviation.
Every one shall know a country better that makes often sallies into
it, and traverses it up and down, than he that . . . goes still round
in the same track. Locke.

4. A flight of fancy, liveliness, wit, or the like; a flashing forth
of a quick and active mind.
The unaffected mirth with which she enjoyed his sallies. Sir W.
Scott.

5. Transgression of the limits of soberness or steadiness; act of
levity; wild gayety; frolic; escapade.
The excursion was esteemed but a sally of youth. Sir H. Wotton.
Sally port. (a) (Fort.) A postern gate, or a passage underground,
from the inner to the outer works, to afford free egress for troops
in a sortie. (b) (Naval) A large port on each quarter of a fireship,
for the escape of the men into boats when the train is fired; a large
port in an old-fashioned three-decker or a large modern ironclad.

SALLY LUNN
Sal"ly Lunn". Etym: [From a woman, Sally Lunn, who is said to have
first made the cakes, and sold them in the streets of Bath, Eng.]

Defn: A tea cake slighty sweetened, and raised with yeast, baked in
the form of biscuits or in a thin loaf, and eaten hot with butter.

SALLYMAN
Sal"ly*man, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The velella; -- called also saleeman.

SALM
Salm, n.

Defn: Psalm. [Obs.] Piers plowman.

SALMAGUNDI
Sal`ma*gun"di, n. Etym: [F. salmigondis of uncertain origin; perhaps
from L. salgama condita, pl.; salgama pickles + condita preserved
(see Condite); or from the Countess Salmagondi, lady of honor to
Maria de Medici, who is said to have invented it; or cf. It. salame
salt meat, and F. salmis a ragout.]

1. A mixture of chopped meat and pickled herring, with oil, vinegar,
pepper, and onions. Johnson.

2. Hence, a mixture of various ingredients; an olio or medley; a
potpourri; a miscellany. W. Irving.

SALMI
Sal"mi, n. (Cookery)

Defn: Same as Salmis.

SALMIAC
Sal"mi*ac, n. Etym: [Cf. F. salmiac, G. salmiak.] (Old Chem.)

Defn: Sal ammoniac. See under Sal.

SALMIS
Sal`mis", n. Etym: [F.] (Cookery)

Defn: A ragout or partky roasted game stewed with sauce, wine, bread,
and condiments suited to provoke appetite.

SALMON
Salm"on, n.; pl. Salmons or (collectively) Salmon. Etym: [OE.
saumoun, salmon, F. saumon, fr. L. salmo, salmonis perhaps from
salire to leap. Cf. Sally, v.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of fishes of the genus Salmo and
allied genera. The common salmon (Salmo salar) of Northern Europe and
Eastern North America, and the California salmon, or quinnat, are the
most important species. They are extensively preserved for food. See
Quinnat.

Note: The salmons ascend rivers and penetrate to their head streams
to spawn. They are remarkably strong fishes, and will even leap over
considerable falls which lie in the way of their progress. The common
salmon has been known to grow to the weight of seventy-five pounds;
more generally it is from fifteen to twenty-five pounds. Young salmon
are called parr, peal, smolt, and grilse. Among the true salmons are:
Black salmon, or Lake salmon, the namaycush.
 -- Dog salmon, a salmon of Western North America (Oncorhynchus
keta).
 -- Humpbacked salmon, a Pacific-coast salmon (Oncorhynchus
gorbuscha).
 -- King salmon, the quinnat.
 -- Landlocked salmon, a variety of the common salmon (var. Sebago),
long confined in certain lakes in consequence of obstructions that
prevented it from returning to the sea. This last is called also
dwarf salmon. Among fishes of other families which are locally and
erroneously called salmon are: the pike perch, called jack salmon;
the spotted, or southern, squeteague; the cabrilla, called kelp
salmon; young pollock, called sea salmon; and the California
yellowtail.

2. A reddish yellow or orange color, like the flesh of the salmon.
Salmon berry (Bot.), a large red raspberry growing from Alaska to
California, the fruit of the Rubus Nutkanus.
 -- Salmon killer (Zool.), a stickleback (Gasterosteus cataphractus)
of Western North America and Northern Asia.
 -- Salmon ladder, salmon stair. See Fish ladder, under Fish.
 -- Salmon peel, a young salmon.
 -- Salmon pipe, a certain device for catching salmon. Crabb.
 -- Salmon trout. (Zool.) (a) The European sea trout (Salmo trutta).
It resembles the salmon, but is smaller, and has smaller and more
numerous scales. (b) The American namaycush. (c) A name that is also
applied locally to the adult black spotted trout (Salmo purpuratus),
and to the steel head and other large trout of the Pacific coast.

SALMON
Salm"on, a.

Defn: Of a reddish yellow or orange color, like that of the flesh of
the salmon.

SALMONET
Salm"on*et, n. Etym: [Cf. Samlet.] (Zool.)

Defn: A salmon of small size; a samlet.

SALMONOID
Sal"mon*oid, a. Etym: [Salmon + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Like, or pertaining to, the Salmonid?, a family of fishes
including the trout and salmon.
 -- n.

Defn: Any fish of the family Salmonid?.

SALOGEN
Sal"o*gen, n. Etym: [L. sal salt + -gen.] (Chem.)

Defn: A halogen. [Obs.]

SALOL
Sal"ol, n. Etym: [Salicylic + -ol.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance consisting of phenol salicylate.

SALOMETER
sa*lom"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Salimeter.

SALOMETRY
Sa*lom"e*try, n.

Defn: Salimetry.

SALON
Sa`lon", n. Etym: [F. See Saloon.]

Defn: An apartment for the reception of company; hence, in the
plural, faschionable parties; circles of fashionable society.

SALON
Sa`lon", n.

Defn: An apartment for the reception and exhibition of works of art;
hence, an annual exhibition of paintings, sculptures, etc., held in
Paris by the Society of French Artists; -- sometimes called the Old
Salon. New Salon is a popular name for an annual exhibition of
paintings, sculptures, etc., held in Paris at the Champs de Mars, by
the Societe Nationale des Beaux-Arts (National Society of Fine Arts),
a body of artists who, in 1890, seceded from the Societe des Artistes
Francais (Society of French Artists).

SALOON
Sa*loon", n. Etym: [F. salon (cf. It. salone), fr. F. salle a large
room, a hall, of German or Dutch origin; cf. OHG. sal house, hall, G.
saal; akin to AS. s?l, sele, D. zaal, Icel. salr, Goth. saljan to
dwell, and probably to L. solum ground. Cf. Sole of the foot, Soil
ground, earth.]

1. A spacious and elegant apartment for the reception of company or
for works of art; a hall of reception, esp. a hall for public
entertainments or amusements; a large room or parlor; as, the saloon
of a steamboat.
The gilden saloons in which the first magnates of the realm . . .
gave banquets and balls. Macaulay.

2. Popularly, a public room for specific uses; esp., a barroom or
grogshop; as, a drinking saloon; an eating saloon; a dancing saloon.
We hear of no hells, or low music halls, or low dancing saloons [at
Athens.] J. P. Mahaffy.

SALOOP
Sa*loop", n.

Defn: An aromatic drink prepared from sassafras bark and other
ingredients, at one time much used in London. J. Smith (Dict. econ.
Plants). Saloop bush (Bot.), an Australian shrub (Rhagodia hastata)
of the Goosefoot family, used for fodder.

SALP
Salp, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of Salpa, or of the family Salpid?.

SALPA
Sal"pa, n.; pl. L. Salp?, E. Salpas. Etym: [NL.: cf. L. salpa a kind
of stockfish.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of transparent, tubular, free-swimming oceanic
tunicates found abundantly in all the warmer latitudes. See
Illustration in Appendix.

Note: Each species exists in two distinct forms, one of which lives
solitary, and produces, by budding from an internal organ, a series
of the other kind. These are united together, side by side, so as to
form a chain, or cluster, often of large size. Each of the
individuals composing the chain carries a single egg, which develops
into the solitary kind.

SALPIAN; SALPID
Sal"pi*an, Sal"pid, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A salpa.

SALPICON
Sal"pi*con, n. Etym: [F. salpicon, Sp. salpicon.]

Defn: Chopped meat, bread, etc., used to stuff legs of veal or other
joints; stuffing; farce. Bacon.

SALPINGITIS
Sal`pin*gi"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Salpinx, and -itis.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the salpinx.

SALPINX
Sal"pinx, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Old Anat.)

Defn: The Eustachian tube, or the Fallopian tube.

SALSAFY
Sal"sa*fy, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Salsify.

SALSAMENTARIOUS
Sal`sa*men*ta"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. salsamentarius, fr. salsamentum
brine, pickled fish, fr. salsus salted, p.p. of salire to salt.]

Defn: Salt; salted; saline. [R.]

SALSE
Salse, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A mud volcano, the water of which is often impregnated with
salts, whence the name.

SALSIFY
Sal"si*fy, n. Etym: [F. salsifis.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Oyster plant (a), under Oyster.

SALSO-ACID
Sal"so-ac`id, a. Etym: [L. salsus salted, salt + acidus acid.]

Defn: Having a taste compounded of saltness and acidity; both salt
and acid. [R.]

SALSODA
Sal`so"da, n.

Defn: See Sal soda, under Sal.

SALSOLA
Sal"so*la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. salsus salt, because they contain
alkaline salts.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the glasswort. See Glasswort.

SALSUGINOUS
sal*su"gi*nous, a. Etym: [L. salsugo, -ginis, saltness from salsus
salted, salt: cf. F. salsugineux.] (Bot.)

Defn: Growing in brackish places or in salt marches.

SALT
Salt, n. Etym: [AS. sealt; akin to OS. & OFries. salt, D. zout, G.
salz, Icel., Sw., & Dan. salt, L. sal, Gr. sole, Ir. & Gael. salann,
W. halen, of unknown origin. Cf. Sal, Salad, Salary, Saline, Sauce,
Sausage.]

1. The chloride of sodium, a substance used for seasoning food, for
the preservation of meat, etc. It is found native in the earth, and
is also produced, by evaporation and crystallization, from sea water
and other water impregnated with saline particles.

2. Hence, flavor; taste; savor; smack; seasoning.
Though we are justices and doctors and churchmen . . . we have some
salt of our youth in us. Shak.

3. Hence, also, piquancy; wit; sense; as, Attic salt.

4. A dish for salt at table; a saltcellar.
I out and bought some things; among others, a dozen of silver salts.
Pepys.

5. A sailor; -- usually qualified by old. [Colloq.]
Around the door are generally to be seen, laughing and gossiping,
clusters of old salts. Hawthorne.

6. (Chem.)

Defn: The neutral compound formed by the union of an acid base; thus,
sulphuric acid and iron form the salt sulphate of iron or green
vitriol.

Note: Except in case of ammonium salts, accurately speaking, it is
the acid radical which unites with the base or basic radical, with
the elimination of hydrogen, of water, or of analogous compounds as
side products. In the case of diacid and triacid bases, and of
dibasic and tribasic acids, the mutual neutralization may vary in
degree, producing respectively basic, neutral, or acid salts See
Phrases below.

7. Fig.: That which preserves from corruption or error; that which
purifies; a corrective; an antiseptic; also, an allowance or
deduction; as, his statements must be taken with a grain of salt.
Ye are the salt of the earth. Matt. v. 13.

8. pl.

Defn: Any mineral salt used as an aperient or cathartic, especially
Epsom salts, Rochelle salt, or Glauber's salt.

9. pl.

Defn: Marches flooded by the tide. [Prov. Eng.] Above the salt, Below
the salt, phrases which have survived the old custom, in the houses
of people of rank, of placing a large saltcellar near the middle of a
long table, the places above which were assigned to the guests of
distinction, and those below to dependents, inferiors, and poor
relations. See Saltfoot.
His fashion is not to take knowledge of him that is beneath him in
clothes. He never drinks below the salt. B. Jonson.
-- Acid salt (Chem.) (a) A salt derived from an acid which has
several replaceable hydrogen atoms which are only partially exchanged
for metallic atoms or basic radicals; as, acid potassium sulphate is
an acid salt. (b) A salt, whatever its constitution, which merely
gives an acid reaction; thus, copper sulphate, which is composed of a
strong acid united with a weak base, is an acid salt in this sense,
though theoretically it is a neutral salt.
 -- Alkaline salt (Chem.), a salt which gives an alkaline reaction,
as sodium carbonate.
 -- Amphid salt (Old Chem.), a salt of the oxy type, formerly
regarded as composed of two oxides, an acid and a basic oxide.
[Obsolescent] -- Basic salt (Chem.) (a) A salt which contains more of
the basic constituent than is required to neutralize the acid. (b) An
alkaline salt.
 -- Binary salt (Chem.), a salt of the oxy type conveniently regarded
as composed of two ingredients (analogously to a haloid salt), viz.,
a metal and an acid radical.
 -- Double salt (Chem.), a salt regarded as formed by the union of
two distinct salts, as common alum, potassium aluminium sulphate. See
under Double.
 -- Epsom salts. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Essential salt (Old Chem.), a salt obtained by crystalizing plant
juices.
 -- Ethereal salt. (Chem.) See under Ethereal.
 -- Glauber's salt or salts. See in Vocabulary.
 -- Haloid salt (Chem.), a simple salt of a halogen acid, as sodium
chloride.
 -- Microcosmic salt. (Chem.). See under Microcosmic.
 -- Neutral salt. (Chem.) (a A salt in which the acid and base (in
theory) neutralize each other. (b) A salt which gives a neutral
reaction.
 -- Oxy salt (Chem.), a salt derived from an oxygen acid.
 -- Per salt (Old Chem.), a salt supposed to be derived from a
peroxide base or analogous compound. [Obs.] -- Permanent salt, a salt
which undergoes no change on exposure to the air.
 -- Proto salt (Chem.), a salt derived from a protoxide base or
analogous compound.
 -- Rochelle salt. See under Rochelle.
 -- Salt of amber (Old Chem.), succinic acid.
 -- Salt of colcothar (Old Chem.), green vitriol, or sulphate of
iron.
 -- Salt of hartshorn. (Old Chem.) (a) Sal ammoniac, or ammonium
chloride. (b) Ammonium carbonate. Cf. Spirit of hartshorn, under
Hartshorn.
 -- Salt of lemons. (Chem.) See Salt of sorrel, below.
 -- Salt of Saturn (Old Chem.), sugar of lead; lead acetate; -- the
alchemical of lead being Saturn.
 -- Salt of Seignette. Same as Rochelle salt.
 -- Salt of soda (Old Chem.), sodium carbonate.
 -- Salt of sorrel (Old Chem.), acid potassium oxalate, or potassium
quadroxalate, used as a solvent for ink stains; -- so called because
found in the sorrel, or Oxalis. Also sometimes inaccurately called
salt of lemon.
 -- Salt of tartar (Old Chem.), potassium carbonate; -- so called
because formerly made by heating cream of tartar, or potassium
tartrate. [Obs.] -- Salt of Venus (Old Chem.), blue vitriol; copper
sulphate; -- the alchemical name of copper being Venus.
 -- Salt of wisdom. See Alembroth.
 -- Sedative salt (Old Med. Chem.), boric acid.
 -- Sesqui salt (Chem.), a salt derived from a sesquioxide base or
analogous compound.
 -- Spirit of salt. (Chem.) See under Spirit.
 -- Sulpho salt (Chem.), a salt analogous to an oxy salt, but
containing sulphur in place of oxygen.

SALT
Salt, a. [Compar. Salter; superl. Saltest.] Etym: [AS. sealt, salt.
See Salt, n.]

1. Of or relating to salt; abounding in, or containing, salt;
prepared or preserved with, or tasting of, salt; salted; as, salt
beef; salt water. "Salt tears." Chaucer.

2. Overflowed with, or growing in, salt water; as, a salt marsh; salt
grass.

3. Fig.: Bitter; sharp; pungent.
I have a salt and sorry rheum offends me. Shak.

4. Fig.: Salacious; lecherous; lustful. Shak. Salt acid (Chem.),
hydrochloric acid.
 -- Salt block, an apparatus for evaporating brine; a salt factory.
Knight.
 -- Salt bottom, a flat piece of ground covered with saline
efforescences. [Western U.S.] bartlett.
 -- Salt cake (Chem.), the white caked mass, consisting of sodium
sulphate, which is obtained as the product of the first stage in the
manufacture of soda, according to Leblanc's process.
 -- Salt fish. (a) Salted fish, especially cod, haddock, and similar
fishes that have been salted and dried for food. (b) A marine fish.
 -- Salt garden, an arrangement for the natural evaporation of sea
water for the production of salt, employing large shallow basins
excavated near the seashore.
 -- Salt gauge, an instrument used to test the strength of brine; a
salimeter.
 -- Salt horse, salted beef. [Slang] -- Salt junk, hard salt beef for
use at sea. [Slang] -- Salt lick. See Lick, n.
 -- Salt marsh, grass land subject to the overflow of salt water.
 -- Salt-marsh caterpillar (Zool.), an American bombycid moth
(Spilosoma acre? which is very destructive to the salt-marsh grasses
and to other crops. Called also wooly bear. See Illust. under Moth,
Pupa, and Woolly bear, under Woolly.
 -- Salt-marsh fleabane (Bot.), a strong-scented composite herb
(Pluchea camphorata) with rayless purplish heads, growing in salt
marshes.
 -- Salt-marsh hen (Zool.), the clapper rail. See under Rail.
 -- Salt-marsh terrapin (Zool.), the diamond-back.
 -- Salt mine, a mine where rock salt is obtained.
 -- Salt pan. (a) A large pan used for making salt by evaporation;
also, a shallow basin in the ground where salt water is evaporated by
the heat of the sun. (b) pl. Salt works.
 -- Salt pit, a pit where salt is obtained or made.
 -- Salt rising, a kind of yeast in which common salt is a principal
ingredient. [U.S.] -- Salt raker, one who collects salt in natural
salt ponds, or inclosures from the sea.
 -- Salt sedative (Chem.), boracic acid. [Obs.] -- Salt spring, a
spring of salt water.
 -- Salt tree (Bot.), a small leguminous tree (Halimodendron
argenteum) growing in the salt plains of the Caspian region and in
Siberia.
 -- Salt water, water impregnated with salt, as that of the ocean and
of certain seas and lakes; sometimes, also tears.
Mine eyes are full of tears, I can not see; And yet salt water blinds
them not so much But they can see a sort of traitors here. Shak.
-- Salt-water sailor, an ocean mariner.
 -- Salt-water tailor. (Zool.) See Bluefish.

SALT
Salt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Salted; p. pr. & vb. n. Salting.]

1. To sprinkle, impregnate, or season with salt; to preserve with
salt or in brine; to supply with salt; as, to salt fish, beef, or
pork; to salt cattle.

2. To fill with salt between the timbers and planks, as a ship, for
the preservation of the timber. To salt a mine, to artfully deposit
minerals in a mine in order to deceive purchasers regarding its
value. [Cant] -- To salt away, To salt down, to prepare with, or pack
in, salt for preserving, as meat, eggs, etc.; hence, colloquially, to
save, lay up, or invest sagely, as money.

SALT
Salt, v. i.

Defn: To deposit salt as a saline solution; as, the brine begins to
salt.

SALT
Salt, n. Etym: [L. saltus, fr. salire to leap.]

Defn: The act of leaping or jumping; a leap. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SALTANT
Sal"tant, a. Etym: [L. saltans, p.pr. of saltare to dance, v. intens.
fr. salire to leap: cf. F. sautant. See Sally, v.]

1. Leaping; jumping; dancing.

2. (Her.)

Defn: In a leaping position; springing forward; -- applied especially
to the squirrel, weasel, and rat, also to the cat, greyhound, monkey,
etc.

SALTARELLA
Sal`ta*rel"la, n.

Defn: See Saltarello.

SALTARELLO
Sal`ta*rel"lo, n. Etym: [It., fr. L. saltare to jump.]

Defn: A popular Italian dance in quick 3-4 or 6-8 time, running
mostly in triplets, but with a hop step at the beginning of each
measure. See Tarantella.

SALTATE
Sal"tate, v. i. Etym: [See Saltant.]

Defn: To leap or dance. [R.]

SALTATION
Sal*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. saltatio: cf. F. saltation.]

1. A leaping or jumping.
Continued his saltation without pause. Sir W. Scott.

2. Beating or palpitation; as, the saltation of the great artery.

3. (Biol.)

Defn: An abrupt and marked variation in the condition or appearance
of a species; a sudden modification which may give rise to new races.
We greatly suspect that nature does make considerable jumps in the
way of variation now and then, and that these saltations give rise to
some of the gaps which appear to exist in the series of known forms.
Huxley.

SALTATORIA
Sal`ta*to"ri*a, n.; pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of Orthoptera including grasshoppers, locusts, and
crickets.

SALTATORIAL
Sal`ta*to"ri*al, a.

1. Relating to leaping; saltatory; as, saltatorial exercises.

2. (Zool.)
(a) Same as Saltatorious.
(b) Of or pertaining to the Saltatoria.

SALTATORIOUS
Sal`ta*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Capable of leaping; formed for leaping; saltatory; as, a
saltatorious insect or leg.

SALTATORY
Sal"ta*to"ry, a. Etym: [L. saltatorius. See Saltant, and cf.
Saltire.]

Defn: Leaping or dancing; having the power of, or used in, leaping or
dancing. Saltatory evolution (Biol.), a theory of evolution which
holds that the transmutation of species is not always gradual, but
that there may come sudden and marked variations. See Saltation.
 -- Saltatory spasm (Med.), an affection in which pressure of the
foot on a floor causes the patient to spring into the air, so as to
make repeated involuntary motions of hopping and jumping. J. Ross.

SALTBUSH
Salt"bush`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Australian plant (Atriplex nummularia) of the Goosefoot
family.

SALTCAT
Salt"cat`, n.

Defn: A mixture of salt, coarse meal lime, etc., attractive to
pigeons.

SALTCELLAR
Salt"cel*lar, n. Etym: [OE. saltsaler; salt + F. saliere saltcellar,
from L. sal salt. See Salt, and cf. Salary.]

Defn: Formerly a large vessel, now a small vessel of glass or other
material, used for holding salt on the table.

SALTER
Salt"er, n.

Defn: One who makes, sells, or applies salt; one who salts meat or
fish.

SALTERN
Salt"ern, n.

Defn: A building or place where salt is made by boiling or by
evaporation; salt works.

SALTFOOT
Salt"foot`, n.

Defn: A large saltcellar formerly placed near the center of the
table. The superior guests were seated above the saltfoot.

SALT-GREEN
Salt"-green, a.

Defn: Sea-green in color. Shak.

SALTIE
Salt"ie, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The European dab.

SALTIER
Sal"tier, n.

Defn: See Saltire.

SALTIGRADAE
Sal`ti*gra"d?, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Saltigrade.] (Zool.)

Defn: A tribe of spiders including those which lie in wait and leap
upon their prey; the leaping spiders.

SALTIGRADE
Sal"ti*grade, a. Etym: [L. saltus a leap + gradi to walk, go: cf. F.
saltigrade.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having feet or legs formed for leaping.

SALTIGRADE
Sal"ti*grade, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Saltigrad? a tribe of spiders which leap to seize
their prey.

SALTIMBANCO
Sal`tim*ban"co, n. Etym: [It., literally, one who leaps or mounts
upon a bench; saltare to leap + in in, upon + banco a bench.]

Defn: A mountebank; a quack. [Obs.] [Written also santibanco.]
Saltimbancos, quacksalvers, and charlatans. Sir T. browne.

SALTING
Salt"ing, n.

1. The act of sprinkling, impregnating, or furnishing, with salt.

2. A salt marsh.

SALTIRE
Sal"tire, n. Etym: [F. sautoir, fr. LL. saltatorium a sort of
stirrup, fr. L. saltatorius saltatory. See Saltatory, Sally, v.]
(Her.)

Defn: A St. Andrew's cross, or cross in the form of an X, -- one of
the honorable ordinaries.

SALTIREWISE
Sal"tire*wise`, adv. (Her.)

Defn: In the manner of a saltire; -- said especially of the blazoning
of a shield divided by two lines drawn in the direction of a bend and
a bend sinister, and crossing at the center.

SALTISH
Salt"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat salt.
 -- Salt"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Salt"ish*ness, n.

SALTLESS
Salt"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of salt; insipid.

SALTLY
Salt"ly, adv.

Defn: With taste of salt; in a salt manner.

SALTMOUTH
Salt"mouth`, n.

Defn: A wide-mouthed bottle with glass stopper for holding chemicals,
especially crystallized salts.

SALTNESS
Salt"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being salt, or state of being salt, or
impregnated with salt; salt taste; as, the saltness of sea water.

SALTPETER; SALTPETRE
Salt`pe"ter, Salt`pe"tre, (, n. Etym: [F. salpetre, NL. sal petrae,
literally, rock salt, or stone salt; Salt, and Petrify.] (Chem.)

Defn: Potassium nitrate; niter, a white crystalline substance, KNO3,
having a cooling saline taste, obtained by leaching from certain
soils in which it is produced by the process of nitrification (see
Nitrification, 2). It is a strong oxidizer, is the chief constituent
of gunpowder, and is also used as an antiseptic in curing meat, and
in medicine as a diuretic, diaphoretic, and refrigerant. Chili
salpeter (Chem.), sodium nitrate (distinguished from potassium
nitrate, or true salpeter), a white crystalline substance, NaNO3,
having a cooling, saline, slightly bitter taste. It is obtained by
leaching the soil of the rainless districts of Chili and Peru. It is
deliquescent and cannot be used in gunpowder, but is employed in the
production of nitric acid. Called also cubic niter.
 -- Saltpeter acid (Chem.), nitric acid; -- sometimes so called
because made from saltpeter.

SALTPETROUS
Salt`pe"trous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. salpetreux.]

Defn: Pertaining to saltpeter, or partaking of its qualities;
impregnated with saltpeter. [Obs.]

SALT RHEUM
Salt" rheum. (Med.)

Defn: A popular name, esp. in the United States, for various
cutaneous eruptions, particularly for those of eczema. See Eczema.

SALTWORT
Salt`wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several plants which grow on the seashore, as
the Batis maritima, and the glasswort. See Glasswort. Black saltwort,
the sea milkwort.

SALTY
Salt"y, a.

Defn: Somewhat salt; saltish.

SALUBRIOUS
Sa*lu"bri*ous, a. Etym: [L. salubris, or saluber, fr. salus health;
akin to salvus safe, sound, well. See Safe.]

Defn: Favorable to health; healthful; promoting health; as,
salubrious air, water, or climate.

Syn.
 -- Healthful; wholesome; healthy; salutary.
 -- Sa-lu"bri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Sa*lu"bri*ous*ness, n.

SALUBRITY
Sa*lu"bri*ty, n. Etym: [L. salubritas: cf. F. salubrite See
Salubrious.]

Defn: The quality of being salubrious; favorableness to the
preservation of health; salubriousness; wholesomeness; healthfulness;
as, the salubrity of the air, of a country, or a climate. "A sweet,
dry small of salubrity." G. W. Cable.

SALUE
Sa*lue", v. t. Etym: [F. saluer. See Salute.]

Defn: To salute. [Obs.]
There was no "good day" and no saluyng. Chaucer.

SALUTARY
Sal"u*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. salutaris, from salus, -utis, health
safety: cf. F. salutaire. See Salubrious.]

1. Wholesome; healthful; promoting health; as, salutary exercise.

2. Promotive of, or contributing to, some beneficial purpose;
beneficial; advantageous; as, a salutary design.

Syn.
 -- Wholesome; healthful; salubrious; beneficial; useful;
advantageous; profitable.
 -- Sal"u*ta*ri*ly, adv.
 -- Sal"u*ta*ri*ness, n.

SALUTATION
Sal`u*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. salutatio: cf. F. salutation. See
Salute.]

Defn: The act of saluting, or paying respect or reverence, by the
customary words or actions; the act of greeting, or expressing good
will or courtesy; also, that which is uttered or done in saluting or
greeting.
In all public meetings or private addresses, use those forms of
salutation, reverence, and decency usual amongst the most sober
persons. Jer. Taylor.

Syn.
 -- Greeting; salute; address.
 -- Salutation, Greeting, Salute, Greeting is the general word for
all manner of expressions of recognition, agreeable or otherwise,
made when persons meet or communicate with each other. A greeting may
be hearty and loving, chilling and offensive, or merely formal, as in
the opening sentence of legal documents. Salutation more definitely
implies a wishing well, and is used of expressions at parting as well
as at meeting. It is used especially of uttered expressions of good
will. Salute, while formerly and sometimes still in the sense of
either greeting or salutation, is now used specifically to denote a
conventional demonstration not expressed in words. The guests
received a greeting which relieved their embrassment, offered their
salutations in well-chosen terms, and when they retired, as when they
entered, made a deferential salute.
Woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in the
synagogues, and greetings in the markets. Luke xi. 43.
When Elisabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her
womb. Luke i. 41.
I shall not trouble my reader with the first salutes of our three
friends. Addison.

SALUTATORIAN
Sa*lu`ta*to"ri*an, n.

Defn: The student who pronounces the salutatory oration at the annual
Commencement or like exercises of a college, -- an honor commonly
assigned to that member of the graduating class who ranks second in
scholarship. [U.S.]

SALUTATORILY
Sa*lu"ta*to*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: By way of salutation.

SALUTATORY
Sa*lu"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. salutatorius. See Salute.]

Defn: Containing or expressing salutations; speaking a welcome;
greeting; -- applied especially to the oration which introduces the
exercises of the Commencements, or similar public exhibitions, in
American colleges.

SALUTATORY
Sa*lu"ta*to*ry, n.

1. A place for saluting or greeting; a vestibule; a porch. [Obs.]
Milton.

2. (American Colleges)

Defn: The salutatory oration.

SALUTE
Sa*lute", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saluted; p. pr. & vb. n. Saluting.]
Etym: [L. salutare, salutatum, from salus, -utis, health, safety. See
Salubrious.]

1. To adress, as with expressions of kind wishes and courtesy; to
greet; to hail.
I salute you with this kingly title. Shak.

2. Hence, to give a sign of good will; to compliment by an act or
ceremony, as a kiss, a bow, etc.
You have the prettiest tip of a finger . . . I must take the freedom
to salute it. Addison.

3. (Mil. & Naval)

Defn: To honor, as some day, person, or nation, by a discharge of
cannon or small arms, by dipping colors, by cheers, etc.

4. To promote the welfare and safety of; to benefit; to gratify.
[Obs.] "If this salute my blood a jot." Shak.

SALUTE
Sa*lute", n. Etym: [Cf. F. salut. See Salute, v.]

1. The act of saluting, or expressing kind wishes or respect;
salutation; greeting.

2. A sign, token, or ceremony, expressing good will, compliment, or
respect, as a kiss, a bow, etc. Tennyson.

3. (Mil. & Naval)

Defn: A token of respect or honor for some distinguished or official
personage, for a foreign vessel or flag, or for some festival or
event, as by presenting arms, by a discharge of cannon, volleys of
small arms, dipping the colors or the topsails, etc.

SALUTER
Sa*lut"er, n.

Defn: One who salutes.

SALUTIFEROUS
Sal`u*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. salutifer; salus, -utis, health +
ferre to bring.]

Defn: Bringing health; healthy; salutary; beneficial; as,
salutiferous air. [R.]
Innumerable powers, all of them salutiferous. Cudworth.

Syn.
 -- Healthful; healthy; salutary; salubrious.

SALUTIFEROUSLY
Sal`u*tif"er*ous*ly, adv.

Defn: Salutarily. [R.]

SALVABILITY
Sal`va*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being salvable; salvableness. [R.]
In the Latin scheme of redemption, salvability was not possible
outside the communion of the visible organization. A. V. G. Allen.

SALVABLE
Sal"va*ble, a. Etym: [L. salvare to save, from salvus safe. Cf.
Savable.]

Defn: Capable of being saved; admitting of salvation. Dr. H. More.
 -- Sal"va*ble*ness, n.
 -- Sal"va*bly, adv.

SALVAGE
Sal"vage (; 48), n. Etym: [F. salvage, OF. salver to save, F. sauver,
fr. L. salvare. See Save.]

1. The act of saving a vessel, goods, or life, goods, or life, from
perils of the sea.
Salvage of life from a british ship, or a foreign ship in British
waters, ranks before salvage of goods. Encyc. Brit.

2. (Maritime Law)
(a) The compensation allowed to persons who voluntarily assist in
saving a ship or her cargo from peril.
(b) That part of the property that survives the peril and is saved.
Kent. Abbot.

SALVAGE
Sal"vage, a. & n.

Defn: Savage. [Obs.] Spenser.

SALVATION
Sal*va"tion, n. Etym: [OE. salvacioun, sauvacion, F. salvation, fr.
L. salvatio, fr. salvare to save. See Save.]

1. The act of saving; preservation or deliverance from destruction,
danger, or great calamity.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The redemption of man from the bondage of sin and liability to
eternal death, and the conferring on him of everlasting happiness.
To earn salvation for the sons of men. Milton.
Godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation. 2. Cor. vii. 10.

3. Saving power; that which saves.
Fear ye not; stand still, and see the salvation of the Lord, which he
will show to you to-day. Ex. xiv. 13.
Salvation Army, an organization for prosecuting the work of Christian
evangelization, especially among the degraded populations of cities.
It is virtually a new sect founded in London in 1861 by William
Booth. The evangelists, male and female, have military titles
according to rank, that of the chief being "General." They wear a
uniform, and in their phraseology and mode of work adopt a quasi
military style.

SALVATIONIST
Sal*va"tion*ist, n.

Defn: An evangelist, a member, or a recruit, of the Salvation Army.

SALVATORY
Sal"va*to*ry, n. Etym: [LL. salvatorium, fr. salvare to save.]

Defn: A place where things are preserved; a repository. [R.] Sir M.
Hale.

SALVE
Sal"ve, interj. Etym: [L., hail, God save you, imperat. of salvere to
be well. Cf. Salvo a volley.]

Defn: Hail!

SALVE
Sal"ve ( or ), v. t.

Defn: To say "Salve" to; to greet; to salute. [Obs.]
By this that stranger knight in presence came, And goodly salved
them. Spenser.

SALVE
Salve, n. Etym: [AS. sealf ointment; akin to LG. salwe, D. zalve,
zalf, OHG. salba, Dan. salve, Sw. salva, Goth. salb to anoint, and
probably to Gr. (Hesychius) sapris clarified butter. sq. root155,
291.]

1. An adhesive composition or substance to be applied to wounds or
sores; a healing ointment. Chaucer.

2. A soothing remedy or antidote.
Counsel or consolation we may bring. Salve to thy sores. Milton.
Salve bug (Zool.), a large, stout isopod crustacean (?ga psora),
parasitic on the halibut and codfish, -- used by fishermen in the
preparation of a salve. It becomes about two inches in length.

SALVE
Salve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Salved; p. pr. & vb. n. Salving.] Etym:
[AS. sealfian to anoint. See Salve, n.]

1. To heal by applications or medicaments; to cure by remedial
traetment; to apply salve to; as, to salve a wound. Shak.

2. To heal; to remedy; to cure; to make good; to soothe, as with an
ointment, especially by some device, trick, or quibble; to gloss
over.
But Ebranck salved both their infamies With noble deeds. Spenser.
What may we do, then, to salve this seeming inconsistence Milton.

SALVE
Salve, v. t. & i. Etym: [See Salvage]

Defn: To save, as a ship or goods, from the perils of the sea.
[Recent]

SALVER
Salv"er, n.

Defn: One who salves, or uses salve as a remedy; hence, a
quacksalver, or quack. [Obs.]

SALVER
Sal"ver, n. Etym: [Cf. Salvage.]

Defn: A salvor. Skeat.

SALVER
Sal"ver, n. Etym: [Sp. salva pregustation, the tasting of viands
before they are served, salver, fr. salvar to save, to taste, to
prove the food or drink of nobles, from L. salvare to save. See
Save.]

Defn: A tray or waiter on which anything is presented.

SALVER-SHAPED
Sal"ver-shaped`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Tubular, with a speading border. See Hypocraterimorphous.

SALVIA
Sal"vi*a, n. Etym: [L., sage.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants including the sage. See Sage.

SALVIFIC
Sal*vif"ic, a. Etym: [L. salficus saving; salvus saved, safe + facere
to make.]

Defn: Tending to save or secure safety. [Obs.]

SALVO
Sal"vo, n.; pl. Salvos. Etym: [L. salvo jure, literally, the right
being reserved. See Safe.]

Defn: An exception; a reservation; an excuse.
They admit many salvos, cautions, and reservations. Eilon Basilike.

SALVO
Sal"vo, n. Etym: [F. salve a discharge of heavy cannon, a volley, L.
salve hail, imperat. of salvere to be well, akin to salvus well. See
Safe.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A concentrated fire from pieces of artillery, as in endeavoring
to make a break in a fortification; a volley.

2. A salute paid by a simultaneous, or nearly simultaneous, firing of
a number of cannon.

SALVOR
Sal"vor, n. Etym: [See Salvation, Save] (Law)

Defn: One who assists in saving a ship or goods at sea, without being
under special obligation to do so. Wheaton.

SAM
Sam, adv. Etym: [AS. same. See Same, a.]

Defn: Together. [Obs.] "All in that city sam." Spenser.

SAMARA
Sa*ma"ra ( or ), n. Etym: [L. samara, samera, the seed of the elm.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A dry, indehiscent, usually one-seeded, winged fruit, as that
of the ash, maple, and elm; a key or key fruit.

SAMARE
Sam"are, n.

Defn: See Simar.

SAMARITAN
Sa*mar"i*tan, a. Etym: [L. Samaritanus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Samaria, in Palestine.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Samaria; also, the language of
Samaria.

SAMARIUM
Sa*ma"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr. E. samarskite.] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element of doubtful identity.

Note: Samarium was discovered, by means of spectrum analysis, in
certain minerals (samarskite, cerite, etc.), in which it is
associated with other elements of the earthy group. It has been
confounded with the donbtful elements decipium, philippium, etc., and
is possibly a complex mixture of elements not as yet clearly
identified. Symbol Sm. Provisional atomic weight 150.2.

SAMAROID
Sam"a*roid, a. Etym: [Samara + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling a samara, or winged seed vessel.

SAMARRA
Sa*mar"ra, n.

Defn: See Simar.

SAMARSKITE
Sa*mar"skite, a. Etym: [After Samarski, a Russian.] (Min.)

Defn: A rare mineral having a velvet-black color and submetallic
luster. It is a niobate of uranium, iron, and the yttrium and cerium
metals.

SAMBO
Sam"bo, n. Etym: [Sp. zambo, sambo.]

Defn: A colloquial or humorous appelation for a negro; sometimes, the
offspring of a black person and a mulatto; a zambo.

SAMBOO
Sam"boo, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Sumbur.

SAMBUCUS
Sam*bu"cus, n. Etym: [L., an elder tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of shrubs and trees; the elder.

SAMBUKE
Sam"buke, n. Etym: [L. sambuca, Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: An ancient stringed instrument used by the Greeks, the
particular construction of which is unknown.

SAMBUR
Sam"bur, n. Etym: [Hind. sambar, sabar.] (Zool.)

Defn: An East Indian deer (Rusa Aristotelis) having a mane on its
neck. Its antlers have but three prongs. Called also gerow. The name
is applied to other species of the genus Rusa, as the Bornean sambur
(R. equina).

SAME
Same, a. Etym: [AS. same. adv.; akin to OS. sama, samo, adv., OHG.
sam, a., sama, adv., Icel. samr, a., Sw. samme, samma, Dan. samme,
Goth. sama, Russ. samui, Gr. sama, Gr. simul at the same time,
similis like, and E. some, a., -some. sq. root191. Cf. Anomalous,
Assemble, Homeopathy, Homily, Seem, v. i., Semi-, Similar, Some.]

1. Not different or other; not another or others; identical;
unchanged.
Thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end. Ps. cii. 27.

2. Of like kind, species, sort, dimensions, or the like; not
differing in character or in the quality or qualities compared;
corresponding; not discordant; similar; like.
The ethereal vigor is in all the same. Dryden.

3. Just mentioned, or just about to be mentioned.
What ye know, the same do I know. Job. xiii. 2.
Do but think how well the same he spends, Who spends his blood his
country to relieve. Daniel.

Note: Same is commonly preceded by the, this, or that and is often
used substantively as in the citations above. In a comparative use it
is followed by as or with.
Bees like the same odors as we do. Lubbock.
[He] held the same political opinions with his illustrious friend.
Macaulay.

SAMELINESS
Same"li*ness, n.

Defn: Sameness, 2. [R.] Bayne.

SAMENESS
Same"ness, n.

1. The state of being the same, identity; abscence of difference;
near resemblance; correspondence; similarity; as, a sameness of
person, of manner, of sound, of appearance, and the like. "A sameness
of the terms." Bp. Horsley.

2. Hence, want of variety; tedious monotony.

Syn.
 -- Identity; identicalness; oneness.

SAMETTE
Sa*mette", n.

Defn: See Samite. [Obs.]

SAMIAN
Sa"mi*an, a. Etym: [L. Samius.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the island of Samos.
Fill high the cup with Samian wine. Byreon.
Samian earth, a species of clay from Samoa, formerly used in medicine
as an astringent.

SAMIAN
Sa"mi*an, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Samos.

SAMIEL
Sa"mi*el, n. Etym: [Turk. sam-yeli; Ar. samm poison + Turk. yel wind.
Cf. Simoom.]

Defn: A hot and destructive wind that sometimes blows, in Turkey,
from the desert. It is identical with the simoom of Arabia and the
kamsin of Syria.

SAMIOT
Sa"mi*ot, a. & n. Etym: [Cf. F. samiote.]

Defn: Samian.

SAMISEN
Sam"i*sen, n. [Jap.] (Mus.)

Defn: A Japanese musical instrument with three strings, resembling a
guitar or banjo.

SAMITE
Sa"mite, a. Etym: [OF. samit, LL. samitum, examitum, from LGr. Six,
and cf. Dimity.]

Defn: A species of silk stuff, or taffeta, generally interwoven with
gold. Tennyson.
In silken samite she was light arrayed. Spenser.

SAMLET
Sam"let, n. Etym: [Cf. Salmonet.]

Defn: The parr.

SAMMIER
Sam"mi*er, n.

Defn: A machine for pressing the water from skins in tanning. Knight.

SAMOAN
Sa*mo"an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Samoan Islands (formerly called
Navigators' Islands) in the South Pacific Ocean, or their
inhabitants.
 -- n.

Defn: An inhabitant of the Samoan Islands.

SAMOVAR
Sa"mo*var, n. Etym: [Russ. samovar'.]

Defn: A metal urn used in Russia for making tea. It is filled with
water, which is heated by charcoal placed in a pipe, with chimney
attached, which passes through the urn.

SAMOYEDES
Sam`oy*edes", n. pl.; sing. Samoyede (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: An ignorant and degraded Turanian tribe which occupies a
portion of Northern Russia and a part of Siberia.Samoyeds.

SAMP
Samp, n. Etym: [From American Indian sapac, saupac, made soft, or
thinned.]

Defn: An article of food consisting of maize broken or bruised, which
is cooked by by boiling, and usually eaten with milk; coarse hominy.

SAMPAN
Sam"pan, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A Chinese boat from twelve to fifteen feet long, covered with a
house, and sometimes used as a permanent habitation on the inland
waters. [Written also sanpan.]

SAMPHIRE
Sam"phire ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F. l'herbe de Saint Pierre. See
Saint, and Petrel.] (Bot.)
(a) A fleshy, suffrutescent, umbelliferous European plant (Crithmum
maritimum). It grows among rocks and on cliffs along the seacoast,
and is used for pickles.
Hangs one that gathers samphire, dreadful trade! Scak.

(b) The species of glasswort (Salicornia herbacea); -- called in
England marsh samphire.
(c) A seashore shrub (Borrichia arborescens) of the West Indies.
Golden samphire. See under Golden.

SAMPLE
Sam"ple, n. Etym: [OE. sample, asaumple, OF. essample, example, fr.
L. exemplum. See Example, and cf. Ensample, Sampler.]

1. Example; pattern. [Obs.] Spenser. "A sample to the youngest."
Shak.
Thus he concludes, and every hardy knight His sample followed.
Fairfax.

2. A part of anything presented for inspection, or shown as evidence
of the quality of the whole; a specimen; as, goods are often
purchased by samples.
I design this but for a sample of what I hope more fully to discuss.
Woodward.

Syn.
 -- Specimen; example. See Specimen.

SAMPLE
Sam"ple, v. t.

1. To make or show something similar to; to match. Bp. Hall.

2. To take or to test a sample or samples of; as, to sample sugar,
teas, wools, cloth.

SAMPLER
Sam"pler, n. Etym: [See Exampler, Exemplar.]

1. One who makes up samples for inspection; one who examines samples,
or by samples; as, a wool sampler.

2. A pattern; a specimen; especially, a collection of needlework
patterns, as letters, borders, etc., to be used as samples, or to
display the skill of the worker.
Susie dear, bring your sampler and Mrs. Schumann will show you how to
make that W you bothered over. E. E. Hale.

SAMSHOO; SAMSHU
Sam"shoo, Sam"shu (, n. Etym: [Chinese san-shao thrice fired.]

Defn: A spirituous liquor distilled by the Chinese from the yeasty
liquor in which boiled rice has fermented under pressure. S. W.
Williams.

SAMSON
Sam"son, n.

Defn: An Israelite of Bible record (see Judges xiii.), distinguished
for his great strength; hence, a man of extraordinary physical
strength. Samson post. (a) (Naut.) A strong post resting on the
keelson, and supporting a beam of the keelson, and supporting a beam
of the deck; also, a temporary or movable pilar carrying a leading
block or pulley for various purposes. Brande & C. (b) In deepwell
boring, the post which supports the walking beam of the apparatus.

SAMURAI
Sa"mu*rai`, n. pl. & sing. [Jap.]

Defn: In the former feudal system of Japan, the class or a member of
the class, of military retainers of the daimios, constituting the
gentry or lesser nobility. They possessed power of life and death
over the commoners, and wore two swords as their distinguishing mark.
Their special rights and privileges were abolished with the fall of
feudalism in 1871.

SANABILITY
San`a*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sanable; sanableness;
curableness.

SANABLE
San"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. sanabilis, fr. sanare to heal, fr. sanus
sound, healthy. See Sane.]

Defn: Capable of being healed or cured; susceptible of remedy.

Syn.
 -- Remediable; curable; healable.

SANABLENESS
San"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sanable.

SANATION
Sa*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. sanatio. See Sanable.]

Defn: The act of healing or curing. [Obs.] Wiseman.

SANATIVE
San"a*tive, a. Etym: [LL. sanativus.]

Defn: Having the power to cure or heal; healing; tending to heal;
sanatory.
 -- San"a*tive*ness, n.

SANATORIUM
San`a*to"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Sanatory.]

Defn: An establishment for the treatment of the sick; a resort for
invalids. See Sanitarium.

SANATORY
San"a*to*ry, a. Etym: [LL. sanatorius, fr. L. sa to heal. See
Sanable.]

Defn: Conducive to health; tending to cure; healing; curative;
sanative.
Sanatory ordinances for the protection of public health, such as
quarantine, fever hospitals, draining, etc. De Quincey.

Note: Sanatory and sanitary should not be confounded. Sanatory
signifies conducive to health, while sanitary has the more general
meaning of pertaining to health.

SANBENITO
San`be*ni"to, n. Etym: [Sp. & Pg. sambenito, contr. from L. saccus
sack + benedictus blessed.]

1. Anciently, a sackcloth coat worn by penitens on being reconciled
to the church.

2. A garnment or cap, or sometimes both, painted with flames,
figures, etc., and worn by persons who had been examined by the
Inquisition and were brought forth for punishment at the auto-da-fe.

SANCE-BELL; SANCTE BELL
Sance"-bell", Sanc"te bell", n.

Defn: See Sanctus bell, under Sanctus.

SANCHO
San"cho, n. [Sp., a proper name.] (Card Playing)

Defn: The nine of trumps in sancho pedro.

SANCHO PEDRO
Sancho pedro. [Sp. Pedro Peter.] (Card Playing)

Defn: A variety of auction pitch in which the nine (sancho) and five
(pedro) of trumps are added as counting cards at their pip value, and
the ten of trumps counts game.

SANCTIFICATE
Sanc"ti*fi*cate, v. t. Etym: [L. sanctificatus, p.p. of
sanctificare.]

Defn: To sanctify. [Obs.] Barrow.

SANCTIFICATION
Sanc`ti*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. sanctificatio: cf. F.
sanctification.]

1. The act of sanctifying or making holy; the being sanctified or
made holy; esp. (Theol.), the act of God's grace by which the
affections of men are purified, or alienated from sin and the world,
and exalted to, a supreme love to God; also, the state of being thus
purified or sanctified.
God hath from the baginning chosen you to salvation through
sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth. 2 Thess. ii.
13.

2. The act of consecrating, or of setting apart, for a sacred
purpose; consecration. Bp. Burnet.

SANCTIFIED
Sanc"ti*fied, a.

Defn: Made holy; also, made to have the air of sanctity;
sanctimonious.

SANCTIFIER
Sanc"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who sanctifies, or makes holy; specifically, the Holy
Spirit.

SANCTIFY
Sanc"ti*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sanctified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sanctifying.] Etym: [F. sanctifier, L. sanctificare; sanctus holy + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See Saint, and -fy.]

1. To make sacred or holy; to set apart to a holy or religious use;
to consecrate by appropriate rites; to hallow.
God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it. Gen. ii. 3.
Moses . . . sanctified Aaron and his garnment. Lev. viii. 30.

2. To make free from sin; to cleanse from moral corruption and
pollution; to purify.
Sanctify them through thy truth. John xvii. 17.

3. To make efficient as the means of holiness; to render productive
of holiness or piety.
A means which his mercy hath sanctified so to me as to make me repent
of that unjust act. Eikon Basilike.

4. To impart or impute sacredness, venerableness, inviolability,
title to reverence and respect, or the like, to; to secure from
violation; to give sanction to.
The holy man, amazed at what he saw, Made haste to sanctify the bliss
by law. Dryden.
Truth guards the poet, sanctifies the line. Pope.

SANCTIFYINGLY
Sanc"ti*fy`ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a manner or degree tending to sanctify or make holy.

SANCTILOQUENT
Sanc*til"o*quent, a. Etym: [L. sanctus holy + loquens, p. pr. of
loqui to speak.]

Defn: Discoursing on heavenly or holy things, or in a holy manner.

SANCTIMONIAL
Sanc`ti*mo"ni*al, a. Etym: [Cf. LL. sanctimonialis. ]

Defn: Sanctimonius. [Obs.]

SANCTIMONIOUS
Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous, a. Etym: [See Sanctimony.]

1. Possessing sanctimony; holy; sacred; saintly. Shak.

2. Making a show of sanctity; affecting saintliness; hypocritically
devout or pious. "Like the sanctimonious pirate." Shak.
 -- Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Sanc`ti*mo"ni*ous*ness, n.

SANCTIMONY
Sanc"ti*mo*ny, n. Etym: [L. sanctimonia, fr. sanctus holy: cf. OF.
sanctimonie. See Saint.]

Defn: Holiness; devoutness; scrupulous austerity; sanctity;
especially, outward or artificial saintliness; assumed or pretended
holiness; hypocritical devoutness.
Her pretense is a pilgrimage; . . . which holy undertaking with most
austere sanctimony she accomplished. Shak.

SANCTION
Sanc"tion, n. Etym: [L. sanctio, from sancire, samctum to render
sacred or inviolable, to fix unalternably: cf. F. sanction. See
Saint.]

1. Solemn or ceremonious ratification; an official act of a superior
by which he ratifies and gives validity to the act of some other
person or body; establishment or furtherance of anything by authority
to it; confirmation; approbation.
The strictest professors of reason have added the sanction of their
testimony. I. Watts.

2. Anything done or said to enforce the will, law, or authority of
another; as, legal sanctions.

Syn.
 -- Ratification; authorization; authoruty; countenance; support.

SANCTION
Sanc"tion, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sanctioned; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sanctioning.]

Defn: To give sanction to; to ratify; to confirm; to approve.
Would have counseled, or even sanctioned, such perilous experiments.
De Quincey.

Syn.
 -- To ratify; confirm; authorize; countenance.

SANCTIONARY
Sanc"tion*a*ry, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or giving, sanction.

SANCTITUDE
Sanc"ti*tude, a. Etym: [L. sanctitudo.]

Defn: Holiness; sacredness; sanctity. [R.] milton.

SANCTITY
Sanc"ti*ty, n.; pl. Sanctities. Etym: [L. sanctitas, from sanctus
holy. See Saint.]

1. The state or quality of being sacred or holy; holiness;
saintliness; moral purity; godliness.
To sanctity she made no pretense, and, indeed, narrowly escaped the
imputation of irreligion. Macaulay.

2. Sacredness; solemnity; inviolability; religious binding force; as,
the sanctity of an oath.

3. A saint or holy being. [R.]
About him all the sanctities of heaven. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Holiness; godliness; piety; devotion; goodness; purity;
religiousness;sacredness; solemnity. See the Note under Religion.

SANCTUARIZE
Sanc"tu*a*rize, v. t.

Defn: To shelter by means of a sanctuary or sacred privileges. [Obs.]
Shak.

SANCTUARY
Sanc"tu*a*ry, n.; pl. Sanctuaries. Etym: [OE. seintuare, OF.
saintuaire, F. sanctuaire, fr. L. sanctuarium, from sanctus sacred,
holy. See Saint.]

Defn: A sacred place; a consecrated spot; a holy and inviolable site.
Hence, specifically:
(a) The most retired part of the temple at Jerusalem, called the Holy
of Holies, in which was kept the ark of the covenant, and into which
no person was permitted to enter except the high priest, and he only
once a year, to intercede for the people; also, the most sacred part
of the tabernacle; also, the temple at Jerusalem.
(b) (Arch.) The most sacred part of any religious building, esp. that
part of a Christian church in which the altar is placed.
(c) A house consecrated to the worship of God; a place where divine
service is performed; a church, temple, or other place of worship.
(d) A sacred and inviolable asylum; a place of refuge and protection;
shelter; refuge; protection.
These laws, whoever made them, bestowed on temples the privelege of
sanctuary. Milton
.
These admirable works of painting were made fuel for the fire; but
some relics of it took sanctuary under ground, and escaped the common
destiny. Dryden.
Wildlife sanctuary, a tract of land set aside by law for the
preservation of wildlife, in which no hunting is permitted.

SANCTUM
Sanc"tum, n. Etym: [L., p.p. of sanctire to consecrate.]

Defn: A sacred place; hence, a place of retreat; a room reserved for
personal use; as, an editor's sanctum. Sanctum sanctorum Etym: [L.] ,
the Holy of Holies; the most holy place, as in the Jewish temple.

SANCTUS
Sanc"tus, n. Etym: [L. sanctus, p.p. of sancire.]

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A part of the Mass, or, in Protestant churches, a part of the
communion service, of which the first words in Latin are Sanctus,
sanctus, sanctus [Holy, holy, holy]; -- called also Tersanctus.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: An anthem composed for these words. Sanctus bell, a small bell
usually suspended in a bell cot at the apex of the nave roof, over
the chancel arch, in medi?val churches, but a hand bell is now often
used; -- so called because rung at the singing of the sanctus, at the
conclusion of the ordinary of the Mass, and again at the elevation of
the host. Called also Mass bell, sacring bell, saints' bell, sance-
bell, sancte bell.

SAND
Sand, n. Etym: [AS. sand; akin to D. zand, G. sand, OHG. sant, Icel.
sandr, Dan. & Sw. sand, Gr.

1. Fine particles of stone, esp. of siliceous stone, but not reduced
to dust; comminuted stone in the form of loose grains, which are not
coherent when wet.
That finer matter, called sand, is no other than very small pebbles.
Woodsward.

2. A single particle of such stone. [R.] Shak.

3. The sand in the hourglass; hence, a moment or interval of time;
the term or extent of one's life.
The sands are numbered that make up my life. Shak.

4. pl.

Defn: Tracts of land consisting of sand, like the deserts of Arabia
and Africa; also, extensive tracts of sand exposed by the ebb of the
tide. "The Libyan sands." Milton. "The sands o'Dee." C. Kingsley.

5. Courage; pluck; grit. [Slang] Sand badger (Zool.), the Japanese
badger (Meles ankuma).
 -- Sand bag (a) A bag filled with sand or earth, used for various
purposes, as in fortification, for ballast, etc. (b) A long bag
filled with sand, used as a club by assassins.
 -- Sand ball, soap mixed with sand, made into a ball for use at the
toilet.
 -- Sand bath. (a) (Chem.) A vessel of hot sand in a laboratory, in
which vessels that are to be heated are partially immersed. (b) A
bath in which the body is immersed in hot sand.
 -- Sand bed, a thick layer of sand, whether deposited naturally or
artificially; specifically, a thick layer of sand into which molten
metal is run in casting, or from a reducing furnace.
 -- Sand birds (Zool.), a collective name for numerous species of
limicoline birds, such as the sandpipers, plovers, tattlers, and many
others; -- called also shore birds.
 -- Sand blast, a process of engraving and cutting glass and other
hard substances by driving sand against them by a steam jet or
otherwise; also, the apparatus used in the process.
 -- Sand box. (a) A box with a perforated top or cover, for
sprinkling paper with sand. (b) A box carried on locomotives, from
which sand runs on the rails in front of the driving wheel, to
prevent slipping.
 -- Sand-box tree (Bot.), a tropical American tree (Hura crepitans).
Its fruit is a depressed many-celled woody capsule which, when
completely dry, bursts with a loud report and scatters the seeds. See
Illust. of Regma.
 -- Sand bug (Zool.), an American anomuran crustacean (Hippa
talpoidea) which burrows in sandy seabeaches. It is often used as
bait by fishermen. See Illust. under Anomura.
 -- Sand canal (Zool.), a tubular vessel having a calcareous coating,
and connecting the oral ambulacral ring with the madreporic tubercle.
It appears to be excretory in function.
 -- Sand cock (Zool.), the redshank. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sand collar.
(Zool.) Same as Sand saucer, below.
 -- Sand crab. (Zool.) (a) The lady crab. (b) A land crab, or
ocypodian.
 -- Sand crack (Far.), a crack extending downward from the coronet,
in the wall of a horse's hoof, which often causes lameness.
 -- Sand cricket (Zool.), any one of several species of large
terrestrial crickets of the genus Stenophelmatus and allied genera,
native of the sandy plains of the Western United States.
 -- Sand cusk (Zool.), any ophidiod fish. See Illust. under Ophidiod.
 -- Sand dab (Zool.), a small American flounder (Limanda ferruginea);
-- called also rusty dab. The name is also applied locally to other
allied species.
 -- Sand darter (Zool.), a small etheostomoid fish of the Ohio valley
(Ammocrypta pellucida).
 -- Sand dollar (Zool.), any one of several species of small flat
circular sea urchins, which live on sandy bottoms, especially
Echinarachnius parma of the American coast.
 -- Sand drift, drifting sand; also, a mound or bank of drifted sand.
 -- Sand eel. (Zool.) (a) A lant, or launce. (b) A slender Pacific
Ocean fish of the genus Gonorhynchus, having barbels about the mouth.
 -- Sand flag, sandstone which splits up into flagstones.
 -- Sand flea. (Zool.) (a) Any species of flea which inhabits, or
breeds in, sandy places, especially the common dog flea. (b) the
chigoe. (c) Any leaping amphipod crustacean; a beach flea, or
orchestian. See Beach flea, under Beach.
 -- Sand flood, a vast body of sand borne along by the wind. James
Bruce.
 -- Sand fluke. (Zool.) (a) The sandnecker. (b) The European smooth
dab (Pleuronectes microcephalus); -- called also kitt, marysole,
smear dab, town dab.
 -- Sand fly (Zool.), any one of several species of small dipterous
flies of the genus Simulium, abounding on sandy shores, especially
Simulium nocivum of the United States. They are very troublesome on
account of their biting habits. Called also no-see-um, punky, and
midge.
 -- Sand gall (Geol.) See Sand pipe, below.
 -- Sand grass (Bot.), any species of grass which grows in sand;
especially, a tufted grass (Triplasis purpurea) with numerous bearded
joints, and acid awl-shaped leaves, growing on the Atlantic coast.

-- Sand grouse (Zool.), any one of many species of Old World birds
belonging to the suborder Pterocletes, and resembling both grouse and
pigeons. Called also rock grouse, rock pigeon, and ganga. They mostly
belong to the genus Pterocles, as the common Indian species (P.
exustus). The large sand grouse (P. arenarius), the painted sand
grouse (P. fasciatus), and the pintail sand grouse (P. alchata) are
also found in India. See Illust. under Pterocletes.
 -- Sand hill, a hill of sand; a dune.
 -- Sand-hill crane (Zool.), the American brown crane (Grus
Mexicana).
 -- Sand hopper (Zool.), a beach flea; an orchestian.
 -- Sand hornet (Zool.), a sand wasp.
 -- Sand lark. (Zool.) (a) A small lark (Alaudala raytal), native of
India. (b) A small sandpiper, or plover, as the ringneck, the
sanderling, and the common European sandpiper. (c) The Australian
red-capped dotterel (?gialophilus ruficapillus); -- called also red-
necked plover.
 -- Sand launce (Zool.), a lant, or launce.
 -- Sand lizard (Zool.), a common European lizard (Lacerta agilis).
 -- Sand martin (Zool.), the bank swallow.
 -- Sand mole (Zool.), the coast rat.
 -- Sand monitor (Zool.), a large Egyptian lizard (Monitor arenarius)
which inhabits dry localities.
 -- Sand mouse (Zool.), the dunlin. [Prov. Eng.] -- Sand myrtle.
(Bot.) See under Myrtle.
 -- Sand partridge (Zool.), either of two small Asiatic partridges of
the genus Ammoperdix. The wings are long and the tarsus is spurless.
One species (A. Heeji) inhabits Palestine and Arabia. The other
species (A. Bonhami), inhabiting Central Asia, is called also seesee
partridge, and teehoo.
 -- Sand picture, a picture made by putting sand of different colors
on an adhesive surface.
 -- Sand pike. (Zool.) (a) The sauger. (b) The lizard fish.
 -- Sand pillar, a sand storm which takes the form of a whirling
pillar in its progress in desert tracts like those of the Sahara and
Mongolia.
 -- Sand pipe (Geol.), a tubular cavity, from a few inches to several
feet in dept, occurring especially in calcareous rocks, and often
filled with gravel, sand, etc.; -- called also sand gall.
 -- Sand pride (Zool.), a small british lamprey now considered to be
the young of larger species; -- called also sand prey.
 -- Sand pump, in artesian well boring, a long, slender bucket with a
valve at the bottom for raising sand from the well.
 -- Sand rat (Zool.), the pocket gopher.
 -- Sand rock, a rock made of cemented sand.
 -- Sand runner (Zool.), the turnstone.
 -- Sand saucer (Zool.), the mass of egg capsules, or oothec?, of any
mollusk of the genus Natica and allied genera. It has the shape of a
bottomless saucer, and is coated with fine sand; -- called also sand
collar.
 -- Sand screw (Zool.), an amphipod crustacean (Lepidactylis
arenarius), which burrows in the sandy seabeaches of Europe and
America.
 -- Sand shark (Zool.), an American shark (Odontaspis littoralis)
found on the sandy coasts of the Eastern United States; -- called
also gray shark, and dogfish shark. See Illust. under Remora.
 -- Sand skink (Zool.), any one of several species of Old World
lizards belonging to the genus Seps; as, the ocellated sand skink
(Seps ocellatus) of Southern Europe.
 -- Sand skipper (Zool.), a beach flea, or orchestian.
 -- Sand smelt (Zool.), a silverside.
 -- Sand snake. (Zool.) (a) Any one of several species of harmless
burrowing snakes of the genus Eryx, native of Southern Europe,
Africa, and Asia, especially E. Jaculus of India and E. Johnii, used
by snake charmers. (b) Any innocuous South African snake of the genus
Psammophis, especially P. sibilans.
 -- Sand snipe (Zool.), the sandpiper.
 -- Sand star (Zool.), an ophiurioid starfish living on sandy sea
bottoms; a brittle star.
 -- Sand storm, a cloud of sand driven violently by the wind.
 -- Sand sucker, the sandnecker.
 -- Sand swallow (Zool.), the bank swallow. See under Bank.
 -- Sand tube, a tube made of sand. Especially:
(a) A tube of vitrified sand, produced by a stroke of lightning; a
fulgurite.
(b) (Zool.) Any tube made of cemented sand.
(c) (Zool. ) In starfishes, a tube having calcareous particles in its
wall, which connects the oral water tube with the madreporic plate.
 -- Sand viper. (Zool.) See Hognose snake.
 -- Sand wasp (Zool.), any one of numerous species of hymenopterous
insects belonging to the families Pompilid? and Spherid?, which dig
burrows in sand. The female provisions the nest with insects or
spiders which she paralyzes by stinging, and which serve as food for
her young.

SAND
Sand, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sanded; p. pr. & vb. n. Sanding.]

1. To sprinkle or cover with sand.

2. To drive upon the sand. [Obs.] Burton.

3. To bury (oysters) beneath drifting sand or mud.

4. To mix with sand for purposes of fraud; as, to sand sugar.
[Colloq.]

SANDAL
San"dal, n.

Defn: Same as Sendal.
Sails of silk and ropes of sandal. Longfellow.

SANDAL
San"dal, n.

Defn: Sandalwood. "Fans of sandal." Tennyson.

SANDAL
San"dal, n. Etym: [F. sandale, L. sandalium, Gr. sandal.]
(a) A kind of shoe consisting of a sole strapped to the foot; a
protection for the foot, covering its lower surface, but not its
upper.
(b) A kind of slipper.
(c) An overshoe with parallel openings across the instep.

SANDALED
San"daled, a.

1. Wearing sandals.
The measured footfalls of his sandaled feet. Longfellow.

2. Made like a sandal.

SANDALIFORM
San*dal"i*form, a. Etym: [Sandal + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Shaped like a sandal or slipper.

SANDALWOOD
San"dal*wood, n. Etym: [F. sandal, santal, fr. Ar. candal, or Gr.
sa`ntalon; both ultimately fr. Skr. candana. Cf. Sanders.] (Bot.)
(a) The highly perfumed yellowish heartwood of an East Indian and
Polynesian tree (Santalum album), and of several other trees of the
same genus, as the Hawaiian Santalum Freycinetianum and S.
pyrularium, the Australian S. latifolium, etc. The name is extended
to several other kinds of fragrant wood.
(b) Any tree of the genus Santalum, or a tree which yields
sandalwood.
(c) The red wood of a kind of buckthorn, used in Russia for dyeing
leather (Rhamnus Dahuricus). False sandalwood, the fragrant wood of
several trees not of the genus Santalum, as Ximenia Americana,
Myoporum tenuifolium of Tahiti.
 -- Red sandalwood, a heavy, dark red dyewood, being the heartwood of
two leguminous trees of India (Pterocarpus santalinus, and
Adenanthera pavonina); -- called also red sanderswood, sanders or
saunders, and rubywood.

SANDARACH; SANDARAC
San"da*rach, San"da*rac, (, n. Etym: [L. sandaraca, Gr.

1. (Min.)

Defn: Realgar; red sulphide of arsenic. [Archaic]

2. (Bot. Chem.)

Defn: A white or yellow resin obtained from a Barbary tree (Callitris
quadrivalvis or Thuya articulata), and pulverized for pounce; --
probably so called from a resemblance to the mineral.

SANDBAGGER
Sand"bag`ger, n.

Defn: An assaulter whose weapon is a sand bag. See Sand bag, under
Sand.

SAND-BLIND
Sand"-blind", a. Etym: [For sam blind half blind; AS. sam- half (akin
to semi-) + blind.]

Defn: Having defective sight; dim-sighted; purblind. Shak.

SANDED
Sand"ed, a.

1. Covered or sprinkled with sand; sandy; barren. Thomson.

2. Marked with small spots; variegated with spots; speckled; of a
sandy color, as a hound. Shak.

3. Short-sighted. [Prov. Eng.]

SANDEMANIAN
San`de*ma"ni*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Robert Sandeman, a Scotch sectary of the
eighteenth century. See Glassite.

SANDEMANIANISM
San`de*ma"ni*an*ism, n.

Defn: The faith or system of the Sandemanians. A. Fuller.

SANDERLING
San"der*ling, n. Etym: [Sand + 0ling. So called because it obtains
its food by searching the moist sands of the seashore.] (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A small gray and brown sandpiper (Calidris arenaria) very
common on sandy beaches in America, Europe, and Asia. Called also
curwillet, sand lark, stint, and ruddy plover.

SANDERS
San"ders, n. Etym: [See Sandal.]

Defn: An old name of sandalwood, now applied only to the red
sandalwood. See under Sandalwood.

SANDERS-BLUE
San"ders-blue", n.

Defn: See Saundersblue.

SANDEVER
San"de*ver, n.

Defn: See Sandiver. [Obs.]

SANDFISH
Sand"fish`, n. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A small marine fish of the Pacific coast of North America
(Trichodon trichodon) which buries itself in the sand.

SANDGLASS
Sand"glass`, n.

Defn: An instrument for measuring time by the running of sand. See
Hourglass.

SANDHILLER
Sand"hill`er, n.

Defn: A nickname given to any "poor white" living in the pine woods
which cover the sandy hills in Georgia and South Carolina. [U.S.]

SANDINESS
Sand"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sandy, or of being of a sandy
color.

SANDISH
Sand"ish, a.

Defn: Approaching the nature of sand; loose; not compact. [Obs.]
Evelyn.

SANDIVER
San"di*ver, n. Etym: [Perh. fr. OF. sa\'8bn grease, fat + de of +
verre glass (cf. Saim), or fr. F. sel de verre sandiver.]

Defn: A whitish substance which is cast up, as a scum, from the
materials of glass in fusion, and, floating on the top, is skimmed
off; -- called also glass gall. [Formerly written also sandever.]

SANDIX
San"dix, n. Etym: [L. sandix, sandyx, vermilion, or a color like
vermilion, Gr.

Defn: A kind of minium, or red lead, made by calcining carbonate of
lead, but inferior to true minium. [Written also sandyx.] [Obs.]

SAND-LOT
Sand"-lot`, a.

Defn: Lit., of or pert. to a lot or piece of sandy ground, -- hence,
pert. to, or characteristic of, the policy or practices of the
socialistic or communistic followers of the Irish agitator Denis
Kearney, who delivered many of his speeches in the open sand lots
about San Francisco; as, the sand-lot constitution of California,
framed in 1879, under the influence of sand-lot agitation.

SANDMAN
Sand"man`, n.

Defn: A mythical person who makes children sleepy, so that they rub
their eyes as if there were sand in them.

SANDNECKER
Sand"neck`er, n. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A European flounder (Hippoglossoides limandoides); -- called
also rough dab, long fluke, sand fluke, and sand sucker.

SANDPAPER
Sand"pa`per, n.

Defn: Paper covered on one side with sand glued fast, -- used for
smoothing and polishing.

SANDPAPER
Sand"pa`per, v. t.

Defn: To smooth or polish with sandpaper; as, to sandpaper a door.

SANDPIPER
Sand"pi`per, n.

1. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small limicoline game birds
belonging to Tringa, Actodromas, Ereunetes, and various allied genera
of the family Tringid\'91.

Note: The most important North American species are the pestoral
sandpiper (Tringa maculata), called also browback, grass snipe, and
jacksnipe; the red-backed, or black-breasted, sandpiper, or dunlin
(T. alpina); the purple sandpiper (T.maritima: the red-breasted
sandpiper, or knot (T. canutus); the semipalmated sandpiper
(Ereunetes pusillus); the spotted sandpiper, or teeter-tail (Actitis
macularia); the buff-breasted sandpiper (Tryngites subruficollis),
and the Bartramian sandpiper, or upland plover. See under Upland.
Among the European species are the dunlin, the knot, the ruff, the
sanderling, and the common sandpiper (Actitis, or tringoides,
hypoleucus), called also fiddler, peeper, pleeps, weet-weet, and
summer snipe. Some of the small plovers and tattlers are also called
sandpipers.

2. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A small lamprey eel; the pride. Curlew sandpiper. See under
Curlew.
 -- Stilt sandpiper. See under Stilt.

SANDPIT
Sand"pit`, n.

Defn: A pit or excavation from which sand is or has been taken.

SANDRE
San"dre, n. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: A Russian fish (Lucioperca sandre) which yields a valuable oil,
called sandre oil, used in the preparation of caviare.

SANDSTONE
Sand"stone`, n.

Defn: A rock made of sand more or less firmly united. Common or
siliceous sandstone consists mainly of quartz sand.

Note: Different names are aplied to the various kinds of sandstone
according to their composition; as, granitic, argillaceous,
micaceous, etc. Flexible sandstone (Min.), the finer-grained variety
of itacolumite, which on account of the scales of mica in the
lamination is quite flexible.
 -- Red sandstone, a name given to two extensive series of British
rocks in which red sandstones predominate, one below, and the other
above, the coal measures. These were formerly known as the Old and
the New Red Sandstone respectively, and the former name is still
retained for the group preceding the Coal and referred to the
Devonian age, but the term New Red Sandstone is now little used, some
of the strata being regarded as Permian and the remained as Triassic.
See the Chart of Geology.

SANDWICH
Sand"wich, n. Etym: [Named from the Earl of Sandwich.]

Defn: Two pieces of bread and butter with a thin slice of meat,
cheese, or the like, between them.

SANDWICH
Sand"wich, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sandwiched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sandwiching.]

Defn: To make into a sandwich; also, figuratively, to insert between
portions of something dissimilar; to form of alternate parts or
things, or alternating layers of a different nature; to interlard.

SANDWORM
Sand"worm`, n. (Zo\'94l.)
(a) Any one of numerous species of annelids which burrow in the sand
of the seashore.
(b) Any species of annelids of the genus Sabellaria. They construct
firm tubes of agglutinated sand on rocks and shells, and are
sometimes destructive to oysters.
(c) The chigoe, a species of flea.

SANDWORT
Sand"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Arenaria, low, tufted herbs (order
Caryophyllace\'91.)

SANDY
Sand"y, a. [Compar. Sandier; superl. Sandiest.] Etym: [AS. sandig.]

1. Consisting of, abounding with, or resembling, sand; full of sand;
covered or sprinkled with sand; as, a sandy desert, road, or soil.

2. Of the color of sand; of a light yellowish red color; as, sandy
hair.

SANDYX
San"dyx, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: See Sandix.

SANE
Sane, a. Etym: [L. sanus; cf. Gr. Sound, a.]

1. Being in a healthy condition; not deranged; acting rationally; --
said of the mind.

2. Mentally sound; possessing a rational mind; having the mental
faculties in such condition as to be able to anticipate and judge of
the effect of one's actions in an ordinary maner; -- said of persons.

Syn.
 -- Sound; healthy; underanged; unbroken.

SANENESS
Sane"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being sane; sanity.

SANG
Sang,

Defn: imp. of Sing.

SANGA; SANGU
San"ga, San"gu, n. (Zo\'94l.)

Defn: The Abyssinian ox (Bos or Bibos, Africanus), noted for the
great length of its horns. It has a hump on its back.

SANGAREE
San`ga*ree", n. Etym: [Sp. sangria, lit., bleeding, from sangre,
blood, L. sanguis.]

Defn: Wine and water sweetened and spiced, -- a favorite West Indian
drink.

SANG-FROID
Sang`-froid", n. Etym: [F., cold blood.]

Defn: Freedom from agitation or excitement of mind; coolness in
trying circumstances; indifference; calmness. Burke.

SANGIAC
San"gi*ac, n.

Defn: See Sanjak.

SANGRAAL; SANGREAL
San`graal", San"gre*al, n. Etym: [See Saint, and Grail.]

Defn: See Holy Grail, under Grail.

SANGUIFEROUS
San*guif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis blood + -ferous.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Conveying blood; as, sanguiferous vessels, i. e., the arteries,
veins, capillaries.

SANGUIFICATION
San`gui*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sanguification. See Sanguify.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: The production of blood; the conversion of the products of
digestion into blood; hematosis.

SANGUIFIER
San"gui*fi`er, n.

Defn: A producer of blood.

SANGUIFLUOUS
San*guif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis blood + fluere to flow.]

Defn: Flowing or running with blood.

SANGUIFY
San"gui*fy, v. t. Etym: [L. sanguis blood + -fy: cf. F. sanguifier.]

Defn: To produce blood from.

SANGUIGENOUS
San*guig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis + -genous.]

Defn: Producing blood; as, sanguigenous food.

SANGUINACEOUS
San`gui*na"ceous, n.

Defn: Of a blood-red color; sanguine.

SANGUINARIA
San`gui*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Sanguinary, a. & n.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants of the Poppy family.

Note: Sanguinaria Canadensis, or bloodroot, is the only species. It
has a perennial rootstock, which sends up a few roundish lobed leaves
and solitary white blossoms in early spring. See Bloodroot.

2. The rootstock of the bloodroot, used in medicine as an emetic,
etc.

SANGUINARILY
San"gui*na*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sanguinary manner.

SANGUINARINESS
San"gui*na*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sanguinary.

SANGUINARY
San"gui*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. sanguinarius, fr. sanguis blood: cf.
F.sanguinaire.]

1. Attended with much bloodshed; bloody; murderous; as, a sanguinary
war, contest, or battle.
We may not propagate religion by wars, or by sanguinary persecutions
to force consciences. Bacon.

2. Bloodthirsty; cruel; eager to shed blood.
Passion . . . makes us brutal and sanguinary. Broome.

SANGUINARY
San"gui*na*ry, n. Etym: [L. herba sanguinaria an herb that stanches
blood: cf. F. sanguinaire. See Sanguinary, a.] (Bot.)
(a) The yarrow.
(b) The Sanguinaria.

SANGUINE
San"guine, a. Etym: [F. sanguin, L. sanguineus, fr. sanguis blood.
Cf. Sanguineous.]

1. Having the color of blood; red.
Of his complexion he was sanguine. Chaucer.
Like to that sanguine flower inscribed with woe. Milton.

2. Characterized by abundance and active circulation of blood; as, a
sanguine bodily temperament.

3. Warm; ardent; as, a sanguine temper.

4. Anticipating the best; not desponding; confident; full of hope;
as, sanguine of success.

Syn.
 -- Warm; ardent; lively; confident; hopeful.

SANGUINE
San"guine, n.

1. Blood color; red. Spenser.

2. Anything of a blood-red, as cloth. [Obs.]
In sanguine and in pes he clad was all. Chaucer.

3. (Min.)

Defn: Bloodstone.

4. Red crayon. See the Note under Crayon, 1.

SANGUINE
San"guine, v. t.

Defn: To stain with blood; to impart the color of blood to; to
ensanguine.

SANGUINE
San"guine, adv.

Defn: In a sanguine manner.
I can not speculate quite so sanguinely as he does. Burke.

SANGUINELESS
San"guine*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of blood; pale. [R.]

SANGUINELY
San"guine*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sanguine manner.

I can not speculate quite so sanguinely as he does.
Burke.

SANGUINENESS
San"guine*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sanguine.

SANGUINEOUS
San*guin"e*ous, a. Etym: [L. sanguineus. See Sanguine.]

1. Abounding with blood; sanguine.

2. Of or pertaining to blood; bloody; constituting blood. Sir T.
Browne.

3. Blood-red; crimson. Keats.

SANGUINITY
san*guin"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of being sanguine; sanguineness. Swift.

SANGUINIVOROUS
San"gui*niv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis + vorare to devour.]

Defn: Subsisting on blood.

SANGUINOLENCY
San*guin"o*len*cy, n.

Defn: The state of being sanguinolent, or bloody.

SANGUINOLENT
San*guin"o*lent, a. Etym: [L. sanguinolentus, from sanguis blood: cf.
F. sanguinolent.]

Defn: Tinged or mingled with blood; bloody; as, sanguinolent sputa.

SANGUISUGE
San"gui*suge, n. Etym: [L. sanguisuga; sanguis blood + sugere to
suck.] (Zool.)

Defn: A bloodsucker, or leech.

SANGUIVOROUS
San*guiv"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. sanguis blood + vorare to devour.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Subsisting upon blood; -- said of certain blood-sucking bats
and other animals. See Vampire.

SANHEDRIN; SANHEDRIM
San"he*drin, San"he*drim, n. Etym: [Heb. sanhedrin, fr. Gr. Sit.]
(Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: the great council of the Jews, which consisted of seventy
members, to whom the high priest was added. It had jurisdiction of
religious matters.

SANHEDRIST
San"he*drist, n.

Defn: A member of the sanhedrin. Schaeffer (Lange's Com. ).

SANHITA
San"hi*ta, n. Etym: [Skr. samhita, properly, combination.]

Defn: A collection of vedic hymns, songs, or verses, forming the
first part of each Veda.

SANICLE
San"i*cle, n. Etym: [F., from L. sanare to heal.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the umbelliferous genus Sanicula, reputed to have
healing powers.

SANIDINE
San"i*dine, n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of orthoclase feldspar common in certain eruptive
rocks, as trachyte; -- called also glassy feldspar.

SANIES
Sa"ni*es, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: A thin, serous fluid commonly discharged from ulcers or foul
wounds.

SANIOUS
Sa"ni*ous, a. Etym: [L. sanious, fr. sanies: cf. F. sanieux.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: pertaining to sanies, or partaking of its nature and
appearance; thin and serous, with a slight bloody tinge; as, the
sanious matter of an ulcer.

2. (med.)

Defn: Discharging sanies; as, a sanious ulcer.

SANITARIAN
San`i*ta"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to health, or the laws of health; sanitary.

SANITARIAN
San`i*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: An advocate of sanitary measures; one especially interested or
versed in sanitary measures.

SANITARIST
San"i*ta*rist, n.

Defn: A sanitarian.

SANITARIUM
San`i*ta"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL. See Sanitary.]

Defn: A health station or retreat; a sanatorium. "A sanitarium for
troops." L. Oliphant.

SANITARY
San"i*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. sanitas health: cf. F. sanitaire. See
Sanity.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to health; designed to secure or preserve
health; relating to the preservation or restoration of health;
hygienic; as, sanitary regulations. See the Note under Sanatory.
Sanitary Commission. See under Commission.

SANITATION
San`i*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of rendering sanitary; the science of sanitary
conditions; the preservation of health; the use of sanitary measures;
hygiene.
How much sanitation has advanced during the last half century. H.
Hartshorne.

SANITY
San"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. saniras, from sanus sound, healthy. See Sane.]

Defn: The condition or quality of being sane; soundness of health of
body or mind, especially of the mind; saneness.

SANJAK
San"jak, n. Etym: [Turk. sanjag.]

Defn: A district or a subvision of a vilayet. [Turkey]

SAN JOSE SCALE
San Jo*se" scale.

Defn: A very destructive scale insect (Aspidiotus perniciosus) that
infests the apple, pear, and other fruit trees. So called because
first introduced into the United States at San Jose, California.

SANK
Sank,

Defn: imp. of Sink.

SANKHA
Sank"ha, n. Etym: [Skr. cankha a shell.]

Defn: A chank shell (Turbinella pyrum); also, a shell bracelet or
necklace made in India from the chank shell.

SANKHYA
Sankh"ya, n.

Defn: A Hindoo system of philosophy which refers all things to soul
and a rootless germ called prakriti, consisting of three elements,
goodness, passion, and darkness. Whitworth.

SANNOP
San"nop (san"nop), n.

Defn: same as Sannup. Bancroft.

SANNUP
San"nup (-nup), n.

Defn: A male Indian; a brave; -- correlative of squaw.

SANNY
San"ny, n.

Defn: The sandpiper. [prov. Eng.]

SANS
Sans (san; E. sanz), prep. Etym: [F., from L. sine without.]

Defn: Without; deprived or destitute of. Rarely used as an English
word. "Sans fail." Chaucer.
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans everything. Shak.

SANSCRIT
San"scrit, n.

Defn: See Sanskrit.

SANS-CULOTTE
Sans`-cu`lotte" (F. ; E. , n. Etym: [F., without breeches.]

1. A fellow without breeches; a ragged fellow; -- a name of reproach
given in the first French revolution to the extreme republican party,
who rejected breeches as an emblem peculiar to the upper classes or
aristocracy, and adopted pantaloons.

2. Hence, an extreme or radical republican; a violent revolutionist;
a Jacobin.

SANS-CULOTTIC
Sans`-cu*lot"tic, a.

Defn: pertaining to, or involving, sans-culottism; radical;
revolutionary; Jacobinical. Carlyle.

SANS-CULOTTISM
Sans`-cu*lot"tism, n. Etym: [F. sans-culottisme.]

Defn: Extreme republican principles; the principles or practice of
the sans-culottes.

SANSKRIT
San"skrit, n. Etym: [Skr. Samskrsta the Sanskrit language, literally,
the perfect, polished, or classical language, fr. samskrsta prepared,
wrought, made,excellent, perfect; sam together (akin to E. same) +
krsta made. See Same, Create.] [Written also Sanscrit.]

Defn: The ancient language of the Hindoos, long since obsolete in
vernacular use, but preserved to the present day as the literary and
sacred dialect of India. It is nearly allied to the Persian, and to
the principal languages of Europe, classical and modern, and by its
more perfect preservation of the roots and forms of the primitive
language from which they are all descended, is a most important
assistance in determining their history and relations. Cf. Prakrit,
and Veda.

SANSKRIT
San"skrit, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sanskrit; written in Sanskrit; as, a
Sanskrit dictionary or inscription.

SANSKRITIC
San*skrit"ic, a.

Defn: Sanskrit.

SANSKRITIST
San"skrit*ist, n.

Defn: One versed in Sanskrit.

SANS-SOUCI
Sans`-sou`ci, adv. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Without care; free and easy.

SANTAL
San"tal, n. Etym: [Santalum + piperonal.] (Chem.)

Defn: A colorless crystalline substance, isomeric with piperonal, but
having weak acid properties. It is extracted from sandalwood.

SANTALACEOUS
San`ta*la"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Santalace?), of
which the genus Santalum is the type, and which includes the buffalo
nut and a few other North American plants, and many peculiar plants
of the southern hemisphere.

SANTALIC
San*tal"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or obtained from, sandalwood (Santalum); --
used specifically to designate an acid obtained as a resinous or red
crystalline dyestuff, which is called also santalin.

SANTALIN
San"ta*lin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. santaline.] (Chem.)

Defn: Santalic acid. See Santalic.

SANTALUM
San"ta*lum, n. Etym: [NL. See Sandalwood.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of trees with entire opposite leaves and small
apetalous flowers. There are less than a dozen species, occuring from
India to Australia and the Pacific Islands. See Sandalwood.

SANTEES
San`tees", n. pl.; sing. Santee (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of the seven confederated tribes of Indians belonging to
the Sioux, or Dakotas.

SANTER
San"ter, v. i.

Defn: See Saunter.

SANTON
San"ton, n. Etym: [Sp. santon, augment fr. santo holy, L. sanctus.]

Defn: A Turkish saint; a kind of dervish, regarded by the people as a
saint: also, a hermit.

SANTONATE
San"to*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of santonic acid.

SANTONIC
San*ton"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, an acid (distinct from
santoninic acid) obtained from santonin as a white crystalline
substance.

SANTONIN
San"to*nin, n. Etym: [L. herba santonica, a kind of plant, fr.
Santoni a people of Aquitania; cf. Gr. santonine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance having a bitter taste, extracted
from the buds of levant wormseed and used as an anthelmintic. It
occassions a peculiar temporary color blindness, causing objects to
appear as if seen through a yellow glass.

SANTONINATE
San"to*nin`ate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of santoninic acid.

SANTONINIC
San`to*nin"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to santonin; -- used specifically to designate
an acid not known in the free state, but obtained in its salts.

SAO
Sa"o, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any marine annelid of the genus Hyalin?cia, especially H.
tubicola of Europe, which inhabits a transparent movable tube
resembling a quill in color and texture.

SAP
Sap, n. Etym: [AS. s?p; akin to OHG. saf, G. saft, Icel. safi; of
uncertain origin; possibly akin to L. sapere to taste, to be wise,
sapa must or new wine boiled thick. Cf. Sapid, Sapient.]

1. The juice of plants of any kind, especially the ascending and
descending juices or circulating fluid essential to nutrition.

Note: The ascending is the crude sap, the assimilation of which takes
place in the leaves, when it becomes the elaborated sap suited to the
growth of the plant.

2. The sapwood, or alburnum, of a tree.

3. A simpleton; a saphead; a milksop. [Slang] Sap ball (Bot.), any
large fungus of the genus Polyporus. See Polyporus.
 -- Sap green, a dull light green pigment prepared from the juice of
the ripe berries of the Rhamnus catharticus, or buckthorn. It is used
especially by water-color artists.
 -- Sap rot, the dry rot. See under Dry.
 -- Sap sucker (Zool.), any one of several species of small American
woodpeckers of the genus Sphyrapicus, especially the yellow-bellied
woodpecker (S. varius) of the Eastern United States. They are so
named because they puncture the bark of trees and feed upon the sap.
The name is loosely applied to other woodpeckers.
 -- Sap tube (Bot.), a vessel that conveys sap.

SAP
Sap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saped; p. pr. & vb. n. Sapping.] Etym: [F.
saper (cf. Sp. zapar, It. zapare), fr. sape a sort of scythe, LL.
sappa a sort of mattock.]

1. To subvert by digging or wearing away; to mine; to undermine; to
destroy the foundation of.
Nor safe their dwellings were, for sapped by floods, Their houses
fell upon their household gods. Dryden.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: To pierce with saps.

3. To make unstable or infirm; to unsettle; to weaken.
Ring out the grief that saps the mind. Tennyson.

SAP
Sap, v. i.

Defn: To proceed by mining, or by secretly undermining; to execute
saps. W. P. Craighill.
Both assaults carried on by sapping. Tatler.

SAP
Sap, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A narrow ditch or trench made from the foremost parallel toward
the glacis or covert way of a besieged place by digging under cover
of gabions, etc. Sap fagot (Mil.), a fascine about three feet long,
used in sapping, to close the crevices between the gabions before the
parapet is made.
 -- Sap roller (Mil.), a large gabion, six or seven feet long, filled
with fascines, which the sapper sometimes rolls along before him for
protection from the fire of an enemy.

SAPADILLO
Sap`a*dil"lo, n.

Defn: See Sapodila.

SAPAJO
Sap"a*jo, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The sapajou.

SAPAJOU
Sap"a*jou, n. Etym: [F. sapajou, sajou, Braz. sajuassu.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of South American monkeys of the
genus Cebus, having long and prehensile tails. Some of the species
are called also capuchins. The bonnet sapajou (C. subcristatus), the
golden-handed sapajou (C. chrysopus), and the white-throated sapajou
(C. hypoleucus) are well known species. See Capuchin.

SAPAN WOOD
Sa*pan" wood. Etym: [Malay sapang.] (Bot.)

Defn: A dyewood yielded by C?salpinia Sappan, a thorny leguminous
tree of Southern Asia and the neighboring islands. It is the original
Brazil wood. [Written also sappan wood.]

SAPFUL
Sap"ful, a.

Defn: Abounding in sap; sappy.

SAPHEAD
Sap"head`, n.

Defn: A weak-minded, stupid fellow; a milksop. [Low]

SAPHENOUS
Sa*phe"nous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)
(a) Manifest; -- applied to the two principal superficial veins of
the lower limb of man.
(b) Of, pertaining to, or in the region of, the saphenous veins; as,
the saphenous nerves; the saphenous opening, an opening in the broad
fascia of the thigh through which the internal saphenous vein passes.

SAPID
Sap"id, a. Etym: [L. sapidus, fr. sapere to taste: cf. F. sapide. See
Sapient, Savor.]

Defn: Having the power of affecting the organs of taste; possessing
savor, or flavor.
Camels, to make the water sapid, do raise the mud with their feet.
Sir T. Browne.

SAPIDITY
Sa*pid"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sapidite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sapid; taste; savor; savoriness.
Whether one kind of sapidity is more effective than another. M. S.
Lamson.

SAPIDNESS
Sap"id*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being sapid; sapidity.
When the Israelites fancied the sapidness and relish of the
fleshpots, they longed to taste and to return. Jer. Taylor.

SAPIENCE
Sa"pi*ence, n. Etym: [L. sapientia: cf. F. sapience. See Sapient..]

Defn: The quality of being sapient; wisdom; sageness; knowledge.
Cowper.
Woman, if I might sit beside your feet, And glean your scattered
sapience. Tennyson.

SAPIENT
Sa"pi*ent, a. Etym: [L. sapiens, -entis, p.pr. of sapere to taste to
have sense, to know. See Sage, a.]

Defn: Wise; sage; discerning; -- often in irony or contempt.
Where the sapient king Held dalliance with his fair Egyptian spouse.
Milton.

Syn.
 -- Sage; sagacious; knowing; wise; discerning.

SAPIENTIAL
Sa`pi*en"tial, a. Etym: [L. sapientialis.]

Defn: Having or affording wisdom.
 -- Sa`pi*en"tial*ly, adv.
The sapiential books of the Old [Testament]. Jer. Taylor.

SAPIENTIOUS
Sa`pi*en"tious, a.

Defn: Sapiential. [Obs.]

SAPIENTIZE
Sa"pi*ent*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make sapient. [R.] Coleridge.

SAPIENTLY
Sa"pi*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sapient manner.

SAPINDACEOUS
Sap`in*da"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an order of trees and shrubs (Sapindace?),
including the (Typical) genus Sapindus, the maples, the margosa, and
about seventy other genera.

SAPINDUS
Sa*pin"dus, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sapo soap + Indicus Indian.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical and subtropical trees with pinnate leaves
and panicled flowers. The fruits of some species are used instead of
soap, and their round black seeds are made into necklaces.

SAPLESS
Sap"less, a.

1. Destitute of sap; not juicy.

2. Fig.: Dry, old; husky; withered; spiritless. "A somewhat sapless
womanhood." Lowell.
Now sapless on the verge of death he stands. Dryden.

SAPLING
sap"ling, n.

Defn: A young tree. Shak.

SAPODILLA
Sap`o*dil"la, n. Etym: [Sp. zapote, sapotillo, zapotillo, Mexican
cochit-zapotl. Cf. Sapota.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tall, evergeen, tropical American tree (Achras Sapota); also,
its edible fruit, the sapodilla plum. [Written also sapadillo,
sappadilo, sappodilla, and zapotilla.] Sapodilla plum (Bot.), the
fruit of Achras Sapota. It is about the size of an ordinary quince,
having a rough, brittle, dull brown rind, the flesh being of a dirty
yellowish white color, very soft, and deliciously sweet. Called also
naseberry. It is eatable only when it begins to be spotted, and is
much used in desserts.

SAPOGENIN
Sa*pog"e*nin, n. Etym: [Saponin + -gen + in.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance obtained by the decomposition of
saponin.

SAPONACEOUS
Sap`o*na"ceous, a. Etym: [L. sapo, -onis, soap, of Teutonic origin,
and akin to E. soap. See Soap.]

Defn: Resembling soap; having the qualities of soap; soapy.

Note: Saponaceous bodies are compounds of an acid and a base, and are
in reality a kind of salt.

SAPONACITY
Sap`o*nac"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being saponaceous.

SAPONARY
Sap"o*na*ry, a.

Defn: Saponaceous. Boyle.

SAPONIFIABLE
Sa*pon*i*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of conversion into soap; as, a saponifiable substance.

SAPONIFICATION
Sa*pon`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. saponification. See Saponify.]

Defn: The act, process, or result, of soap making; conversion into
soap; specifically (Chem.), the decomposition of fats and other
ethereal salts by alkalies; as, the saponification of ethyl acetate.

SAPONIFIER
Sa*pon"i*fi`er, n. (Chem.)

Defn: That which saponifies; any reagent used to cause
saponification.

SAPONIFY
Sa*pon"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saponified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Saponifying.] Etym: [L. sapo, -onis, soap + -fy: cf. F. saponifier.]

Defn: To convert into soap, as tallow or any fat; hence (Chem.), to
subject to any similar process, as that which ethereal salts undergo
in decomposition; as, to saponify ethyl acetate.

SAPONIN
Sap"o*nin, n. Etym: [L. sapo, -onis soap: cf. F. saponine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous glucoside found in many plants, as in the root of
soapwort (Saponaria), in the bark of soap bark (Quillaia), etc. It is
extracted as a white amorphus powder, which occasions a soapy lather
in solution, and produces a local an?stesia. Formerly called also
struthiin, quilaiin, senegin, polygalic acid, etc. By extension, any
one of a group of related bodies of which saponin proper is the type.

SAPONITE
Sap"o*nite, n. Etym: [Sw. saponit, fr. L. sapo, -onis, soap.] (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous silicate of magnesia and aluminia. It occurs in soft,
soapy, amorphous masses, filling veins in serpentine and cavities in
trap rock.

SAPONUL
Sap"o*nul, n. Etym: [F. saponule, fr. L. sapo, -onis, soap.] (Old
Chem.)

Defn: A soapy mixture obtained by treating an essential oil with an
alkali; hence, any similar compound of an essential oil. [Written
also saponule.] [Obs.]

SAPOR
Sa"por, n. Etym: [L. See Savor.]

Defn: Power of affecting the organs of taste; savor; flavor; taste.
There is some sapor in all aliments. Sir T. Browne.

SAPORIFIC
Sap`o*rif"ic, a. Etym: [L. sapor taste + facere to make.]

Defn: Having the power to produce the sensation of taste; producing
taste, flavor, or relish.

SAPOROSITY
Sap`o*ros"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality of a body by which it excites the sensation of
taste.

SAPOROUS
Sap"o*rous, a. Etym: [L. saporius that relishes well, savory, fr.
sapor taste.]

Defn: Having flavor or taste; yielding a taste. [R.] Bailey.

SAPOTA
Sa*po"ta, n. Etym: [NL., from Sp. sapote, zapote. See Sapodilla.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The sapodilla.

SAPOTACEOUS
Sap`o*ta"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order (Sapotace?) of (mostly
tropical) trees and shrubs, including the star apple, the Lucuma, or
natural marmalade tree, the gutta-percha tree (Isonandra), and the
India mahwa, as well as the sapodilla, or sapota, after which the
order is named.

SAPPAN WOOD
Sap*pan" wood".

Defn: Sapan wood.

SAPPARE
Sap"pare, n. Etym: [F. sappare; -- so called by Saussure.] (Min.)

Defn: Kyanite. [Written also sappar.]

SAPPER
Sap"per, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sapeur.]

Defn: One who saps; specifically (Mil.), one who is employed in
working at saps, building and repairing fortifications, and the like.

SAPPHIC
Sap"phic, a. Etym: [L. Sapphicus, Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to Sappho, the Grecian poetess; as, Sapphic odes;
Sapphic verse.

2. (Pros.)

Defn: Belonging to, or in the manner of, Sappho; -- said of a certain
kind of verse reputed to have been invented by Sappho, consisting of
five feet, of which the first, fourth, and fifth are trochees, the
second is a spondee, and the third a dactyl.

SAPPHIC
Sap"phic, n. (Pros.)

Defn: A Sapphic verse.

SAPPHIRE
Sap"phire ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [OE. saphir, F. saphir, L. sapphirus,
Gr. sappir.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: Native alumina or aluminium sesquioxide, Al2O3; corundum; esp.,
the blue transparent variety of corundum, highly prized as a gem.
of rubies, sapphires, and of pearles white. Chaucer.

Note: Sapphire occurs in hexagonal crystals and also in granular and
massive forms. The name sapphire is usually restricted to the blue
crystals, while the bright red crystals are called Oriental rubies
(see under Ruby), the amethystine variety Oriental amethyst (see
under Amethyst), and the dull massive varieties corundum (a name
which is also used as a general term to include all varieties). See
Corundum.

2. The color of the gem; bright blue.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any humming bird of the genus Hylocharis, native of South
America. The throat and breast are usually bright blue. Star
sapphire, or Asteriated sapphire (Min.), a kind of sapphire which
exhibits asterism.

SAPPHIRE
Sap"phire, a.

Defn: Of or resembling sapphire; sapphire; blue. "The sapphire
blaze." Gray.

SAPPHIRINE
Sap"phir*ine, n.

Defn: Resembling sapphire; made of sapphire; having the color, or any
quality of sapphire. "Sapphirine degree of hardness." Boyle.

SAPPHO
Sap"pho, n. Etym: [See Sapphic.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of brilliant South American humming
birds of the genus Sappho, having very bright-colored and deeply
forked tails; -- called also firetail.

SAPPINESS
Sap"pi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sappy; juiciness.

SAPPODILLA
Sap`po*dil"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sapodilla.

SAPPY
Sap"py, a. [Compar. Sappier; superl. Sappiest.] Etym: [From 1st Sap.]

1. Abounding with sap; full of sap; juisy; succulent.

2. Hence, young, not firm; weak, feeble.
When he had passed this weak and sapy age. Hayward.

3. Weak in intellect. [Low]

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Abounding in sap; resembling, or consisting lagerly of,
sapwood.

SAPPY
Sap"py, a. [Written also sapy.] Etym: [Cf. L. sapere to taste.]

Defn: Musty; tainted. [Obs.]

SAPROPHAGAN
Sa*proph"a*gan, n. Etym: [Gr. saprophage.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of a tribe of beetles which feed upon dacaying animal and
vegetable substances; a carrion beetle.

SAPROPHAGOUS
Sa*proph"a*gous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Feeding on carrion.

SAPROPHYTE
Sap"ro*phyte, n. Etym: [Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant growing on dacayed animal or vegetable matter, as
most fungi and some flowering plants with no green color, as the
Indian pipe.

SAPROPHYTIC
Sap`ro*phyt"ic, a.

Defn: Feeding or growing upon decaying anomal or vegetable matter;
pertaining to a saprophyte or the saprophytes.

SAPROPHYTISM
Sap"ro*phyt*ism, n.

Defn: State or fact of being saprophytic.

SAPSAGO
Sap"sa*go, n. Etym: [G. schabzieger; schaben to shave, to scrape +
zieger a sort of hey.]

Defn: A kind of Swiss cheese, of a greenish color, flavored with
melilot.

SAPSKULL
Sap"skull`, n.

Defn: A saphead. [Low]

SAPUCAIA
Sap`u*ca"ia (; Pg. , n. Etym: [Pg. sapucaya.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Brazilian tree. See Lecythis, and Monkey-pot. [Written also
sapucaya.] Sapucaia nut (Bot.), the seed of the sapucaia; -- called
also paradise nut.

SAPWOOD
Sap"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The alburnum, or part of the wood on any exogenous tree next to
the bark, being that portion of the tree through which the sap flows
most freely; -- distinguished from Heartwood.

SARABAITE
Sar"a*bai*te, n. Etym: [LL. Sarabaitae, pl.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of certain vagrant or heretical Oriental monks in the early
church.

SARABAND
Sar"a*band, n. Etym: [F. sarabande, Sp. zarabanda, fr. Per. serbend a
song.]

Defn: A slow Spanish dance of Saracenic origin, to an air in triple
time; also, the air itself.
She has brought us the newest saraband from the court of Queen Mab.
Sir W. Scott.

SARACEN
Sar"a*cen, n. Etym: [l. Saracenus perhaps fr. Ar. sharqi, pl.
sharqiin, Oriental Eastern, fr. sharaga to rise, said of the sun: cf.
F. sarrasin. Cf. Sarcenet, Sarrasin, Sirocco.]

Defn: Anciently, an Arab; later, a Mussulman; in the Middle Ages, the
common term among Christians in Europe for a Mohammedan hostile to
the crusaders. Saracen's consound (Bot.), a kind of ragewort (Senecio
Saracenicus), anciently used to heal wounds.

SARACENIC; SARACENICAL
Sar`a*cen"ic, Sar`a*cen"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Saracens; as, Saracenic architecture.
"Saracenic music." Sir W. Scott.

SARASIN
Sar"a*sin, n. (Arch.)

Defn: See Sarrasin.

SARASWATI
Sa`ras*wa"ti, n. Etym: [Skr. Sarasvati.] (Hind. Myth.)

Defn: The sakti or wife of Brahma; the Hindoo goddess of learning,
music, and poetry.

SARCASM
Sar"casm, n. Etym: [F. sarcasme, L. sarcasmu, Gr.

Defn: A keen, reproachful expression; a satirical remark uttered with
some degree of scorn or contempt; a taunt; a gibe; a cutting jest.
The sarcasms of those critics who imagine our art to be a matter of
inspiration. Sir J. Reynolds.

Syn.
 -- Satire; irony; ridicule; taunt; gibe.

SARCASMOUS
Sar*cas"mous, a.

Defn: Sarcastic. [Obs.] "Sarcasmous scandal." Hubidras.

SARCASTIC; SARCASTICAL
Sar*cas"tic, Sar*cas"tic*al, a.

Defn: Expressing, or expressed by, sarcasm; characterized by, or of
the nature of, sarcasm; given to the use of sarcasm; bitterly
satirical; scornfully severe; taunting.
What a fierce and sarcastic reprehension would this have drawn from
the friendship of the world! South.

SARCASTICALLY
Sar*cas"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sarcastic manner.

SARCEL
Sar"cel, n. Etym: [OF. cercel, F. cerceau, L. circellus, dim. of
circulus. See Circle.]

Defn: One of the outer pinions or feathers of the wing of a bird,
esp. of a hawk.

SARCELED
Sar"celed, a. (her.)

Defn: Cut through the middle.

SARCELLE
Sar`celle", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. querquedula.] (Zool.)

Defn: The old squaw, or long-tailed duck.

SARCENET
Sarce"net, n. Etym: [OF. sacenet; cf. LL. saracenium cloth made by
Saracens. See Saracen.]

Defn: A species of fine thin silk fabric, used for linings, etc.
[Written also sarsenet.]
Thou green sarcenet flap for a sore eye. Shak.

SARCIN
Sar"cin, n.

Defn: Same as Hypoxanthin.

SARCINA
Sar*ci"na, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: A genus of bacteria found in various organic fluids, especially
in those those of the stomach, associated with certain diseases. The
individual organisms undergo division along two perpendicular
partitions, so that multiplication takes place in two directions,
giving groups of four cubical cells. Also used adjectively; as, a
sarcina micrococcus; a sarcina group. Sarcina form (Biol.), the
tetrad form seen in the division of a dumb-bell group of micrococci
into four; -- applied particularly to bacteria. See micrococcus.

SARCLE
Sar"cle, v. t. Etym: [F. sarcler to weed, fr. L. sarculare to hoe,
fr. sarculum hoe.]

Defn: To weed, or clear of weeds, with a hoe. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

SARCO; SARCO-
Sar"co.

Defn: A combining form from Gr. flesh; as, sarcophagous, flesh-
eating; sarcology.

SARCOBASIS
Sar*cob"a*sis, n.; pl. Sarcobases. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A fruit consisting of many dry indehiscent cells, which contain
but few seeds and cohere about a common style, as in the mallows.

SARCOBLAST
Sar"co*blast, n. Etym: [Sarco- + -blast.] (Zool.)

Defn: A minute yellowish body present in the interior of certain
rhizopods.

SARCOCARP
Sar"co*carp, n. Etym: [Sacro- + Gr. sarcocarpe.] (Bot.)

Defn: the fleshy part of a stone fruit, situated between the skin, or
epicarp, and the stone, or endocarp, as in a peach. See Illust. of
Endocarp.

Note: The term has also been used to denote, any fruit which is
fleshy throughout. M. T. Masters.

SARCOCELE
Sar"co*cele, n. Etym: [Gr. sacrocele.] (Med.)

Defn: Any solid tumor of the testicle.

SARCOCOL; SARCOCOLLA
Sar"co*col, Sar`co*col"la, n. Etym: [L. sarcoccolla, from Gr.
sacrocolle.]

Defn: A gum resin obtained from certain shrubs of Africa (Pen?a), --
formerly thought to cause healing of wounds and ulcers.

SARCODE
Sar"code, n. Etym: [Gr. Sarcoid.] (Biol.)

Defn: A name applied by Dujardin in 1835 to the gelatinous material
forming the bodies of the lowest animals; protoplasm.

SARCODERM; SARCODERMA
Sar"co*derm, sar`co*der"ma, n. Etym: [NL. sacroderma. See Sarco-, and
Derm.] (Bot.)
(a) A fleshy covering of a seed, lying between the external and
internal integuments.
(b) A sarcocarp.

SARCODIC
Sar*cod"ic ( or ), a. (Biol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to sarcode.

SARCOID
Sar"coid, a. Etym: [Gr. Sarcode.] (Biol.)

Defn: Resembling flesh, or muscle; composed of sarcode.

SARCOLACTIC
Sar`co*lac"tic, a. Etym: [Sarco- + lactic.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: relating to muscle and milk; as, sarcolactic acid. See Lactic
acid, under Lactic.

SARCOLEMMA
Sar`co*lem"ma, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The very thin transparent and apparently homogenous sheath
which incloses a striated muscular fiber; the myolemma.

SARCOLINE
Sar"co*line, a. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: Flesh-colored.

SARCOLOGIC; SARCOLOGICAL
Sar`co*log"ic, Sar`co*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sarcology.

SARCOLOGY
Sar*col"o*gy, n. Etym: [Sarco- + -logy: cf. F. sarcologie.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of the soft parts. It
includes myology, angiology, neurology, and splanchnology.

SARCOMA
Sar*co"ma, n.; pl. L. Sarcomata (# or #), E. sarcomas. Etym: [NL.,
from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A tumor of fleshy consistence; -- formerly applied to many
varieties of tumor, now restricted to a variety of malignant growth
made up of cells resembling those of fetal development without any
proper intercellular substance.

SARCOMATOUS
Sar*com"a*tous ( or ), a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to sarcoma; resembling sarcoma.

SARCOPHAGA
Sar*coph"a*ga, n. pl. Etym: [NL., neut. pl. See Sarcophagus.] (Zool.)

Defn: A suborder of carnivorous and insectivorous marsupials
including the dasyures and the opossums.

SARCOPHAGA
Sar*coph"a*ga, n. Etym: [NL., frm. sing. See Sarcophagus.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of Diptera, including the flesh flies.

SARCOPHAGAN
Sar*coph"a*gan, n.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any animal which eats flesh, especially any carnivorous
marsupial.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any fly of the genus Sarcophaga.

SARCOPHAGOUS
Sar*coph"a*gous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Feeding on flesh; flesh-eating; carnivorous.

SARCOPHAGUS
Sar*coph"a*gus, n.; pl. L. Sarcophagi, E. Sarcophaguses. Etym: [L.,
fr. Gr. Sarcasm.]

1. A species of limestone used among the Greeks for making coffins,
which was so called because it consumed within a few weeks the flesh
of bodies deposited in it. It is otherwise called lapis Assius, or
Assian stone, and is said to have been found at Assos, a city of
Lycia. Holland.

2. A coffin or chest-shaped tomb of the kind of stone described
above; hence, any stone coffin.

3. A stone shaped like a sarcophagus and placed by a grave as a
memorial.

SARCOPHAGY
Sar*coph"a*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. Sarcophagus.]

Defn: The practice of eating flesh.

SARCOPHILE
Sar"co*phile, n. Etym: [Sacro- + Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A flesh-eating animal, especially any one of the carnivorous
marsupials.

SARCOPTES
Sar*cop"tes, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of parasitic mites including the itch mites.

SARCOPTID
Sar*cop"tid, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of the genus Sarcoptes and related genera of mites,
comprising the itch mites and mange mites.
 -- a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the itch mites.

SARCORHAMPHI
Sar`co*rham"phi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of raptorial birds composing the vultures.

SARCOSEPTUM
Sar`co*sep"tum, n.; pl. Sarcosepta. Etym: [Sarco- + septum.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of the mesenteries of an anthozoan.

SARCOSIN
Sar"co*sin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A crystalline nitrogenous substance, formed in the
decomposition of creatin (one of the constituents of muscle tissue).
Chemically, it is methyl glycocoll.

SARCOSIS
Sar*co"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) Abnormal formation of flesh.
(b) Sarcoma.

SARCOTIC
Sar*cot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. sarcotique.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing or promoting the growth of flesh. [R.] -- n.

Defn: A sarcotic medicine. [R.]

SARCOUS
Sar"cous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Fleshy; -- applied to the minute stryctural elements, called
sarcous elements, or sarcous disks, of which striated muscular fiber
is composed.

SARCULATION
Sar`cu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. sarculatio. See Sarcle.]

Defn: A weeding, as with a hoe or a rake.

SARD
Sard, n. Etym: [L. sarda, Gr. sarde. Cf. Sardius.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of carnelian, of a rich reddish yellow or brownish
red color. See the Note under Chalcedony.

SARDACHATE
Sar"da*chate, n. Etym: [L. sardachates: cf. F. Sardachate. See Sard,
and Agate.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of agate containing sard.

SARDAN; SARDEL
Sar"dan, Sar"del, n. Etym: [It. sardella. See Sardine a fish.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A sardine. [Obs.]

SARDEL
Sar"del, n.

Defn: A precious stone. See Sardius.

SARDINE
Sar"dine ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [F. sardine (cf. Sp. sardina, sarda,
It. sardina, sardella), L. sardina, sarda; cf. Gr. sardinia, Gr.
(Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several small species of herring which are commonly
preserved in olive oil for food, especially the pilchard, or European
sardine (Clupea pichardus). The California sardine (Clupea sagax) is
similar. The American sardines of the Atlantic coast are mostly the
young of the common herring and of the menhaden.

SARDINE
Sar"dine ( or ; 277), n.

Defn: See Sardius.

SARDINIAN
Sar*din"i*an, a. Etym: [L. Sardinianus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the island, kingdom, or people of Sardinia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Sardinia.

SARDIUS
Sar"di*us, n. Etym: [L. sardius, lapis sardinus, Gr. Sard.]

Defn: A precious stone, probably a carnelian, one of which was set in
Aaron's breastplate. Ex. xxviii. 17.

SARDOIN
Sar"doin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sardoine.] (Min.)

Defn: Sard; carnelian.

SARDONIAN
Sar*do"ni*an, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sardonien.]

Defn: Sardonic. [Obs.] "With Sardonian smile." Spenser.

SARDONIC
Sar*don"ic, a. Etym: [F. sardonique, L. sardonius, Gr. Sardinia, Gr.

Defn: Forced; unnatural; insincere; hence, derisive, mocking,
malignant, or bitterly sarcastic; -- applied only to a laugh, smile,
or some facial semblance of gayety.
Where strained, sardonic smiles are glozing still, And grief is
forced to laugh against her will. Sir H. Wotton.
The scornful, ferocious, sardonic grin of a bloody ruffian. Burke.
Sardonic grin or laugh, an old medical term for a spasmodic affection
of the muscles of the face, giving it an appearance of laughter.

SARDONIC
Sar*don"ic, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or resembling, a kind of linen made at
Colchis.

SARDONYX
Sar"do*nyx, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Sard, and Onyx.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of onyx consisting of sard and white chalcedony in
alternate layers.

SAREE
Sa"ree, n. Etym: [Hind.

Defn: The principal garment of a Hindoo woman. It consists of a long
piece of cloth, which is wrapped round the middle of the body, a
portion being arranged to hang down in front, and the remainder
passed across the bosom over the left shoulder.

SARGASSO
Sar*gas"so, n. Etym: [Sp. sargazo seaweed.] (Bot.)

Defn: The gulf weed. See under Gulf. Sargasso Sea, a large tract of
the North Atlantic Ocean where sargasso in great abundance floats on
the surface.

SARGASSUM
Sar*gas"sum, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A genus of alg? including the gulf weed.

SARGO
Sar"go, n. Etym: [Sp. sargo, L. sargus a kind of fish.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of sparoid fishes belonging to
Sargus, Pomodasys, and related genera; -- called also sar, and
saragu.

SARI
Sa"ri, n.

Defn: Same as Saree.

SARIGUE
Sa*rigue", n. Etym: [F., from Braz. carigueia, carigueira.] (Zool.)

Defn: A small South American opossum (Didelphys opossum), having four
white spots on the face.

SARK
Sark, n. Etym: [AS. serce, syrce, ashirt; akin to Icel. serkr, Sw.
sark.]

Defn: A shirt. [Scot.]

SARK
Sark, v. t. (Carp.)

Defn: To cover with sarking, or thin boards.

SARKIN
Sar"kin, n. Etym: [Gr. ( (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: Same as Hypoxanthin.

SARKING
Sark"ing, n. Etym: [From Sark shirt.] (Carp.)

Defn: Thin boards for shealting, as above the rafters, and under the
shingles or slates, and for similar purposes.

SARLAC; SARLYK
Sar"lac, Sar"lyk, n. Etym: [Mongolian sarlyk.] (Zool.)

Defn: The yak.

SARMATIAN; SARMATIC
Sar*ma"tian, Sar*mat"ic, a. Etym: [L. Sarmaticus.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sarmatia, or its inhabitants, the ancestors
of the Russians und the Poles.

SARMENT
Sar"ment, n. Etym: [L. sarmentum a twig, fr. sarpere to cut off, to
trim: cf. F. sarment.] (Bot.)

Defn: A prostrate filiform stem or runner, as of the strawbwrry. See
Runner.

SARMENTACEOUS
Sar`men*ta"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing sarments, or runners, as the strawberry.

SARMENTOSE
Sar`men*tose" ( or ), a. Etym: [L. sarmentosus: cf. F. sarmenteux.
See Sarment.] (Bot.)
(a) Long and filiform, and almost naked, or having only leaves at the
joints where it strikes root; as, a sarmentose stem.
(b) Bearing sarments; sarmentaceous.

SARMENTOUS
Sar*men"tous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Sarmentose.

SARN
Sarn, n. Etym: [W. sarn a causeway, paving.]

Defn: A pavement or stepping-stone. [Prov. Eng.] Johnson.

SARONG
Sa"rong, n. Etym: [Malay sarung.]

Defn: A sort of petticoat worn by both sexes in Java and the Malay
Archipelago. Balfour (Cyc. of India)

SAROS
Sa"ros, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Astron)

Defn: A Chaldean astronomical period or cycle, the length of which
has been variously estimated from 3,600 years to 3,600 days, or a
little short of 10 years. Brande & C.

SARPLAR
Sar"plar, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. sarplare. See Sarplier.]

Defn: A large bale or package of wool, containing eighty tods, or
2,240 pounds, in weight. [Eng.]

SARPLIER
Sar"plier, n. Etym: [F. serpilliere; cf. Pr. sargelheira, LL.
serpelleria, serpleria, Catalan sarpallera, Sp. arpillera.]

Defn: A coarse cloth made of hemp, and used for packing goods, etc.
[Written also sarpelere.] Tyrwhitt.

SARPO
Sar"po, n. Etym: [Corruption of Sp. sapo a toad.] (Zool.)

Defn: A large toadfish the Southern United States and the Gulf of
Mexico (Batrachus tau, var. pardus).

SARRACENIA
Sar`ra*ce"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL. So named after a Dr. Sarrazin of
Quebec.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of American perrenial herbs growing in bogs; the
American pitcher plant.

Note: They have hollow pitcher-shaped or tubular leaves, and solitary
flowers with an umbrella-shaped style. Sarracenia purpurea, the
sidesaddle flower, is common at the North; S. flava, rubra,
Drummondii, variolaris, and psittacina are Southern species. All are
insectivorous, catching and drowning insects in their curious leaves.
See Illust. of Sidesaddle flower, under Sidesaddle.

SARRASIN; SARRASINE
Sar"ra*sin, Sar"ra*sine, n. Etym: [F. sarrasine, LL. saracina. See
Saracen.] (Fort.)

Defn: A portcullis, or herse. [Written also sarasin.]

SARSA
Sar"sa, n.

Defn: Sarsaparilla. [Written also sarza.]

SARSAPARILLA
Sar`sa*pa*ril"la, n. Etym: [Sp. zarzaparrilla; zarza a bramble
(perhaps fr. Bisc. zartzia) + parra a vine, or Parillo, a physician
said to have discovered it.] (Bot.)
(a) Any plant of several tropical American species of Smilax.
(b) The bitter mucilaginous roots of such plants, used in medicine
and in sirups for soda, etc.

Note: The name is also applied to many other plants and their roots,
especially to the Aralia nudicaulis, the wild sarsaparilla of the
United States.

SARSAPARILLIN
Sar`sa*pa*ril"lin, n.

Defn: See Parillin.

SARSE
Sarse, n. Etym: [F. sas, OF. saas, LL. setatium, fr. L. seta a stiff
hair.]

Defn: A fine sieve; a searce. [Obs.]

SARSE
Sarse, v. t.

Defn: To sift through a sarse. [Obs.]

SARSEN
Sar"sen, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain; perhaps for saracen stone,
i.e., a heathen or pagan stone or monument.]

Defn: One of the large sandstone blocks scattered over the English
chalk downs; -- called also sarsen stone, and Druid stone. [Eng.]

SARSENET
Sarse"net, n.

Defn: See Sarcenet.

SART
Sart, n.

Defn: An assart, or clearing. [Obs.] Bailey.

SARTORIAL
Sar*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [See Sartorius.]

1. Of or pertaining to a tailor or his work.
Our legs skulked under the table as free from sartorial impertinences
as those of the noblest savages. Lowell.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to thesartorius muscle.

SARTORIUS
Sar*to"ri*us, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sartor a patcher, tailor, fr.
sarcire, sartum, to patch, mend.] (Anat.)

Defn: A muscle of the thigh, called the tailor's muscle, which arises
from the hip bone and is inserted just below the knee. So named
because its contraction was supposed to produce the position of the
legs assumed by the tailor in sitting.

SARUM USE
Sa"rum use`. (Ch. of Eng.)

Defn: A liturgy, or use, put forth about 1087 by St. Osmund, bishop
of Sarum, based on Anglo-Saxon and Norman customs.

SASH
Sash, n. Etym: [Pers. shast a sort of girdle.]

Defn: A scarf or band worn about the waist, over the shoulder, or
otherwise; a belt; a girdle, -- worn by women and children as an
ornament; also worn as a badge of distinction by military officers,
members of societies, etc.

SASH
Sash, v. t.

Defn: To adorn with a sash or scarf. Burke.

SASH
Sash, n. Etym: [F. sh a frame, sash, fr. sh a shrine, reliquary,
frame, L. capsa. See Case a box.]

1. The framing in which the panes of glass are set in a glazed window
or door, including the narrow bars between the panes.

2. In a sawmill, the rectangular frame in which the saw is strained
and by which it is carried up and down with a reciprocating motion; -
- also called gate. French sash, a casement swinging on hinges; -- in
distinction from a vertical sash sliding up and down.

SASH
Sash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sashing.]

Defn: To furnish with a sash or sashes; as, to sash a door or a
window.

SASHERY
Sash"er*y, n. Etym: [From 1st Sash.]

Defn: A collection of sashes; ornamentation by means of sashes. [R.]
Distinguished by their sasheries and insignia. Carlyle.

SASHOON
Sash"oon, n. Etym: [Etymology uncertain.]

Defn: A kind of pad worn on the leg under the boot. [Obs.] Nares.

SASIN
Sa"sin, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The Indian antelope (Antilope bezoartica, or cervicapra), noted
for its beauty and swiftness. It has long, spiral, divergent horns.

SASSABY; SASSABYE
Sas"sa*by, Sas"sa*bye, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A large African antelope (Alcelaphus tunata), similar to the
hartbeest, but having its horns regularly curved.

SASSAFRAS
Sas"sa*fras, n. Etym: [F. sassafras (cf. It. sassafrasso, sassafras,
Sp. sasafras, salsafras, salsifrax, salsifragia, saxifragia), fr. L.
saxifraga saxofrage. See Saxifrage.] (Bot.)

Defn: An American tree of the Laurel family (Sassafras officinale);
also, the bark of the roots, which has an aromatic smell and taste.
Australian sassafras, a lofty tree (Doryophora Sassafras) with
aromatic bark and leaves.
 -- Chilian sassafras, an aromatic tree (Laurelia sempervirens).
 -- New Zealand sassafras, a similar tree (Laurelia Nov? Zelandi?).
 -- Sassafras nut. See Pichurim bean.
 -- Swamp sassafras, the sweet bay (Magnolia glauca). See Magnolia.

SASSANAGE
Sas"sa*nage, n. Etym: [See Sarse a sieve.]

Defn: Stones left after sifting. Smart.

SASSARARA
Sas`sa*ra"ra, n. Etym: [Perh. a corruption of certiorari, the name of
a writ.]

Defn: A word used to emphasize a statement. [Obs.]
Out she shall pack, with a sassarara. Goldsmith.

SASSE
Sasse, n. Etym: [D. sas, fr. F. sas the basin of a waterfall.]

Defn: A sluice or lock, as in a river, to make it more navigable.
[Obs.] Pepys.

SASSENACH
Sas"sen*ach, n. Etym: [Gael. sasunnach.]

Defn: A Saxon; an Englishman; a Lowlander. [Celtic] Sir W. Scott.

SASSOLIN; SASSOLINE
Sas"so*lin, Sas"so*line, n. Etym: [From Sasso, a town in Italy: cf.
F. sassolin.] (Min.)

Defn: Native boric acid, found in saline incrustations on the borders
of hot springs near Sasso, in the territory of Florence.

SASSOROL; SASSOROLLA
Sas"so*rol, Sas`so*rol"la, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The rock pigeon. See under Pigeon.

SASSY BARK
Sas"sy bark`. (Bot.)

Defn: The bark of a West African leguminous tree (Erythrophl?um
Guineense, used by the natives as an ordeal poison, and also
medicinally; -- called also mancona bark.

SASTRA
Sas"tra, n.

Defn: Same as Shaster.

SASTRUGI
Sas*tru"gi.

Defn: Incorrect, but common, var. of Zastrugi.

SAT
Sat,

Defn: imp. of Sit. [Written also sate.]

SATAN
Sa"tan, n. Etym: [Heb. satan an adversary, fr. satan to be adverse,
to persecute: cf. GR. Satan, Satanas.]

Defn: The grand adversary of man; The Devil, or Prince of darkness;
the chief of the fallen angels; the archfiend.
I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven. Luke x. 18.

SATANIC; SATANICAL
Sa*tan"ic, Sa*tan"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. satanique, GR.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Satan; having the qualities of Satan;
resembling Satan; extremely malicious or wicked; devilish; infernal.
"Satanic strength." "Satanic host." Milton.
Detest the slander which, with a Satanic smile, exults over the
character it has ruined. Dr. T. Dwight.
-- Sa*tan"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Sa*tan"ic*al*ness, n.

SATANISM
Sa"tan*ism, n.

Defn: The evil and malicious disposition of Satan; a diabolical
sprit. [R.]

SATANIST
Sa"tan*ist, n.

Defn: A very wicked-person. [R.] Granger.

SATANOPHANY
Sa`tan*oph"a*ny, n. Etym: [Satan + Gr.

Defn: An incarnation of Satan; a being possessed by a demon. [R.] O.
A. Brownson.

SATCHEL
Satch"el n. Etym: [OF. sachel, fr. L. saccellus, dim. of saccus. See
Sack a bag.]

Defn: A little sack or bag for carrying papers, books, or small
articles of wearing apparel; a hand bag. [Spelled also sachel.]
The whining schoolboy with his satchel. Shak.

SATE
Sate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sated; p. pr. & vb. n. Sating.] Etym:
[Probably shortened fr. satiate: cf. L. satus full. See Satiate.]

Defn: To satisfy the desire or appetite of; to satiate; to glut; to
surfeit.
Crowds of wanderers sated with the business and pleasure of great
cities. Macaulay.

SATE
Sate,

Defn: imp. of Sit.
But sate an equal guest at every board. Lowell.

SATEEN
Sat*een", n. Etym: [Cf. Satin.]

Defn: A kind of dress goods made of cotton or woolen, with a glossy
surface resembling satin.

SATELESS
Sate"less, a.

Defn: Insatiable. [R.] Young.

SATELLITE
Sat"el*lite, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. Stelles, -itis, an attendant.]

1. An attendant attached to a prince or other powerful person; hence,
an obsequious dependent. "The satellites of power." I. Disraeli.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A secondary planet which revolves about another planet; as, the
moon is a satellite of the earth. See Solar system, under Solar.
Satellite moth (Zool.), a handsome European noctuid moth (Scopelosoma
satellitia).

SATELLITE
Sat"el*lite, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Situated near; accompanying; as, the satellite veins, those
which accompany the arteries.

SATELLITIOUS
Sat`el*li"tious, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or consisting of, satellites. [R.] Cheyne.

SATHANAS
Sath"an*as, n. [L. Satanas. See Satan]

Defn: Satan. [Obs.] Chaucer. Wyclif.

SATIATE
Sa"ti*ate, a. Etym: [L. satiatus, p. p. of satiare to satisfy, from
sat, satis, enough. See Sad, a., and cf. Sate.]

Defn: Filled to satiety; glutted; sated; -- followed by with or of.
"Satiate of applause." Pope.

SATIATE
Sa"ti*ate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Satiated; p. pr. & vb. n. Satiating.]

1. To satisfy the appetite or desire of; tho feed to the full; to
furnish enjoyment to, to the extent of desire; to sate; as, to
satiate appetite or sense.
These [smells] rather woo the sense than satiate it. Bacon.
I may yet survive the malice of my enemies, although they should be
satiated with my blood. Eikon Basilike.

2. To full beyond matural desire; to gratify to repletion or
loathing; to surfeit; to glut.

3. To saturate. [Obs.] Sir I. Newton.

Syn.
 -- To satisfy; sate; suffice; cloy; gorge; overfill; surfeit; glut.
 -- Satiate, Satisfy, Content. These words differ principally in
degree. To Content is to make contented, even though every desire or
appetite is not fully gratified. To satisfy is to appease fully the
longings of desire. To satiate is to fill so completely that it is
not possible to receive or enjoy more; hence, to overfill; to cause
disgust in.
Content with science in the vale of peace. Pope.
His whole felicity is endless strife;
No peace, no satisfaction, crowns his life. Beaumont.
He may be satiated, but not satisfied. Norris.

SATIATION
Sa`ti*a"tion, n.

Defn: Satiety.

SATIETY
Sa*ti"e*ty, n. Etym: [L. satietas, from satis, sat, enough: cf. F.
satiete.]

Defn: The state of being satiated or glutted; fullness of
gratification, either of the appetite or of any sensual desire;
fullness beyond desire; an excess of gratification which excites
wearisomeness or loathing; repletion; satiation.
In all pleasures there is satiety. Hakewill.
But thy words, with grace divine Imbued, bring to their sweetness no
satiety. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Repletion; satiation; surfeit; cloyment.

SATIN
Sat"in, n. Etym: [F. satin (cf. Pg. setim), fr. It. setino, from seta
silk, L. saeta, seta, a thick, stiff hair, a bristle; or possibly
ultimately of Chinese origin; cf. Chin. sz-tun, sz-twan. Cf. Sateen.]

Defn: A silk cloth, of a thick, close texture, and overshot woof,
which has a glossy surface.
Cloths of gold and satins rich of hue. Chaucer.
Denmark satin, a kind of lasting; a stout worsted stuff, woven with a
satin twill, used for women's shoes.
 -- Farmer's satin. See under Farmer.
 -- Satin bird (Zool.), an Australian bower bird. Called also satin
grackle.
 -- Satin flower (Bot.) See Honesty, 4.
 -- Satin spar. (Min.) (a) A fine fibrous variety of calcite, having
a pearly luster. (b) A similar variety of gypsum.
 -- Satin sparrow (Zool.), the shining flycatcher (Myiagra nitida) of
Tasmania and Australia. The upper surface of the male is rich
blackish green with a metallic luster.
 -- Satin stone, satin spar.

SATINET
Sat`i*net", n. Etym: [F., fr. satin. See Satin.]

1. A thin kind of satin.

2. A kind of cloth made of cotton warp and woolen filling, used
chiefly for trousers.

SATINETTE
Sat`i*nette", n.

Defn: One of a breed of fancy frilled pigeons allied to the owls and
turbits, having the body white, the shoulders tricolored, and the
tail bluish black with a large white spot on each feather.

SATIN WEAVE
Sat"in weave.

Defn: A style of weaving producing smooth-faced fabric in which the
warp interlaces with the filling at points distributed over the
surface.

SATINWOOD
sat"in*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The hard, lemon-colored, fragrant wood of an East Indian tree
(Chloroxylon Swietnia). It takes a lustrous finish, and is used in
cabinetwork. The name is also given to the wood of a species of
prickly ash (Xanthoxylum Carib?um) growing in Florida and the West
Indies.

SATINY
Sat"in*y, a.

Defn: Like or composed of satin; glossy; as, to have a satiny
appearance; a satiny texture.

SATION
Sa"tion, n. Etym: [L. satio, fr. serere, satum, to sow.]

Defn: A sowing or planting. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SATIRE
Sat"ire (; in Eng. often , n. Etym: [L. satira, satura, fr. satura
(sc. lanx) a dish filled with various kinds of fruits, food composed
of various ingredients, a mixture, a medley, fr. satur full of food,
sated, fr. sat, satis, enough: cf. F. satire. See Sate, Sad, a., and
cf. Saturate.]

1. A composition, generally poetical, holding up vice or folly to
reprobation; a keen or severe exposure of what in public or private
morals deserves rebuke; an invective poem; as, the Satires of
Juvenal.

2. Keeness and severity of remark; caustic exposure to reprobation;
trenchant wit; sarcasm.

Syn.
 -- Lampoon; sarcasm; irony; ridicule; pasquinade; burlesque; wit;
humor.

SATIRIC; SATIRICAL
Sa*tir"ic, Sa*tir"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. satiricus: cf. F. satirique.]

1. Of or pertaining to satire; of the nature of satire; as, a satiric
style.

2. Censorious; severe in language; sarcastic; insulting. "Satirical
rogue." Shak.

Syn.
 -- Cutting; caustic; poignant; sarcastic; ironical; bitter;
reproachful; abusive.
 -- Sa*tir"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Sa*tir"ic*al*ness, n.

SATIRIST
Sat"ir*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. satiriste.]

Defn: One who satirizes; especially, one who writes satire.
The mighty satirist, who . . . had spread through the Whig ranks.
Macaulay.

SATIRIZE
Sat"ir*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Satirized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Satirizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. satiriser.]

Defn: To make the object of satire; to attack with satire; to censure
with keenness or severe sarcasm.
It is as hard to satirize well a man of distinguished vices, as to
praise well a man of distinguished virtues. Swift.

SATISFACTION
Sat`is*fac"tion, n. Etym: [OE. satisfaccioum, F. satisfaction, fr. L.
satisfactio, fr. satisfacere to satisfy. See Satisfy.]

1. The act of satisfying, or the state of being satisfied;
gratification of desire; contentment in possession and enjoyment;
repose of mind resulting from compliance with its desires or demands.
The mind having a power to suspend the execution and satisfaction of
any of its desires. Locke.

2. Settlement of a claim, due, or demand; payment; indemnification;
adequate compensation.
We shall make full satisfaction. Shak.

3. That which satisfies or gratifiles; atonement.
Die he, or justice must; unless or him Some other, able, and as
willing, pay The rigid satisfaction, death for death. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Contentment; content; gratification; pleasure; recompence;
compensation; amends; remuneration; indemnification; atonement.

SATISFACTIVE
Sat`is*fac"tive, a.

Defn: Satisfactory. [Obs.]
Satisfactive discernment of fish. Sir T. Browne.

SATISFACTORY
Sat`is*fac"to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. satisfactoire.]

1. Giving or producing satisfaction; yielding content; especially,
relieving the mind from doubt or uncertainty, and enabling it to rest
with confidence; sufficient; as, a satisfactory account or
explanation.

2. Making amends, indemnification, or recompense; causing to cease
from claims and to rest content; compensating; atoning; as, to make
satisfactory compensation, or a satisfactory apology.
A most wise and sufficient means of redemption and salvation, by the
satisfactory and meritorius death and obedience of the incarnate Son
of God, Jesus Christ. Bp. Sanderson.
-- Sat`is*fac"to*ri*ty, adv.
 -- Sat`is*fac"to*ri*ness, n.

SATISFIABLE
Sat"is*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be satisfied.

SATISFIER
Sat"is*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who satisfies.

SATISFY
Sat"is*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Satisfied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Satisfying.] Etym: [OF. satisfier; L. satis enough + -ficare (in
comp.) to make; cf. F. satisfaire, L. satisfacere. See Sad, a., and
Fact.]

1. In general, to fill up the measure of a want of (a person or a
thing); hence, to grafity fully the desire of; to make content; to
supply to the full, or so far as to give contentment with what is
wished for.
Death shall . . . with us two Be forced to satisfy his ravenous maw.
Milton.

2. To pay to the extent of chaims or deserts; to give what is due to;
as, to satisfy a creditor.

3. To answer or discharge, as a claim, debt, legal demand, or the
like; to give compensation for; to pay off; to requitte; as, to
satisfy a claim or an execution.

4. To free from doubrt, suspense, or uncertainty; to give assurance
to; as, to satisfy one's self by inquiry.
The standing evidences of the truth of the gospel are in themselves
most firm, solid, and satisfying. Atterbury.

Syn.
 -- To satiate; sate; content; grafity; compensate. See Satiate.

SATISFY
Sat"is*fy, v. i.

1. To give satisfaction; to afford gratification; to leave nothing to
be desire.

2. To make payment or atonement; to atone. Milton.

SATISFYINGLY
Sat"is*fy`ing*ly, adv.

Defn: So as to satisfy; satisfactorily.

SATIVE
Sa"tive, a. Etym: [L. sativus, fr. serere, satum, to sow.]

Defn: Sown; propagated by seed. [Obs.] Evelyn.

SATLE
Sa"tle, v. t. & i.

Defn: To settle. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SATRAP
Sa"trap ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [L. satrapes, Gr. khsatrapavan ruler:
cf. F. satrape.]

Defn: The governor of a province in ancient Persia; hence, a petty
autocrat despot.

SATRAPAL
Sa"trap*al ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a satrap, or a satrapy.

SATRAPESS
Sa"trap*ess ( or ), n.

Defn: A female satrap.

SATRAPICAL
Sa*trap"ic`al, a.

Defn: Satrapal. [R.]

SATRAPY
Sa"trap*y, n.; pl. Satrapies. Etym: [L. satrapia, satrapea, Gr.
satrapie.]

Defn: The government or jurisdiction of a satrap; a principality.
Milton.

SATSUMA WARE
Sat"su*ma ware" ( or ). (Fine Arts)

Defn: A kind of ornamental hard-glazed pottery made at Satsuma in
Kiushu, one of the Japanese islands.

SATURABLE
Sat"u*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. saturabilis: cf. F. saturable.]

Defn: Capable of being saturated; admitting of saturation.
 -- Sat`u*ra*bil"i*ty, n.

SATURANT
Sat"u*rant, a. Etym: [L. saturans, p. pr. See Saturate.]

Defn: Impregnating to the full; saturating.

SATURANT
Sat"u*rant, n.

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance used to neutralize or saturate the affinity of
another substance.

2. (Med.)

Defn: An antacid, as magnesia, used to correct acidity of the
stomach.

SATURATE
Sat"u*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saturated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Saturating.] Etym: [L. saturatus, p.p. of saturate to saturate, fr.
satur full of food, sated. See Satire.]

1. To cause to become completely penetrated, impregnated, or soaked;
to fill fully; to sate.
Innumerable flocks and herbs covered that vast expanse of emerald
meadow saturated with the moisture of the Atlantic. Macaulay.
Fill and saturate each kind With good according to its mind. Emerson.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: To satisfy the affinity of; to cause to become inert by
chemical combination with all that it can hold; as, to saturate
phosphorus with chlorine.

SATURATE
Sat"u*rate, p. a. Etym: [L. saturatus, p. p.]

Defn: Filled to repletion; saturated; soaked.
Dries his feathers saturate with dew. Cowper.
The sand beneath our feet is saturate With blood of martyrs.
Longfellow.

SATURATED
Sat"u*ra`ted, a.

1. Filled to repletion; holding by absorption, or in solution, all
that is possible; as, saturated garments; a saturated solution of
salt.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: Having its affinity satisfied; combined with all it can hold; -
- said of certain atoms, radicals, or compounds; thus, methane is a
saturated compound. Contrasted with unsaturated.

Note: A saturated compound may exchange certain ingredients for
others, but can not take on more without such exchange. Saturated
color (Optics), a color not diluted with white; a pure unmixed color,
like those of the spectrum.

SATURATION
Sat`u*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. saturatio: cf. F. saturation.]

1. The act of saturating, or the state of being saturating; complete
penetration or impregnation.

2. (Chem.)

Defn: The act, process, or result of saturating a substance, or of
combining it to its fullest extent.

3. (Optics)

Defn: Freedom from mixture or dilution with white; purity; -- said of
colors.

Note: The degree of saturation of a color is its relative purity, or
freedom from admixture with white.

SATURATOR
sat"u*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, saturates.

SATURDAY
Sat"ur*day (; 48), n. Etym: [OE. Saterday, AS. S?terd?g, S?ternd?g,
S?ternesd?g, literally, Saturn's day, fr. L. Saturnus Saturn + AS.
d?g day; cf. L. dies Saturni.]

Defn: The seventh or last day of the week; the day following Friday
and preceding Sunday.

SATURITY
Sa*tu"ri*ty, n. Etym: [L. saturitas, fr. satur full of food, sated.]

Defn: The state of being saturated; fullness of supply. [Obs.]
Warner.

SATURN
Sa"turn, n. Etym: [L. Saturnus, literally, the saower, fr. serere,
satum, to sow. See Season.]

1. (Roman Myth.)

Defn: One of the elder and principal deities, the son of Coelus and
Terra (Heaven and Earth), anf the father of Jupiter. The
corresponding Greek divinity was Kro`nos, later CHro`nos, Time.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: One of the planets of the solar system, next in magnitude to
Jupiter, but more remote from the sun. Its diameter is seventy
thousand miles, its mean distance from the sun nearly eight hundred
and eighty millions of miles, and its year, or periodical revolution
round the sun, nearly twenty-nine years and a half. It is surrounded
by a remarkable system of rings, and has eight satellites.

3. (Alchem.)

Defn: The metal lead. [Archaic]

SATURNALIA
Sat`ur*na"li*a, n. pl. Etym: [L. See Saturn.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: the festival of Saturn, celebrated in December, originally
during one day, but afterward during seven days, as a period of
unrestrained license and merriment for all classes, extending even to
the slaves.

2. Hence: A period or occasion of general licemse, in which the
passions or vices have riotous indulgence.

SATURNALIAN
Sat`ur*na"li*an, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the Saturnalia.

2. Of unrestrained and intemperate jollity; riotously merry;
dissolute. "Saturnalian amusement." Burke.

SATURNIAN
Sa*tur"ni*an, a. Etym: [L. Saturnius.]

1. (Roman Myth.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to Saturn, whose age or reign, from the
mildness and wisdom of his government, is called the golden age.

2. Hence: Resembling the golden age; distinguished for peacefulness,
happiness, contentment.
Augustus, born to bring Saturnian times. Pope.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the planet Saturn; as, the Saturnian year.
Saturnian verse (Pros.), a meter employed by early Roman satirists,
consisting of three iambics and an extra syllable followed by three
trochees, as in the line: --The queen | was isn | the kistch | en
eating | bread and | honey.

SATURNIAN
Sa*tur"ni*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large handsome moths belonging
to Saturnia and allied genera. The Luna moth, polyphemus, and
promethea, are examples. They belong to the Silkworn family, and some
are raised for their silk. See Polyphemus.

SATURNICENTRIC
Sat`urn*i*cen"tric, a. (Astron.)

Defn: Appearing as if seen from the center of the planet Saturn;
relating or referred to Saturn as a center.

SATURNINE
Sat"ur*nine, a. Etym: [L. Saturnus the god Saturn, also, the planet
Saturn: cf. F. saturnin of or pertaining to lead (Saturn, in old
chemistry, meaning lead),saturnien saturnine, saturnian. See Saturn.]

1. Born under, or influenced by, the planet Saturn.

2. Heavy; grave; gloomy; dull; -- the opposite of mercurial; as, a
saturnine person or temper. Addison.

3. (Old Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to lead; characterized by, or resembling,
lead, which was formerly called Saturn. [Archaic] Saturnine colic
(Med.), lead colic.

SATURNISM
Sat"ur*nism, n. (Med.)

Defn: Plumbum. Quain.

SATURNIST
Sat"ur*nist, n.

Defn: A person of a dull, grave, gloomy temperament. W. browne.

SATYR
Sa"tyr, n. Etym: [L. satyrus, Gr. satyre.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A sylvan deity or demigod, represented as part man and part
goat, and characterized by riotous merriment and lasciviousness.
Rough Satyrs danced; and Fauns, with cloven heel, From the glad sound
would not be absent long. Milton.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of many species of butterflies belonging to the family
Nymphalid?. Their colors are commonly brown and gray, often with
ocelli on the wings. Called also meadow browns.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The orangoutang.

SATYRIASIS
Sat`y*ri"a*sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. Satyr.]

Defn: Immoderate venereal appetite in the male. Quain.

SATYRIC; SATYRICAL
Sa*tyr"ic, Sa*tyr"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. satyricus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to satyrs; burlesque; as, satyric tragedy. P.
Cyc.

SATYRION
Sa*tyr"i*on, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several kinds of orchids. [Obs.]

SAUBA ANT
Sau"ba ant`. (Zool.)

Defn: A South American ant (Ecodoma cephalotes) remarkable for having
two large kinds of workers besides the ordinary ones, and for the
immense size of its formicaries. The sauba ant cuts off leaves of
plants and carries them into its subterranean nests, and thus often
does great damage by defoliating trees and cultivated plants.

SAUCE
Sauce, n. Etym: [F., fr. OF. sausse, LL. salsa, properly, salt
pickle, fr. L. salsus salted, salt, p.p. of salire to salt, fr. sal
salt. See Salt, and cf. Saucer, Souse pickle, Souse to plunge.]

1. A composition of condiments and appetizing ingredients eaten with
food as a relish; especially, a dressing for meat or fish or for
puddings; as, mint sauce; sweet sauce, etc. "Poignant sauce."
Chaucer.
High sauces and rich spices fetched from the Indies. Sir S. Baker.

2. Any garden vegetables eaten with meat. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.]
Forby. Bartlett.
Roots, herbs, vine fruits, and salad flowers . . . they dish up
various ways, and find them very delicious sauce to their meats, both
roasted and boiled, fresh and salt. Beverly.

3. Stewed or preserved fruit eaten with other food as a relish; as,
apple sauce, cranberry sauce, etc. [U.S.] "Stewed apple sauce." Mrs.
Lincoln (Cook Book).

4. Sauciness; impertinence. [Low.] Haliwell. To serve one the same
sauce, to retaliate in the same kind. [Vulgar]

SAUCE
Sauce, v. t. Etym: [Cf. F. saucer.] [imp. & p. p. Sauced (; p. pr. &
vb. n. Saucing (.]

1. To accompany with something intended to give a higher relish; to
supply with appetizing condiments; to season; to flavor.

2. To cause to relish anything, as if with a sauce; to tickle or
gratify, as the palate; to please; to stimulate; hence, to cover,
mingle, or dress, as if with sauce; to make an application to. [R.]
Earth, yield me roots; Who seeks for better of thee, sauce his palate
With thy most operant poison! Shak.

3. To make poignant; to give zest, flavor or interest to; to set off;
to vary and render attractive.
Then fell she to sauce her desires with threatenings. Sir P. Sidney.

4. To treat with bitter, pert, or tart language; to be impudent or
sancy to. [Colloq. or Low]
I'll sauce her with bitter words. Shak.

SAUCE
Sauce, n. Etym: [F.] (Fine Art)

Defn: A soft crayon for use in stump drawing or in shading with the
stump.

SAUCE-ALONE
Sauce"-a*lone`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Bot.)

Defn: Jack-by-the-hedge. See under Jack.

SAUCEBOX
Sauce"box`, n. Etym: [See Sauce, and Saucy.]

Defn: A saucy, impudent person; especially, a pert child.
Saucebox, go, meddle with your lady's fan, And prate not here! A.
Brewer.

SAUCEPAN
Sauce"pan`, n.

Defn: A small pan with a handle, in which sauce is prepared over a
fire; a stewpan.

SAUCER
Sau"cer, n. Etym: [F. sauciere, from sauce. see Sauce.]

1. A small pan or vessel in which sauce was set on a table. [Obs.]
Bacon.

2. A small dish, commonly deeper than a plate, in which a cup is set
at table.

3. Something resembling a saucer in shape. Specifically:
(a) A flat, shallow caisson for raising sunken ships.
(b) A shallow socket for the pivot of a capstan. Flying saucer, a
type of Unidentified Flying Object, having a biconvex discoid shape;
such objects are occasionally reported to have been sighted, but no
example of one has been reliably shown to exist. They are believed by
ufologists to originate in outer space, but they are generally
presumed to be misinterpretations of ordinary phenomena, illusions or
imaginary objects. Fraudulent photographs purporting to show flying
saucers are published from time to time.

SAUCILY
Sau"ci*ly, adv.

Defn: In a saucy manner; impudently; with impertinent boldness.
Addison.

SAUCINESS
Sau"ci*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being saucy; that which is saucy;
impertinent boldness; contempt of superiors; impudence.
Your sauciness will jest upon my love. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Impudence; impertinence; rudeness; insolence. see Impudence.

SAUCISSON; SAUCISSE
Sau`cis`son", Sau`cisse", n. Etym: [F., fr. saucisse sausage. See
Sausage.]

1. (Mining or Gun.)

Defn: A long and slender pipe or bag, made of cloth well pitched, or
of leather, filled with powder, and used to communicate fire to
mines, caissons, bomb chests, etc.

2. (Fort.)

Defn: A fascine of more than ordinary length.

SAUCY
Sau"cy, a. [Compar. Saucier; superl. Sauciest.] Etym: [From Sauce.]

1. Showing impertinent boldness or pertness; transgressing the rules
of decorum; treating superiors with contempt; impudent; insolent; as,
a saucy fellow.
Am I not protector, saucy priest Shak.

2. Expressive of, or characterized by, impudence; impertinent; as, a
saucy eye; saucy looks.
We then have done you bold and sausy wrongs. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Impudent; insolent; impertinent; rude.

SAUERKRAUT
Sauer"kraut`, n. Etym: [G., fr. sauer sour + kraut herb, cabbage.]

Defn: Cabbage cut fine and allowed to ferment in a brine made of its
own juice with salt, -- a German dish.

SAUF
Sauf, a.

Defn: Safe. [Obs.] haucer.

SAUF
Sauf, conj. & prep.

Defn: Save; except. [Obs.] "Sauf I myself." Chaucer.

SAUFLY
Sauf"ly, adv.

Defn: Safely. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SAUGER
Sau"ger, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An American fresh-water food fish (Stizostedion Canadense); --
called also gray pike, blue pike, hornfish, land pike, sand pike,
pickering, and pickerel.

SAUGH; SAUH
Saugh, Sauh, obs.

Defn: imp. sing. of See. Chaucer.

SAUKS
Sauks, n. pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Same as Sacs.

SAUL
Saul, n.

Defn: Soul. [Obs.]

SAUL
Saul, n.

Defn: Same as Sal, the tree.

SAULIE
Sau"lie, n.

Defn: A hired mourner at a funeral. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

SAULT
Sault, n. Etym: [OF., F. saut, fr. L. saltus See Salt a leap.]

Defn: A rapid in some rivers; as, the Sault Ste. Marie. [U.S.]
Bartlett.

SAUNDERS
Saun"ders, n.

Defn: See Sandress.

SAUNDERS-BLUE
Saun"ders-blue`, n. Etym: [Corrupted fr. F. cendres bleues blue
ashes.]

Defn: A kind of color prepared from calcined lapis lazuli;
ultramarine; also, a blue prepared from carbonate of copper. [Written
also sanders-blue.]

SAUNTER
Saun"ter, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sauntered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sauntering.]
Etym: [Written also santer.] Etym: [Probably fr. F. s'aventurer to
adventure (one's self), through a shortened form s'auntrer. See
Adventure, n. & v.]

Defn: To wander or walk about idly and in a leisurely or lazy manner;
to lounge; to stroll; to loiter.
One could lie under elm trees in a lawn, or saunter in meadows by the
side of a stream. Masson.

Syn.
 -- To loiter; linger; stroll; wander.

SAUNTER
Saun"ter, n.

Defn: A sauntering, or a sauntering place.
That wheel of fops, that saunter of the town. Young.

SAUNTERER
Saun"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who saunters.

SAUR
Saur, n. Etym: [Contracted from Gael. salachar filth, nastiness, fr.
salach nasty, fr. sal filth, refuse.]

Defn: Soil; dirt; dirty water; urine from a cowhouse. [Prov. Eng.]

SAUREL
Sau"rel, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any carangoid fish of the genus Trachurus, especially T.
trachurus, or T. saurus, of Europe and America, and T. picturatus of
California. Called also skipjack, and horse mackarel.

SAURIA
Sau"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of Reptilia formerly established to include the
Lacertilia, Crocodilia, Dinosauria, and other groups. By some writers
the name is restricted to the Lacertilia.

SAURIAN
Sau"ri*an, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to, or of the nature of, the Sauria.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Sauria.

SAURIOID
Sau"ri*oid, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Sauroid.

SAUROBATRACHIA
Sau"ro*ba*tra"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Sauria, and Batrachia.]
(Zool.)

Defn: The Urodela.

SAUROGNATHOUS
Sau*rog"na*thous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the bones of the palate arranged as in saurians, the
vomer consisting of two lateral halves, as in the woodpeckers.
(Pici).

SAUROID
Sau"roid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. Gr. (Zool.)
(a) Like or pertaining to the saurians.
(b) Resembling a saurian superficially; as, a sauroid fish.

SAUROIDICHNITE
Sau`roid*ich"nite, n. Etym: [See Sauroid, and Ichnite.] (Paleon.)

Defn: The fossil track of a saurian.

SAUROPODA
Sau*rop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. -poda.] (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of herbivorous dinosaurs having the feet of a
saurian type, instead of birdlike, as they are in many dinosaurs. It
includes the Largest Known land animals, belonging to Brontosaurus,
Camarasaurus, and alied genera. See Illustration in Appendix.

SAUROPSIDA
Sau*rop"si*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A comprehensive group of vertebrates, comprising the reptiles
and birds.

SAUROPTERYGIA
Sau*rop`te*ryg"i*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: Same as Plesiosauria.

SAURURAE
Sau*ru"r?, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct order of birds having a long vertebrated tail with
quills along each side of it. Arch?opteryx is the type. See
Arch?opteryx, and Odontornithes.

SAURY
Sau"ry, n.; pl. Sauries. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zool.)

Defn: A slender marine fish (Scombresox saurus) of Europe and
America. It has long, thin, beaklike jaws. Called also billfish,
gowdnook, gawnook, skipper, skipjack, skopster, lizard fish, and
Egypt herring.

SAUSAGE
Sau"sage (; 48), n. Etym: [F. saucisse, LL. salcitia, salcicia, fr.
salsa. See Sauce.]

1. An article of food consisting of meat (esp. pork) minced and
highly seasoned, and inclosed in a cylindrical case or skin usually
made of the prepared intestine of some animal.

2. A saucisson. See Saucisson. Wilhelm.

SAUSEFLEM
Sau"se*flem, a. Etym: [OF. saus salt (L. salsus) + flemme phlegm.]

Defn: Having a red, pimpled face. [Obs.] [Written also sawceflem.]
Chaucer.

SAUSSURITE
Saus"sur*ite, n. Etym: [F. So called from M. Saussure.] (Min.)

Defn: A tough, compact mineral, of a white, greenish, or grayish
color. It is near zoisite in composition, and in part, at least, has
been produced by the alteration of feldspar.

SAUT; SAUTE
Saut, Saute, n.

Defn: An assault. [Obs.]

SAUTE
Sau`te",

Defn: p. p. of Sauter. C. Owen.

SAUTER
Sau`ter", v. t. Etym: [F., properly, to jump.]

Defn: To fry lightly and quickly, as meat, by turning ot tossing it
over frequently in a hot pan greased with a little fat.

SAUTER
Sau"ter, n.

Defn: Psalter. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

SAUTERELLE
Sau`te*relle, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: An instrument used by masons and others to trace and form
angles.

SAUTERNE
Sau`terne", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A white wine made in the district of sauterne, France.

SAUTRIE
Sau"trie, n.

Defn: Psaltery. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SAUVEGARDE
Sau`ve*garde", n. Etym: [F.] (Zool.)

Defn: The monitor.

SAVABLE
Sav"a*ble, a. Etym: [From Save. Cf. Salvable.]

Defn: capable of, or admitting of, being saved.
In the person prayed for there ought to be the great disposition of
being in a savable condition. Jer. Taylor.

SAVABLENESS
Sav"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Capability of being saved.

SAVACIOUN
Sa*va"ci*oun`, n.

Defn: Salvation. [Obs.]

SAVAGE
Sav"age (; 48), a. Etym: [F. sauvage, OF. salvage, fr. L. silvaticus
belonging to a wood, wild, fr. silva a wood. See Silvan, and cf.
Sylvatic.]

1. Of or pertaining to the forest; remote from human abodes and
cultivation; in a state of nature; nature; wild; as, a savage
wilderness.

2. Wild; untamed; uncultivated; as, savage beasts.
Cornels, and savage berries of the wood. Dryden.

3. Uncivilized; untaught; unpolished; rude; as, savage life; savage
manners.
What nation, since the commencement of the Christian era, ever rose
from savage to civilized without Christianity E. D. Griffin.

4. Characterized by cruelty; barbarous; fierce; ferocious; inhuman;
brutal; as, a savage spirit.

Syn.
 -- Ferocious; wild; uncultivated; untamed; untaught; uncivilized;
unpolished; rude; brutish; brutal; heathenish; barbarous; cruel;
inhuman; fierce; pitiless; merciless; unmerciful; atrocious. See
Ferocious.

SAVAGE
Sav"age, n.

1. A human being in his native state of rudeness; one who is
untaught; uncivilized, or without cultivation of mind or manners.

2. A man of extreme, unfeeling, brutal cruelty; a barbarian.

SAVAGE
Sav"age (; 48), v. t.

Defn: To make savage. [R.]
Its bloodhounds, savaged by a cross of wolf. South

SAVAGELY
Sav"age*ly, adv.

Defn: In a savage manner.

SAVAGENESS
Sav"age*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being savage.
Wolves and bears, they say, Casting their savageness aside have done
Like offices of pity. Shak.

SAVAGERY
Sav"age*ry, n. Etym: [F. sauvagerie.]

1. The state of being savage; savageness; savagism.
A like work of primeval savagery. C. Kingsley.

2. An act of cruelty; barbarity.
The wildest savagery, the vilest stroke, That ever wall-eyed wrath or
staring rage Presented to the tears of soft remorse. Shak.

3. Wild growth, as of plants. Shak.

SAVAGISM
Sav"a*gism, n.

Defn: The state of being savage; the state of rude, uncivilized men,
or of men in their native wildness and rudeness.

SAVANILLA
Sav`a*nil"la, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The tarpum. [Local, U.S.]

SAVANNA
Sa*van"na, n. Etym: [Of American Indian origin; cf. Sp. sabana, F.
savane.]

Defn: A tract of level land covered with the vegetable growth usually
found in a damp soil and warm climate, -- as grass or reeds, -- but
destitute of trees. [Spelt also savannah.]
Savannahs are clear pieces land without woods. Dampier.
Savanna flower (Bot.), a West Indian name for several climbing
apocyneous plants of the genus Echites.
 -- Savanna sparrow (Zool.), an American sparrow (Ammodramus
sandwichensis or Passerculus savanna) of which several varieties are
found on grassy plains from Alaska to the Eastern United States.
 -- Savanna wattle (Bot.), a name of two West Indian trees of the
genus Citharexylum.

SAVANT
Sa`vant", n.; pl. Savants (F. . Etym: [F., fr. savoir to know, L.
sapere. See Sage, a.]

Defn: A man of learning; one versed in literature or science; a
person eminent for acquirements.

SAVE
Save, n. Etym: [See Sage the herb.]

Defn: The herb sage, or salvia. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SAVE
Save, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Saved; p. pr. & vb. n. Saving.] Etym: [OE.
saven, sauven, salven, OF. salver, sauver, F. sauver, L. salvare, fr.
salvus saved, safe. See Safe, a.]

1. To make safe; to procure the safety of; to preserve from injury,
destruction, or evil of any kind; to rescue from impending danger;
as, to save a house from the flames.
God save all this fair company. Chaucer.
He cried, saying, Lord, save me. Matt. xiv. 30.
Thou hast . . . quitted all to save A world from utter loss. Milton.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Specifically, to deliver from and its penalty; to rescue from a
state of condemnation and spiritual death, and bring into a state of
spiritual life.
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. 1 Tim. i. 15.

3. To keep from being spent or lost; to secure from waste or
expenditure; to lay up; to reserve.
Now save a nation, and now save a groat. Pope.

4. To rescue from something undesirable or hurtful; to prevent from
doing something; to spare.
I'll save you That labor, sir. All's now done. Shak.

5. To hinder from doing, suffering, or happening; to obviate the
necessity of; to prevent; to spare.
Will you not speak to save a lady's blush Dryden.

6. To hold possession or use of; to escape loss of.
Just saving the tide, and putting in a stock of merit. Swift.
To save appearance, to preserve a decent outside; to avoid exposure
of a discreditable state of things.

Syn.
 -- To preserve; rescue; deliver; protect; spare; reserve; prevent.

SAVE
Save, v. i.

Defn: To avoid unnecessary expense or expenditure; to prevent waste;
to be economical.
Brass ordnance saveth in the quantity of the material. Bacon.

SAVE
Save, prep. or conj. Etym: [F. sauf, properly adj., safe. See Safe,
a.]

Defn: Except; excepting; not including; leaving out; deducting;
reserving; saving.
Five times received I forty stripes save one. 2 Cor. xi. 24.

Syn.
 -- See Except.

SAVE
Save, conj.

Defn: Except; unless.

SAVEABLE
Save"a*ble, a.

Defn: See Savable.

SAVE-ALL
Save"-all`, n. Etym: [Save + all.]

Defn: Anything which saves fragments, or prevents waste or loss.
Specifically:
(a) A device in a candlestick to hold the ends of candles, so that
they be burned.
(b) (Naut.) A small sail sometimes set under the foot of another
sail, to catch the wind that would pass under it. Totten. (c) A
trough to prevent waste in a paper-making machine.

SAVELOY
Sav"e*loy, n. Etym: [F. cervelas, It. cervellata, fr. cervello brain,
L. cerebellum, dim. of cerebrum brain. See Cerebral.]

Defn: A kind of dried sausage. McElrath.

SAVELY
Save"ly, adv.

Defn: Safely. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SAVEMENT
Save"ment, n.

Defn: The act of saving. [Obs.]

SAVER
Sav"er, n.

Defn: One who saves.

SAVIN; SAVINE
Sav"in, Sav"ine, n. Etym: [OE. saveine, AS. safin?, savine, L. sabina
herba. Cf. Sabine.] [Written also sabine.] (Bot.)
(a) A coniferous shrub (Juniperus Sabina) of Western Asia,
occasionally found also in the northern parts of the United States
and in British America. It is a compact bush, with dark-colored
foliage, and produces small berries having a glaucous bloom. Its
bitter, acrid tops are sometimes used in medicine for gout,
amenorrhoea, etc.
(b) The North American red cedar (Juniperus Virginiana.)

SAVING
Sav"ing, a.

Defn: 1. Preserving; rescuing.
He is the saving strength of his anointed. Ps. xxviii. 8.

2. Avoiding unnecessary expense or waste; frugal; not lavish or
wasteful; economical; as, a saving cook.

3. Bringing back in returns or in receipts the sum expended;
incurring no loss, though not gainful; as, a saving bargain; the ship
has made a saving voyage.

4. Making reservation or exception; as, a saving clause.

Note: saving is often used with a noun to form a compound adjective;
as, labor-saving, life-saving, etc.

SAVING
Sav"ing, prep. or conj.; but properly a participle.

Defn: With the exception of; except; excepting; also, without
disrespect to. "Saving your reverence." Shak. "Saving your presence."
Burns.
None of us put off clothes, saving that every one put them off for
washing. Neh. iv. 23.
And in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he
that receiveth it. Rev. ii. 17.

SAVING
Sav"ing, n.

1. Something kept from being expended or lost; that which is saved or
laid up; as, the savings of years of economy.

2. Exception; reservation.
Contend not with those that are too strong for us, but still with a
saving to honesty. L'Estrange.
Savings bank, a bank in which savings or earnings are deposited and
put at interest.

SAVINGLY
Sav"ing*ly, adv.

1. In a saving manner; with frugality or parsimony.

2. So as to be finally saved from eternal death.
Savingly born of water and the Spirit. Waterland.

SAVINGNESS
Sav"ing*ness, n.

1. The quality of being saving; carefulness not to expend money
uselessly; frugality; parsimony. Mrs. H. H. Jackson.

2. Tendency to promote salvation. Johnson.

SAVIOR
Sav"ior, n. Etym: [OE. saveour, OF. salveor, F. sauveur, fr. L.
salvator to save. See Save, v.] [Written also saviour.]

1. One who saves, preserves, or delivers from destruction or danger.

2. Specifically: The (or our, your, etc.) Savior, he who brings
salvation to men; Jesus Christ, the Redeemer.

SAVIORESS
Sav"ior*ess, n.

Defn: A female savior. [Written also saviouress.] [R.] Bp. Hall.

SAVOR
Sa"vor, n. Etym: [OE. savour, savor, savur, OF. savor, savour, F.
saveur, fr. L. sapor, fr. sapere to taste, savor. See Sage, a., and
cf. Sapid, Insipid, Sapor.] [Written also savour.]

1. That property of a thing which affects the organs of taste or
smell; taste and odor; flavor; relish; scent; as, the savor of an
orange or a rose; an ill savor.
I smell sweet savors and I feel soft things. Shak.

2. Hence, specific flavor or quality; characteristic property;
distinctive temper, tinge, taint, and the like.
Why is not my life a continual joy, and the savor of heaven
perpetually upon my spirit Baxter.

3. Sense of smell; power to scent, or trace by scent. [R.] "Beyond my
savor." Herbert.

4. Pleasure; delight; attractiveness. [Obs.]
She shall no savor have therein but lite. Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Taste; flavor; relish; odor; scent; smell.

SAVOR
Sa"vor, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Savored; p. pr. & vb. n. Savoring.] Etym:
[Cf. OF. savorer, F. savourer. See Savor, n.] [Written also savour.]

1. To have a particular smell or taste; -- with of.

2. To partake of the quality or nature; to indicate the presence or
influence; to smack; -- with of.
This savors not much of distraction. Shak.
I have rejected everything that savors of party. Addison.

3. To use the sense of taste. [Obs.]
By sight, hearing, smelling, tasting or savoring, and feeling.
Chaucer.

SAVOR
Sa"vor, v. t.

1. To perceive by the smell or the taste; hence, to perceive; to
note. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

2. To have the flavor or quality of; to indicate the presence of.
[R.]
That cuts us off from hope, and savors only Rancor and pride,
impatience and despite. Milton.

3. To taste or smell with pleasure; to delight in; to relish; to
like; to favor. [R.] Shak.

SAVORILY
Sa"vor*i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a savory manner.

SAVORINESS
Sa"vor*i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being savory.

SAVORLESS
Sa"vor*less, a.

Defn: Having no savor; destitute of smell or of taste; insipid.

SAVORLY
Sa"vor*ly, a.

Defn: Savory. [Obs.]

SAVORLY
Sa"vor*ly, adv.

Defn: In a savory manner. [Obs.] Barrow.

SAVOROUS
Sa"vor*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. savoureux, OF. saveros, L. saporosus.
Cf. Saporous, and see Savor, n.]

Defn: Having a savor; savory. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

SAVORY
Sa"vor*y, a. Etym: [From Savor.]

Defn: Pleasing to the organs of taste or smell. [Written also
savoury.]
The chewing flocks Had ta'en their supper on the savory herb. Milton.

SAVORY; SAVOURY
Sa"vo*ry, n. Etym: [F. savoree; cf. It. santoreggia, satureja, L.
satureia,] (Bot.)

Defn: An aromatic labiate plant (Satireia hortensis), much used in
cooking; -- also called summer savory. [Written also savoury.]

SAVOY
Sa*voy", n. Etym: [F. chou de Savoie cabbage of Savoy.] (Bot.)

Defn: A variety of the common cabbage (Brassica oleracea major),
having curled leaves, -- much cultivated for winter use.

SAVOYARD
Sav`oy*ard", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Savoy.

SAVVY; SAVVEY
Sav"vy, Sav"vey, v. t. & i. [Written also savey.] [Sp. saber to know,
sabe usted do you know]

Defn: To understand; to comprehend; know. [Slang, U. S.]

SAVVY; SAVVEY
Sav"vy, Sav"vey, n.

Defn: Comprehension; knowledge of affairs; mental grasp. [Slang, U.
S.]

SAW
Saw,

Defn: imp. of See.

SAW
Saw, n. Etym: [OE. sawe, AS. sagu; akin to secgan to say. See Say, v.
t. and cf. Saga.]

1. Something said; speech; discourse. [Obs.] "To hearken all his
sawe." Chaucer.

2. A saying; a proverb; a maxim.
His champions are the prophets and apostles, His weapons holy saws of
sacred writ. Shak.

3. Dictate; command; decree. [Obs.]
[Love] rules the creatures by his powerful saw. Spenser.

SAW
Saw, n. Etym: [OE. sawe, AS. sage; akin to D. zaag, G. sage, OHG.
sega, saga, Dan. sav, sw. sag, Icel. sog, L. secare to cut, securis
ax, secula sickle. Cf. Scythe, Sickle, Section, Sedge.]

Defn: An instrument for cutting or dividing substances, as wood,
iron, etc., consisting of a thin blade, or plate, of steel, with a
series of sharp teeth on the edge, which remove successive portions
of the material by cutting and tearing.

Note: Saw is frequently used adjectively, or as the first part of a
compound. Band saw, Crosscut saw, etc. See under Band, Crosscut, etc.
 -- Circular saw, a disk of steel with saw teeth upon its periphery,
and revolved on an arbor.
 -- Saw bench, a bench or table with a flat top for for sawing,
especially with a circular saw which projects above the table.
 -- Saw file, a three-cornered file, such as is used for sharpening
saw teeth.
 -- Saw frame, the frame or sash in a sawmill, in which the saw, or
gang of saws, is held.
 -- Saw gate, a saw frame.
 -- Saw gin, the form of cotton gin invented by Eli Whitney, in which
the cotton fibers are drawn, by the teeth, of a set of revolving
circular saws, through a wire grating which is too fine for the seeds
to pass.
 -- Saw grass (Bot.), any one of certain cyperaceous plants having
the edges of the leaves set with minute sharp teeth, especially the
Cladium effusum of the Southern United States. Cf. Razor grass, under
Razor.
 -- Saw log, a log of suitable size for sawing into lumber.
 -- Saw mandrel, a mandrel on which a circular saw is fastened for
running.
 -- Saw pit, a pit over which timbor is sawed by two men, one
standing below the timber and the other above. Mortimer.
 -- Saw sharpener (Zool.), the great titmouse; -- so named from its
harsh call note. [Prov. Eng.] -- Saw whetter (Zool.), the marsh
titmouse (Parus palustris); -- so named from its call note. [Prov.
Eng.] -- Scroll saw, a ribbon of steel with saw teeth upon one edge,
stretched in a frame and adapted for sawing curved outlines; also, a
machine in which such a saw is worked by foot or power.

SAW
Saw, v. t. [imp. Sawed; p. p. Sawed or Sawn (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sawing.]

1. To cut with a saw; to separate with a saw; as, to saw timber or
marble.

2. To form by cutting with a saw; as, to saw boards or planks, that
is, to saw logs or timber into boards or planks; to saw shingles; to
saw out a panel.

3. Also used figuratively; as, to saw the air.

SAW
Saw, v. i.

1. To use a saw; to practice sawing; as, a man saws well.

2. To cut, as a saw; as, the saw or mill saws fast.

3. To be cut with a saw; as, the timber saws smoothly.

SAWARRA NUT
Sa*war"ra nut`.

Defn: See Souari nut.

SAWBELLY
Saw"bel`ly, n.

Defn: The alewife. [Local, U.S.]

SAWBILL
Saw"bill`, n.

Defn: The merganser. [Prov. Eng.]

SAWBONES
Saw"bones`, n.

Defn: A nickname for a surgeon.

SAWBUCK
Saw"buck`, n.

Defn: A sawhorse.

SAWCEFLEM
SAw"ce*flem, a.

Defn: See Sauseflem. [Obs.]

SAWDER
Saw"der, n.

Defn: A corrupt spelling and pronunciation of solder. Soft sawder,
seductive praise; flattery; blarney. [Slang]

SAWDUST
Saw"dust`, n.

Defn: Dust or small fragments of wood 9or of stone, etc.) made by the
cutting of a saw.

SAWER
Saw"er`, n.

Defn: One who saws; a sawyer.

SAWFISH
Saw"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of elasmobranch fishes of the genus
Pristis. They have a sharklike form, but are more nearly allied to
the rays. The flattened and much elongated snout has a row of stout
toothlike structures inserted along each edge, forming a sawlike
organ with which it mutilates or kills its prey.

SAWFLY
Saw"fly`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of hymenopterous insects belonging
to the family Tenthredinid?. The female usually has an ovipositor
containing a pair of sawlike organs with which she makes incisions in
the leaves or stems of plants in which to lay the eggs. The larv?
resemble those of Lepidoptera.

SAWHORSE
Saw"horse`, n.

Defn: A kind of rack, shaped like a double St. Andrew's cross, on
which sticks of wood are laid for sawing by hand; -- called also
buck, and sawbuck.

SAWMILL
Saw"mill`, n.

Defn: A mill for sawing, especially one for sawing timber or lumber.

SAWNEB
Saw"neb`, n.

Defn: A merganser. [Prov. Eng.]

SAW PALMETTO
Saw" pal*met"to.

Defn: See under Palmetto.

SAW-SET
Saw"-set`, n.

Defn: An instrument used to set or turn the teeth of a saw a little
sidewise, that they may make a kerf somewhat wider than the thickness
of the blade, to prevent friction; -- called also saw-wrest.

SAWTOOTH
Saw"tooth`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An arctic seal (Lobodon carcinophaga), having the molars
serrated; -- called also crabeating seal.

SAW-TOOTHED
Saw"-toothed", a.

Defn: Having a tooth or teeth like those of a saw; serrate.

SAWTRY
Saw"try, n.

Defn: A psaltery. [Obs.] Dryden.

SAW-WHET
saw"-whet`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A small North American owl (Nyctale Acadica), destitute of ear
tufts and having feathered toes; -- called also Acadian owl.

SAW-WORT
Saw"-wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the composite genus Serratula; -- so named from
the serrated leaves of most of the species.

SAW-WREST
Saw"-wrest`, n.

Defn: See Saw-set.

SAWYER
Saw"yer, n. Etym: [Saw + -yer, as in lawyer. Cf. Sawer.]

1. One whose occupation is to saw timber into planks or boards, or to
saw wood for fuel; a sawer.

2. A tree which has fallen into a stream so that its branches project
above the surface, rising and falling with a rocking or swaying
motion in the current. [U.S.]

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The bowfin. [Local, U.S.]

SAX
Sax, n. Etym: [AS. seax a knife.]

Defn: A kind of chopping instrument for trimming the edges of roofing
slates.

SAXATILE
Sax"a*tile, a. Etym: [L. saxatilis, fr. saxum a rock: cf. F.
saxalite.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to rocks; living among rocks; as, a saxatile
plant.

SAXHORN
Sax"horn`, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A name given to a numerous family of brass wind instruments
with valves, invented by Antoine Joseph Sax (known as Adolphe Sax),
of Belgium and Paris, and much used in military bands and in
orchestras.

SAXICAVA
Sax`i*ca"va, n.; pl. E. saxicavas, L. Saxicav?. Etym: [NL. See
Saxicavous.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of marine bivalve shells of the genus Saxicava.
Some of the species are noted for their power of boring holes in
limestone and similar rocks.

SAXICAVID
Sax`i*ca"vid, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the saxicavas.
 -- n.

Defn: A saxicava.

SAXICAVOUS
Sax`i*ca"vous, a. Etym: [L. saxum rock + cavare to make hollow, fr.
cavus hollow: cf. F. saxicave.] (Zool.)

Defn: Boring, or hollowing out, rocks; -- said of certain mollusks
which live in holes which they burrow in rocks. See Illust. of
Lithodomus.

SAXICOLINE
Sax*ic"o*line, a. Etym: [L. saxum a rock + colere to inhabit.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Stone-inhabiting; pertaining to, or having the characteristics
of, the stonechats.

SAXICOLOUS
Sax*ic"o*lous, a. Etym: [See Saxicoline.] (Bot.)

Defn: Growing on rocks.

SAXIFRAGA
Sax*if"ra*ga, n. Etym: [L., saxifrage. See Saxifrage.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of exogenous polypetalous plants, embracing about one
hundred and eighty species. See Saxifrage.

SAXIFRAGACEOUS
Sax`i*fra*ga"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Saxifragace?) of
which saxifrage is the type. The order includes also the alum root,
the hydrangeas, the mock orange, currants and gooseberries, and many
other plants.

SAXIFRAGANT
Sax*if"ra*gant, a. Etym: [See Saxifrage.]

Defn: Breaking or destroying stones; saxifragous. [R.] -- n.

Defn: That which breaks or destroys stones. [R.]

SAXIFRAGE
Sax"i*frage (; 48), n. Etym: [L. saxifraga, from saxifragus stone-
breaking; saxum rock + frangere to break: cf. F. saxifrage. See
Fracture, and cf. Sassafras, Saxon.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Saxifraga, mostly perennial herbs
growing in crevices of rocks in mountainous regions. Burnet
saxifrage, a European umbelliferous plant (Pimpinella Saxifraga).
 -- Golden saxifrage, a low half-sacculent herb (Chrysosplenium
oppositifolium) growing in rivulets in Europe; also, C. Americanum,
common in the United States. See also under Golden.
 -- Meadow saxifrage, or Pepper saxifrage. See under Meadow.

SAXIFRAGOUS
Sax*if"ra*gous, a. Etym: [L. saxifragus: cf. F. saxifrage. See
Saxifrage.]

Defn: Dissolving stone, especially dissolving stone in the bladder.

SAXON
Sax"on, n. Etym: [l. Saxo, pl. Saxones, from the Saxon national name;
cf. AS. pl. Seaxe, Seaxan, fr. seax a knife, a short sword, a dagger
(akin to OHG. sahs, and perhaps to L. saxum rock, stone, knives being
originally made of stone); and cf. G. Sachse, pl. Sachsen. Cf.
Saxifrage.]

1.
(a) One of a nation or people who formerly dwelt in the nothern part
of Germany, and who, with other Teutonic tribes, invaded and
conquered England in the fifth and sixth centuries. (b) Also used in
the sense of Anglo-Saxon. (c) A native or inhabitant of modern
Saxony.

2. The language of the Saxons; Anglo-Saxon. old Saxon, the saxon of
the continent of Europe in the old form of the language, as shown
particularly in the "Heliand", a metrical narration of the gospel
history preserved in manuscripts of the 9th century.

SAXON
Sax"on, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Saxons, their country, or their
language.
(b) Anglo-Saxon.
(c) Of or pertaining to Saxony or its inhabitants. Saxon blue
(Dyeing), a deep blue liquid used in dyeing, and obtained by
dissolving indigo in concentrated sulphuric acid. Brande & C.
 -- Saxon green (Dyeing), a green color produced by dyeing with
yellow upon a ground of Saxon blue.

SAXONIC
Sax*on"ic, a.

Defn: relating to the saxons or Anglo-Saxons.

SAXONISM
Sax"on*ism, n.

Defn: An idiom of the Saxon or Anglo-Saxon language. T. Warton.

SAXONIST
Sax"on*ist, n.

Defn: One versed in the Saxon language.

SAXONITE
Sax"on*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Mountain soap, under Mountain.

SAXONY
Sax"o*ny, n. [So named after the kingdom of Saxony, reputed to
produce fine wool.]

1. A kind of glossy woolen cloth formerly much used.

2.  Saxony yarn, or flannel made of it or similar yarn.

SAXONY YARN
Saxony yarn.

Defn: A fine grade of woolen yarn twisted somewhat harder and
smoother than zephyr yarn.

SAXOPHONE
Sax"o*phone, n. Etym: [A.A.J. Sax, the inventor (see Saxhorn) + Gr.
(Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument of brass, containing a reed, and partaking of
the qualities both of a brass instrument and of a clarinet.

SAX-TUBA
Sax"-tu`ba, n. Etym: [See Saxhorn, and Tube.] (Mus.)

Defn: A powerful instrument of brass, curved somewhat like the Roman
buccina, or tuba.

SAY
Say, obs. imp. of See.

Defn: Saw. Chaucer.

SAY
Say, n. Etym: [Aphetic form of assay.]

1. Trial by sample; assay; sample; specimen; smack. [Obs.]
if those principal works of God . . . be but certain tastes and saus,
as if were, of that final benefit. Hooker.
Thy tongue some say of breeding breathes. Shak.

2. Tried quality; temper; proof. [Obs.]
he found a sword of better say. Spenser.

3. Essay; trial; attempt. [Obs.] To give a say at, to attempt. B.
Jonson.

SAY
Say, v. t.

Defn: To try; to assay. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SAY
Say, n. Etym: [OE. saie, F. saie, fr. L. saga, equiv. to sagum,
sagus, a coarse woolen mantle; cf. Gr. Sagum.]

1. A kind of silk or satin. [Obs.]
Thou say, thou serge, nay, thou buckram lord! Shak.

2. A delicate kind of serge, or woolen cloth. [Obs.]
His garment neither was of silk nor say. Spenser.

SAY
Say, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Said, contracted from sayed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Saying.] Etym: [OE. seggen, seyen, siggen, sayen, sayn, AS. secgan;
akin to OS. seggian, D. zeggen, LG. seggen, OHG. sag, G. sagen, Icel.
segja, Sw. saga, Dan. sige, Lith. sakyti; cf. OL. insece teil,
relate, Gr. Saga, Saw a saying.]

1. To utter or express in words; to tell; to speak; to declare; as,
he said many wise things.
Arise, and say how thou camest here. Shak.

2. To repeat; to rehearse; to recite; to pronounce; as, to say a
lesson.
Of my instruction hast thou nothing bated In what thou hadst to say
Shak.
After which shall be said or sung the following hymn. Bk. of Com.
Prayer.

3. To announce as a decision or opinion; to state positively; to
assert; hence, to form an opinion upon; to be sure about; to be
determined in mind as to.
But what it is, hard is to say. Milton.

4. To mention or suggest as an estimate, hypothesis, or
approximation; hence, to suppose; -- in the imperative, followed
sometimes by the subjunctive; as, he had, say fifty thousand dollars;
the fox had run, say ten miles.
Say, for nonpayment that the debt should double, Is twenty hundred
kisses such a trouble Shak.
It is said, or They say, it is commonly reported; it is rumored;
people assert or maintain.
 -- That is to say, that is; in other words; otherwise.

SAY
Say, v. i.

Defn: To speak; to express an opinion; to make answer; to reply.
You have said; but whether wisely or no, let the forest judge. Shak.
To this argument we shall soon have said; for what concerns it us to
hear a husband divulge his household privacies Milton.

SAY
Say, n. Etym: [From Say, v. t.; cf. Saw a saying.]

Defn: A speech; something said; an expression of opinion; a current
story; a maxim or proverb. [Archaic or Colloq.]
He no sooner said out his say, but up rises a cunning snap.
L'Estrange.
That strange palmer's boding say, That fell so ominous and drear Full
on the object of his fear. Sir W. Scott.

SAYER
Say"er, n.

Defn: One who says; an utterer.
Mr. Curran was something much better than a sayer of smart sayings.
Jeffrey.

SAYETTE
Sa*yette", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Say a kind of serge.]

Defn: A mixed stuff, called also sagathy. See Sagathy.

SAYING
Say"ing, n.

Defn: That which is said; a declaration; a statement, especially a
proverbial one; an aphorism; a proverb.
Many are the sayings of the wise, In ancient and in modern books
enrolled. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Declaration; speech; adage; maxim; aphorism; apothegm; saw;
proverb; byword.

SAYMAN
Say"man, n. Etym: [Say sample + man.]

Defn: One who assays. [Obs.]

SAYMASTER
Say"mas`ter, n.

Defn: A master of assay; one who tries or proves. [Obs.] "Great
saymaster of state." D. Jonson.

SAYND
Saynd,

Defn: obs. p. p. of Senge, to singe. Chaucer.

'SBLOOD
'Sblood, interj.

Defn: An abbreviation of God's blood; -- used as an oath. [Obs.]
Shak.

SCAB
Scab, n. Etym: [OE. scab, scabbe, shabbe; cf. AS. sc?b, sceabb,
scebb, Dan. & Sw. skab, and also L. scabies, tr. scabere to scratch,
akin to E. shave. See Shave, and cf. Shab, Shabby.]

1. An incrustation over a sore, wound, vesicle, or pustule, formed by
the drying up of the discharge from the diseased part.

2. The itch in man; also, the scurvy. [Colloq. or Obs.]

3. The mange, esp. when it appears on sheep. Chaucer.

4. A disease of potatoes producing pits in their surface, caused by a
minute fungus (Tiburcinia Scabies).

5. (Founding)

Defn: A slight iregular protuberance which defaces the surface of a
casting, caused by the breaking away of a part of the mold.

6. A mean, dirty, paltry fellow. [Low] Shak.

7. A nickname for a workman who engages for lower wages than are
fixed by the trades unions; also, for one who takes the place of a
workman on a strike. [Cant]

SCAB
Scab, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scabbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scabbing.]

Defn: To become covered with a scab; as, the wound scabbed over.

SCABBARD
Scab"bard, n. Etym: [OE. scaubert, scauberk, OF. escaubers,
escauberz, pl., scabbards, probably of German or Scan. origin; cf.
Icel. skalpr scabbard, and G. bergen to conceal. Cf. Hauberk.]

Defn: The case in which the blade of a sword, dagger, etc., is kept;
a sheath.
Nor in thy scabbard sheathe that famous blade. Fairfax.
Scabbard fish (Zool.), a long, compressed, silver-colored t?nioid
fish (Lepidopus caudatus, or argyreus), found on the European coasts,
and more abundantly about New Zealand, where it is called frostfish
and considered an excellent food fish.

SCABBARD
Scab"bard, v. t.

Defn: To put in a scabbard.

SCABBARD PLANE
Scab"bard plane`.

Defn: See Scaleboard plane, under Scaleboard.

SCABBED
Scab"bed ( or ), a.

1. Abounding with scabs; diseased with scabs.

2. Fig.: Mean; paltry; vile; worthless. Bacon.

SCABBEDNESS
Scab"bed*ness, n.

Defn: Scabbiness.

SCABBILY
Scab"bi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scabby manner.

SCABBINESS
Scab"bi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being scabby.

SCABBLE
Scab"ble, v. t.

Defn: See Scapple.

SCABBY
Scab"by, a. [Compar. Scabbier (; superl. Scabbiest.]

1. Affected with scabs; full of scabs.

2. Diseased with the scab, or mange; mangy. Swift.

SCABIES
Sca"bi*es, n. (Med.)

Defn: The itch.

SCABIOUS
Sca"bi*ous, a. Etym: [L. scabious, from scabies the scab: cf. F.
scabieux.]

Defn: Consisting of scabs; rough; itchy; leprous; as, scabious
eruptions. Arbuthnot.

SCABIOUS
Sca"bi*ous, n. Etym: [Cf. F. scabieuse. See Scabious, a.] (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Scabiosa, several of the species of
which are common in Europe. They resemble the Composit?, and have
similar heads of flowers, but the anthers are not connected. Sweet
scabious (a) Mourning bride. (b) A daisylike plant (Erigeron annuus)
having a stout branching stem.

SCABLING
Scab"ling, n. Etym: [See Scapple.]

Defn: A fragment or chip of stone. [Written also scabline.]

SCABREDITY
Sca*bred"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. scabredo, fr. scaber rough.]

Defn: Roughness; ruggedness. [Obs.] Burton.

SCABROUS
Sca"brous, a. Etym: [L. scabrosus, fr. scaber rough: cf. F.
scabreux.]

1. Rough to the touch, like a file; having small raised dots, scales,
or points; scabby; scurfy; scaly. Arbuthnot.

2. Fig.: Harsh; unmusical. [R.]
His verse is scabrous and hobbling. Dryden.

SCABROUSNESS
Sca"brous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being scabrous.

SCABWORT
Scab"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Elecampane.

SCAD
Scad, n. Etym: [Gael. & ir. sgadan a herring.] (Zool.)
(a) A small carangoid fish (Trachurus saurus) abundant on the
European coast, and less common on the American. The name is applied
also to several allied species.
(b) The goggler; -- called also big-eyed scad. See Goggler.
(c) The friar skate. [Scot.]
(d) The cigar fish, or round robin.

SCAFFOLD
Scaf"fold, n. Etym: [OF. eschafault, eschafaut, escafaut, escadafaut,
F. echafaud; probably oiginally the same word as E. & F. catafalque,
It. catafafalco. See Catafalque.]

1. A temporary structure of timber, boards, etc., for various
purposes, as for supporting workmen and materials in building, for
exhibiting a spectacle upon, for holding the spectators at a show,
etc.
Pardon, gentles all, The flat, unraised spirits that have dared On
this unworthy scaffold to bring forth So great an object. Shak.

2. Specifically, a stage or elevated platform for the execution of a
criminal; as, to die on the scaffold.
That a scaffold of execution should grow a scaffold of coronation.
Sir P. Sidney.

3. (Metal.)

Defn: An accumulation of adherent, partly fused material forming a
shelf, or dome-shaped obstruction, above the tuyeres in a blast
furnace.

SCAFFOLD
Scaf"fold, v. t.

Defn: To furnish or uphold with a scaffold.

SCAFFOLDAGE
Scaf"fold*age, n.

Defn: A scaffold. [R.] Shak.

SCAFFOLDING
Scaf"fold*ing, n.

1. A scaffold; a supporting framework; as, the scaffolding of the
body. Pope.

2. Materials for building scaffolds.

SCAGLIA
Scagl"ia, n. Etym: [It. scaglia a scale, a shell, a ship of marble.]

Defn: A reddish variety of limestone.

SCAGLIOLA
Scagl*io"la, n. Etym: [It. scagliuola, dim. of scaglia. See Scaglia.]

Defn: An imitation of any veined and ornamental stone, as marble,
formed by a substratum of finely ground gypsum mixed with glue, the
surface of which, while soft, is variegated with splinters of marble,
spar, granite, etc., and subsequently colored and polished.

SCALA
Sca"la, n.; pl. Scal?. Etym: [L., a ladder.]

1. (Surg.)

Defn: A machine formerly employed for reducing dislocations of the
humerus.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A term applied to any one of the three canals of the cochlea.

SCALABLE
Scal"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being scaled.

SCALADE; SCALADO
Sca*lade", Sca*la"do, n. (Mil.)

Defn: See Escalade. Fairfax.

SCALAR
Sca"lar, n. (Math.)

Defn: In the quaternion analysis, a quantity that has magnitude, but
not direction; -- distinguished from a vector, which has both
magnitude and direction.

SCALARIA
Sca*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [L., flight of steps.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of marine gastropods of the genus
Scalaria, or family Scalarid?, having elongated spiral turreted
shells, with rounded whorls, usually crossed by ribs or varices. The
color is generally white or pale. Called also ladder shell, and
wentletrap. See Ptenoglossa, and Wentletrap.

SCALARIFORM
Sca*lar"i*form, a. Etym: [L. scalare, scalaria, staircase, ladder + -
form: cf. F. scalariforme.]

1. Resembling a ladder in form or appearance; having transverse bars
or markings like the rounds of a ladder; as, the scalariform cells
and scalariform pits in some plants.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to a scalaria.

SCALARY
Sca"la*ry, a. Etym: [L. scalaris, fr. scale, pl. scala, staircase,
ladder.]

Defn: Resembling a ladder; formed with steps. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SCALAWAG
Scal"a*wag, n.

Defn: A scamp; a scapegrace. [Spelt also scallawag.] [Slang, U.S.]
Bartlett.

SCALD
Scald, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scaled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scalding.] Etym:
[OF. eschalder, eschauder, escauder, F. echauder, fr. L. excaldare;
ex + caldus, calidus, warm, hot. See Ex, and Calderon.]

1. To burn with hot liquid or steam; to pain or injure by contact
with, or imersion in, any hot fluid; as, to scald the hand.
Mine own tears Do scald like molten lead. Shak.
Here the blue flames of scalding brimstone fall. Cowley.

2. To expose to a boiling or violent heat over a fire, or in hot
water or other liquor; as, to scald milk or meat.

SCALD
Scald, n.

Defn: A burn, or injury to the skin or flesh, by some hot liquid, or
by steam.

SCALD
Scald, a. Etym: [For scalled. See Scall.]

1. Affected with the scab; scaby. Shak.

2. Scurry; paltry; as, scald rhymers. [Obs.] Shak. Scald crow
(Zool.), the hooded crow. [Ireland] -- Scald head (Med.), a name
popularly given to several diseases of the scalp characterized by
pustules (the dried discharge of which forms scales) and by falling
out of the hair.

SCALD
Scald, n.

Defn: Scurf on the head. See Scall. Spenser.

SCALD
Scald ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [Icel. skald.]

Defn: One of the ancient Scandinavian poets and historiographers; a
reciter and singer of heroic poems, etc., among the Norsemen; more
rarely, a bard of any of the ancient Teutonic tribes. [Written also
skald.]
A war song such as was of yore chanted on the field of battle by the
scalds of the yet heathen Saxons. Sir W. Scott.

SCALDER
Scald"er, n.

Defn: A Scandinavian poet; a scald.

SCALDFISH
Scald"fish`, n. Etym: [Scald, a. + fish.] (Zool.)

Defn: A European flounder (Arnoglosus laterna, or Psetta arnoglossa);
-- called also megrin, and smooth sole.

SCALDIC
Scald"ic ( or ), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the scalds of the Norsemen; as, scaldic
poetry.

SCALE
Scale, n. Etym: [AS. scale; perhaps influenced by the kindred Icel.
skal balance, dish, akin also to D. schaal a scale, bowl, shell, G.
schale, OHG. scala, Dan. skaal drinking cup, bowl, dish, and perh. to
E. scale of a fish. Cf. Scale of a fish, Skull the brain case.]

1. The dish of a balance; hence, the balance itself; an instrument or
machine for weighing; as, to turn the scale; -- chiefly used in the
plural when applied to the whole instrument or apparatus for
weighing. Also used figuratively.
Long time in even scale The battle hung. Milton.
The scales are turned; her kindness weighs no more Now than my vows.
Waller.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: The sign or constellation Libra. Platform scale. See under
Platform. tip the scales, influence an action so as to change an
outcome from one likely result to another.

SCALE
Scale, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scaled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scaling.]

Defn: To weigh or measure according to a scale; to measure; also, to
grade or vary according to a scale or system.
Scaling his present bearing with his past. Shak.
To scale, or scale down, a debt, wages, etc., to reduce a debt, etc.,
according to a fixed ratio or scale. [U.S.]

SCALE
Scale, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. scealu, scalu, a shell, parings; akin to D.
schaal, G. schale, OHG. scala, Dan. & Sw. skal a shell, Dan. ski?l a
fish scale, Goth. skalja tile, and E. shale, shell, and perhaps also
to scale of a balance; butperhaps rather fr. OF. escale, escaile, F.
ecaille scale of a fish, and ecale shell of beans, pease, egs, nuts,
of German origin, and akin to Goth. skalja, G. schale. See Shale.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the small, thin, membranous, bony or horny pieces which
form the covering of many fishes and reptiles, and some mammals,
belonging to the dermal part of the skeleton, or dermoskeleton. See
Cycloid, Ctenoid, and Ganoid.
Fish that, with their fins and shining scales, Glide under the green
wave. Milton.

2. Hence, any layer or leaf of metal or other material, resembling in
size and thinness the scale of a fish; as, a scale of iron, of bone,
etc.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the small scalelike structures covering parts of some
invertebrates, as those on the wings of Lepidoptera and on the body
of Thysanura; the elytra of certain annelids. See Lepidoptera.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: A scale insect. (See below.)

5. (Bot.)

Defn: A small appendage like a rudimentary leaf, resembling the
scales of a fish in form, and often in arrangement; as, the scale of
a bud, of a pine cone, and the like. The name is also given to the
chaff on the stems of ferns.

6. The thin metallic side plate of the handle of a pocketknife. See
Illust. of Pocketknife.

7. An incrustation deposit on the inside of a vessel in which water
is heated, as a steam boiler.

8. (Metal.)

Defn: The thin oxide which forms on the surface of iron forgings. It
consists esentially of the magnetic oxide, Fe3O4. Also, a similar
coating upon other metals. Covering scale (Zool.), a hydrophyllium.
 -- Ganoid scale (Zool.) See under Ganoid.
 -- Scale armor (Mil.), armor made of small metallic scales
overlapping, and fastened upon leather or cloth.
 -- Scale beetle (Zool.), the tiger beetle.
 -- Scale carp (Zool.), a carp having normal scales.
 -- Scale insect (Zool.), any one of numerous species of small
hemipterous insects belonging to the family Coccid?, in which the
females, when adult, become more or less scalelike in form. They are
found upon the leaves and twigs of various trees and shrubs, and
often do great damage to fruit trees. See Orange scale,under Orange.
 -- Scale moss (Bot.), any leafy-stemmed moss of the order Hepatic?;
-- so called from the small imbricated scalelike leaves of most of
the species. See Hepatica, 2, and Jungermannia.

SCALE
Scale, v. t.

1. To strip or clear of scale or scales; as, to scale a fish; to
scale the inside of a boiler.

2. To take off in thin layers or scales, as tartar from the teeth; to
pare off, as a surface. "If all the mountaines were scaled, and the
earth made even." T. Burnet.

3. To scatter; to spread. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

4. (Gun.)

Defn: To clean, as the inside of a cannon, by the explosion of a
small quantity of powder. Totten.

SCALE
Scale, v. i.

1. To separate and come off in thin layers or lamin?; as, some
sandstone scales by exposure.
Those that cast their shell are the lobster and crab; the old skins
are found, but the old shells never; so it is likely that they scale
off. Bacon.

2. To separate; to scatter. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

SCALE
Scale, n. Etym: [L. scalae, pl., scala staircase, ladder; akin to
scandere to climb. See Scan; cf. Escalade.]

1. A ladder; a series of steps; a means of ascending. [Obs.]

2. Hence, anything graduated, especially when employed as a measure
or rule, or marked by lines at regular intervals. Specifically:
(a) A mathematical instrument, consisting of a slip of wood, ivory,
or metal, with one or more sets of spaces graduated and numbered on
its surface, for measuring or laying off distances, etc., as in
drawing, plotting, and the like. See Gunter's scale.
(b) A series of spaces marked by lines, and representing
proportionately larger distances; as, a scale of miles, yards, feet,
etc., for a map or plan.
(c) A basis for a numeral system; as, the decimal scale; the binary
scale, etc.
(d) (Mus.) The graduated series of all the tones, ascending or
descending, from the keynote to its octave; -- called also the gamut.
It may be repeated through any number of octaves. See Chromatic
scale, Diatonic scale, Major scale, and Minor scale, under Chromatic,
Diatonic, Major, and Minor.

3. Gradation; succession of ascending and descending steps and
degrees; progressive series; scheme of comparative rank or order; as,
a scale of being.
There is a certain scale of duties . . . which for want of studying
in right order, all the world is in confusion. Milton.

4. Relative dimensions, without difference in proportion of parts;
size or degree of the parts or components in any complex thing,
compared with other like things; especially, the relative proportion
of the linear dimensions of the parts of a drawing, map, model, etc.,
to the dimensions of the corresponding parts of the object that is
represented; as, a map on a scale of an inch to a mile. Scale of
chords, a graduated scale on which are given the lengths of the
chords of arcs from 0? to 90? in a circle of given radius, -- used in
measuring given angles and in plotting angles of given numbers of
degrees.

SCALE
Scale, v. t. Etym: [Cf. It. scalare, fr. L. scale, scala. See Scale a
ladder.]

Defn: To climb by a ladder, or as if by a ladder; to ascend by steps
or by climbing; to clamber up; as, to scale the wall of a fort.
Oft have I scaled the craggy oak. Spenser.

SCALE
Scale, v. i.

Defn: To lead up by steps; to ascend. [Obs.]
Satan from hence, now on the lower stair, That scaled by steps of
gold to heaven-gate, Looks down with wonder. Milton.

SCALEBACK
Scale"back`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of marine annelids of the family
Polynoid?, and allies, which have two rows of scales, or elytra,
along the back. See Illust. under Ch?topoda.

SCALEBEAM
Scale"beam`, n.

1. The lever or beam of a balance; the lever of a platform scale, to
which the poise for weighing is applied.

2. A weighing apparatus with a sliding weight, resembling a
steelyard.

SCALEBOARD
Scale"board` (; commonly , n. Etym: [3d scale + board.]

1. (Print.)

Defn: A thin slip of wood used to justify a page. [Obs.] Crabb.

2. A thin veneer of leaf of wood used for covering the surface of
articles of firniture, and the like. Scaleboard plane, a plane for
cutting from a board a wide shaving forming a scaleboard.

SCALED
Scaled, a.

1. Covered with scales, or scalelike structures; -- said of a fish, a
reptile, a moth, etc.

2. Without scales, or with the scales removed; as, scaled herring.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Having feathers which in form, color, or arrangement somewhat
resemble scales; as, the scaled dove. Scaled dove (Zool.), any
American dove of the genus Scardafella. Its colored feather tips
resemble scales.

SCALELESS
Scale"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of scales.

SCALENE
Sca*lene", a. Etym: [L. scalenus, Gr. scalene.]

1. (Geom.)
(a) Having the sides and angles unequal; -- said of a triangle.
(b) Having the axis inclined to the base, as a cone.

2. (Anat.)
(a) Designating several triangular muscles called scalene muscles.
(b) Of or pertaining to the scalene muscles. Scalene muscles (Anat.),
a group of muscles, usually three on each side in man, extending from
the cervical vertebr? to the first and second ribs.

SCALENE
Sca*lene", n. (Geom.)

Defn: A triangle having its sides and angles unequal.

SCALENOHEDRAL
Sca*le`no*he"dral, a. (Crystallog.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a scalenohedron.

SCALENOHEDRON
Sca*le`no*he"dron, n. Etym: [Gr. (Crystallog.)

Defn: A pyramidal form under the rhombohedral system, inclosed by
twelve faces, each a scalene triangle.

SCALER
Scal"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, scales; specifically, a dentist's
instrument for removing tartar from the teeth.

SCALE-WINGED
Scale"-winged`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the wings covered with small scalelike structures, as
the lepidoptera; scaly-winged.

SCALINESS
Scal"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being scaly; roughness.

SCALING
Scal"ing, a.

1. Adapted for removing scales, as from a fish; as, a scaling knife;
adapted for removing scale, as from the interior of a steam boiler;
as, a scaling hammer, bar, etc.

2. Serving as an aid in clambering; as, a scaling ladder, used in
assaulting a fortified place.

SCALIOLA
Scal*io"la, n.

Defn: Same as Scagliola.

SCALL
Scall, n. Etym: [Icel. skalli a bald head. Cf. Scald, a.]

Defn: A scurf or scabby disease, especially of the scalp.
It is a dry scall, even a leprosy upon the head. Lev. xiii. 30.

SCALL
Scall, a.

Defn: Scabby; scurfy. [Obs.] Shak.

SCALLED
Scalled, a.

Defn: Scabby; scurfy; scall. [Obs.] "With scalled brows black."
Chaucer. Scalled head. (Med.) See Scald head, under Scald, a.

SCALLION
Scal"lion, n. Etym: [OF. escalone, escaloingne, L. caepa Ascalonius
of Ascalon, fr. Ascalo Ascalon, a town in Palestine. Cf. Shallot.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of small onion (Allium Ascalonicum), native of
Palestine; the eschalot, or shallot.

2. Any onion which does not "bottom out," but remains with a thick
stem like a leek. Amer. Cyc.

SCALLOP
Scal"lop, n. Etym: [OF. escalope a shell, probably of German or Dutch
origin, and akin to E. scale of a fish; cf. D. schelp shell. See
Scale of a fish, and cf. Escalop.] [Written also scollop.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of marine bivalve mollusks of the
genus Pecten and allied genera of the family Pectinid?. The shell is
usually radially ribbed, and the edge is therefore often undulated in
a characteristic manner. The large adductor muscle of some the
species is much used as food. One species (Vola Jacob?us) occurs on
the coast of Palestine, and its shell was formerly worn by pilgrims
as a mark that they had been to the Holy Land. Called also fan shell.
See Pecten, 2.

Note: The common edible scallop of the Eastern United States is
Pecten irradians; the large sea scallop, also used as food, is P.
Clontonius, or tenuicostastus.

2. One of series of segments of circles joined at their extremities,
forming a border like the edge or surface of a scallop shell.

3. One of the shells of a scallop; also, a dish resembling a scallop
shell.

SCALLOP
Scal"lop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scalloped; p. pr. & vb. n. Scalloping.]

1. To mark or cut the edge or border of into segments of circles,
like the edge or surface of a scallop shell. See Scallop, n., 2.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: To bake in scallop shells or dishes; to prepare with crumbs of
bread or cracker, and bake. See Scalloped oysters, below.

SCALLOPED
Scal"loped, a.

1. Furnished with a scallop; made or done with or in a scallop.

2. Having the edge or border cut or marked with segments of circles.
See Scallop, n., 2.

3. (Cookery)

Defn: Baked in a scallop; cooked with crumbs. Scalloped oysters
(Cookery), opened oysters baked in a deep dish with alternate layers
of bread or cracker crumbs, seasoned with pepper, nutmeg, and butter.
This was at first done in scallop shells.

SCALLOPER
Scal"lop*er, n.

Defn: One who fishes for scallops.

SCALLOPING
Scal"lop*ing, n.

Defn: Fishing for scallops.

SCALP
Scalp, n. Etym: [Cf. Scallop.]

Defn: A bed of oysters or mussels. [Scot.]

SCALP
Scalp, n. Etym: [Perhaps akin to D. schelp shell. Cf. Scallop.]

1. That part of the integument of the head which is usually covered
with hair.
By the bare scalp of Robin Hodd's fat friar, This fellow were a king
for our wild faction! Shak.

2. A part of the skin of the head, with the hair attached, cut or
torn off from an enemy by the Indian warriors of North America, as a
token of victory.

3. Fig.: The top; the summit. Macaulay. Scalp lock, a long tuft of
hair left on the crown of the head by the warriors of some tribes of
American Indians.

SCALP
Scalp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scalped; p. pr. & vb. n. Scalping.]

1. To deprive of the scalp; to cut or tear the scalp from the head
of.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: To remove the skin of.
We must scalp the whole lid [of the eye]. J. S. Wells.

3. (Milling.)

Defn: To brush the hairs of fuzz from, as wheat grains, in the
process of high milling. Knight.

SCALP
Scalp, v. i.

Defn: To make a small, quick profit by slight fluctuations of the
market; -- said of brokers who operate in this way on their own
account. [Cant]

SCALPEL
Scal"pel, n. Etym: [L scalpellum, dim. of scalprum a knife, akin to
scalpere to cut, carve, scrape: cf. F. scalpel.] (Surg.)

Defn: A small knife with a thin, keen blade, -- used by surgeons, and
in dissecting.

SCALPER
Scalper, n.

1. One who, or that which, scalps.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: Same as Scalping iron, under Scalping.

3. A broker who, dealing on his own account, tries to get a small and
quick profit from slight fluctuations of the market. [Cant]

4. A person who buys and sells the unused parts of railroad tickets.
[Cant]

SCALPING
Scalp"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Scalp. Scalping iron (Surg.), an instrument used
in scraping foul and carious bones; a raspatory.
 -- Scalping knife, a knife used by north American Indians in
scalping.

SCALPRIFORM
Scal"pri*form, a. Etym: [L. scalprum chisel, knife + -form.] (Anat.)

Defn: Shaped like a chisel; as, the scalpriform incisors of rodents.

SCALY
Scal"y, a.

1. Covered or abounding with scales; as, a scaly fish. "Scaly
crocodile." Milton.

2. Resembling scales, lamin?, or layers.

3. Mean; low; as, a scaly fellow. [Low]

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Composed of scales lying over each other; as, a scaly bulb;
covered with scales; as, a scaly stem. Scaly ant-eater (Zool.), the
pangolin.

SCALY-WINGED
Scal"y-winged`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Scale-winged.

SCAMBLE
Scam"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scambled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scambling.]
Etym: [Cf. OD. schampelen to deviate, to slip, schampen to go away,
escape, slip, and E. scamper, shamble.]

1. To move awkwardly; to be shuffling, irregular, or unsteady; to
sprawl; to shamble. "Some scambling shifts." Dr. H. More. "A fine old
hall, but a scambling house." Evelyn.

2. To move about pushing and jostling; to be rude and turbulent; to
scramble. "The scambling and unquiet time did push it out of . . .
question." Shak.

SCAMBLE
Scam"ble, v. t.

Defn: To mangle. [Obs.] Mortimer.

SCAMBLER
Scam"bler, n.

Defn: 1. One who scambles.

2. A bold intruder upon the hospitality of others; a mealtime
visitor. [Scot.]

SCAMBLINGLY
Scam"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scambling manner; with turbulence and noise; with bold
intrusiveness.

SCAMELL; SCAMMEL
Scam"ell, or; Scam"mel, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The female bar-tailed godwit. [Prov. Eng.]

Note: Whether this is the scamel mentioned by Shakespeare ["Tempest,"
ii. 2] is not known.

SCAMILLUS
Sca*mil"lus, n.; pl. Scamilli. Etym: [L., originally, a little bench,
dim. of scamnum bench, stool.] (Arch.)

Defn: A sort of second plinth or block, below the bases of Ionic and
Corinthian columns, generally without moldings, and of smaller size
horizontally than the pedestal.

SCAMMONIATE
Scam*mo"ni*ate, a.

Defn: Made from scammony; as, a scammoniate aperient.

SCAMMONY
Scam"mo*ny, n. Etym: [F. scammonee, L. scammonia, scammonea, Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of bindweed or Convolvulus (C. Scammonia).

2. An inspissated sap obtained from the rot of the Convolvulus
Scammonia, of a blackish gray color, a nauseous smell like that of
old cheese, and a somewhat acrid taste. It is used in medicine as a
cathartic.

SCAMP
Scamp, n. Etym: [OF. escamper to run away, to make one's escape.
originally, one who runs away, a fugitive, a vagabond. See Scamper.]

Defn: A rascal; a swindler; a rogue. De Quincey.

SCAMP
Scamp, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Scamp,n., or Scant, a., and Skimp.]

Defn: To perform in a hasty, neglectful, or imperfect manner; to do
superficially. [Colloq.]
A workman is said to scamp his work when he does it in a superficial,
dishonest manner. Wedgwood.
Much of the scamping and dawdling complained of is that of men in
establishments of good repute. T. Hughes.

SCAMPAVIA
Scam`pa*vi"a, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A long, low war galley used by the Neapolitans and Sicilians in
the early part of the nineteenth century.

SCAMPER
Scam"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scampered; p. pr. & vb. n. Scampering.]
Etym: [OF. escamper to escape, to save one's self; L. ex from +
campus the field (sc. of battle). See Camp, and cf. Decamp, Scamp,
n., Shamble, v. t.]

Defn: To run with speed; to run or move in a quick, hurried manner;
to hasten away. Macaulay.
The lady, however, . . . could not help scampering about the room
after a mouse. S. Sharpe.

SCAMPER
Scam"per, n.

Defn: A scampering; a hasty flight.

SCAMPERER
Scam"per*er, n.

Defn: One who scampers. Tyndell.

SCAMPISH
Scamp"ish, a.

Defn: Of or like a scamp; knavish; as, scampish conduct.

SCAN
Scan, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scanned; p. pr. & vb. n. Scanning.] Etym:
[L. scandere, scansum, to climb, to scan, akin to Skr. skand to
spring, leap: cf. F. scander. Cf. Ascend, Descend, Scale a ladder.]

1. To mount by steps; to go through with step by step. [Obs.]
Nor stayed till she the highest stage had scand. Spenser.

2. Specifically (Pros.), to go through with, as a verse, marking and
distinguishing the feet of which it is composed; to show, in reading,
the metrical structure of; to recite metrically.

3. To go over and examine point by point; to examine with care; to
look closely at or into; to scrutinize.
The actions of men in high stations are all conspicuous, and liable
to be scanned and sifted. Atterbury.

SCANDAL
Scan"dal, n. Etym: [F. scandale, fr. L. scandalum, Gr. scandle, OF.
escandle. See Slander.]

1. Offense caused or experienced; reproach or reprobation called
forth by what is regarded as wrong, criminal, heinous, or flagrant:
opprobrium or disgrace.
O, what a scandal is it to our crown, That two such noble peers as ye
should jar! Shak.
[I] have brought scandal To Israel, diffidence of God, and doubt In
feeble hearts. Milton.

2. Reproachful aspersion; opprobrious censure; defamatory talk,
uttered heedlessly or maliciously.
You must not put another scandal on him. Shak.
My known virtue is from scandal free. Dryden.

3. (Equity)

Defn: Anything alleged in pleading which is impertinent, and is
reproachful to any person, or which derogates from the dignity of the
court, or is contrary to good manners. Daniell.

Syn.
 -- Defamation; detraction; slander; calumny; opprobrium; reproach;
shame; disgrace.

SCANDAL
Scan"dal, v. t.

1. To treat opprobriously; to defame; to asperse; to traduce; to
slander. [R.]
I do faws on men and hug them hard And after scandal them. Shak.

2. To scandalize; to offend. [Obs.] Bp. Story.

Syn.
 -- To defame; traduce; reproach; slander; calumniate; asperse;
vilify; disgarce.

SCANDALIZE
Scan"dal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scandalized (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Scandalizing (.] Etym: [F. scandaliser, L. scandalizare, from Gr.
skandali`zein.]

1. To offend the feelings of the conscience of (a person) by some
action which is considered immoral or criminal; to bring shame,
disgrace, or reproach upon.
I demand who they are whom we scandalize by using harmless things.
Hooker.
the congregation looked on in silence, the better class scandalized,
and the lower orders, some laughing, others backing the soldier or
the minister, as their fancy dictated. Sir W. Scott.

2. To reproach; to libel; to defame; to slander.
To tell his tale might be interpreted into scandalizing the order.
Sir W. Scott.

SCANDALOUS
Scan"dal*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. scandaleux.]

1. Giving offense to the conscience or moral feelings; exciting
reprobation; calling out condemnation.
Nothing scandalous or offensive unto any. Hooker.

2. Disgraceful to reputation; bringing shame or infamy; opprobrious;
as, a scandalous crime or vice.

3. Defamatory; libelous; as, a scandalous story.

SCANDALOUSLY
Scan"dal*ous*ly, adv.

1. In a manner to give offense; shamefully.
His discourse at table was scandalously unbecoming the digmity of his
station. Swift.

2. With a disposition to impute immorality or wrong.
Shun their fault, who, scandalously nice, Will needs mistake an
author into vice. Pope.

SCANDALOUSNESS
Scan"dal*ous*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being scandalous.

SCANDALUM MAGNATUM
Scan"da*lum mag*na"tum`. Etym: [L., scandal of magnates.] (Law)

Defn: A defamatory speech or writing published to the injury of a
person of dignity; -- usually abbreviated scan. mag.

SCANDENT
Scan"dent, a. Etym: [L. scandens, -entis, p.pr. of scandere to
climb.]

Defn: Climbing.

Note: Scandent plants may climb either by twining, as the hop, or by
twisted leafstalks, as the clematis, or by tendrils, as the passion
flower, or by rootlets, as the ivy.

SCANDIA
Scan"di*a, n. Etym: [NL. See Scandium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A chemical earth, the oxide of scandium.

SCANDIC
Scan"dic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to scandium; derived from, or containing,
scandium.

SCANDINAVIAN
Scan`di*na"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Scandinavia, that is, Sweden, Norway, and
Denmark.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Scandinavia.

SCANDIUM
Scan"di*um, n. Etym: [NL. So called because found in Scandinavian
minerals] (Chem.)

Defn: A rare metallic element of the boron group, whose existence was
predicated under the provisional name ekaboron by means of the
periodic law, and subsequently discovered by spectrum analysis in
certain rare Scandinavian minerals (euxenite and gadolinite). It has
not yet been isolated. Symbol Sc. Atomic weight 44

SCANSION
Scan"sion, n. Etym: [L. scansio, fr. scandere, scansum, to climb. See
Scan.] (Pros.)

Defn: The act of scanning; distinguishing the metrical feet of a
verse by emphasis, pauses, or otherwise.

SCANSORES
Scan*so"res, n.; pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. scandere, scansum, to climb.]
(Zool.)

Defn: An artifical group of birds formerly regarded as an order. They
are distributed among several orders by modern ornithologists.

Note: The toes are in pairs, two before and two behind, by which they
are enabled to cling to, and climb upon, trees, as the woodpeckers,
parrots, cuckoos, and trogons. See Illust. under Aves.

SCANSORIAL
Scan*so"ri*al, a. (Zool.)
(a) Capable of climbing; as, the woodpecker is a scansorial bird;
adapted for climbing; as, the scansorial foot.
(b) Of or pertaining to the Scansores. See Illust. under Aves.
Scansorial tail (Zool.), a tail in which the feathers are stiff and
sharp at the tip, as in the woodpeckers.

SCANT
Scant, a. [Compar. Scanter; superl. Scantest.] Etym: [Icel. skamt,
neuter of skamr, skammr, short; cf. skamta to dole out, to portion.]

1. Not full, large, or plentiful; scarcely sufficient; less than is
wanted for the purpose; scanty; meager; not enough; as, a scant
allowance of provisions or water; a scant pattern of cloth for a
garment.
His sermon was scant, in all, a quarter of an hour. Ridley.

2. Sparing; parsimonious; chary.
Be somewhat scanter of your maiden presence. Shak.

Syn.
 -- See under Scanty.

SCANT
Scant, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scanted; p. pr. & vb. n. Scanting.]

1. To limit; to straiten; to treat illiberally; to stint; as, to
scant one in provisions; to scant ourselves in the use of
necessaries.
Where man hath a great living laid together and where he is scanted.
Bacon.
I am scanted in the pleasure of dwelling on your actions. Dryden.

2. To cut short; to make small, narrow, or scanty; to curtail. "Scant
not my cups." Shak.

SCANT
Scant, v. i.

Defn: To fail, of become less; to scantle; as, the wind scants.

SCANT
Scant, adv.

Defn: In a scant manner; with difficulty; scarcely; hardly. [Obs.]
Bacon.
So weak that he was scant able to go down the stairs. Fuller.

SCANT
Scant, n.

Defn: Scantness; scarcity. [R.] T. Carew.

SCANTILY
Scant"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scanty manner; not fully; not plentifully; sparingly;
parsimoniously.
His mind was very scantily stored with materials. Macaulay.

SCANTINESS
Scant"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality condition of being scanty.

SCANTLE
Scan"tle, v. i. Etym: [Dim. of scant, v.]

Defn: To be deficient; to fail. [Obs.] Drayton.

SCANTLE
Scan"tle, v. t. Etym: [OF. escanteler, eschanteler, to break into
contles; pref. es- (L. ex) + cantel, chantel, corner, side, piece.
Confused with E. scant. See Cantle.]

Defn: To scant; to be niggard of; to divide into small pieces; to cut
short or down. [Obs.]
All their pay Must your discretion scantle; keep it back. J. Webster.

SCANTLET
Scant"let, n. Etym: [OF. eschantelet corner.]

Defn: A small pattern; a small quantity. [Obs.] Sir M. Hale.

SCANTLING
Scant"ling, a. Etym: [See Scant, a.]

Defn: Not plentiful; small; scanty. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

SCANTLING
Scant"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. eschantillon, F. echantillon, a sample,
pattern, example. In some senses confused with scant insufficient.
See Scantle, v. t.]

1. A fragment; a bit; a little piece. Specifically:
(a) A piece or quantity cut for a special purpose; a sample. [Obs.]
Such as exceed not this scantling; -- to be solace to the sovereign
and harmless to the people. Bacon.
A pretty scantling of his knowledge may taken by his deferring to be
baptized so many years. Milton.

(b) A small quantity; a little bit; not much. [Obs.]
Reducing them to narrow scantlings. Jer. Taylor.

2. A piece of timber sawed or cut of a small size, as for studs,
rails, etc.

3. The dimensions of a piece of timber with regard to its breadth and
thickness; hence, the measure or dimensions of anything.

4. A rough draught; a rude sketch or outline.

5. A frame for casks to lie upon; a trestle. Knight.

SCANTLY
Scant"ly, adv.

1. In a scant manner; not fully or sufficiently; narrowly;
penuriously. Dryden.

2. Scarcely; hardly; barely.
Scantly they durst their feeble eyes dispread Upon that town.
Fairfax.
We hold a tourney here to-morrow morn, And there is scantly time for
half the work. Tennyson.

SCANTNESS
Scant"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being scant; narrowness; smallness;
insufficiency; scantiness. "Scantness of outward things." Barrow.

SCANTY
Scant"y, a. [Compar. Scantier; superl. Scantiest.] Etym: [From Scant,
a.]

1. Wanting amplitude or extent; narrow; small; not abundant.
his dominions were very narrow and scanty. Locke.
Now scantier limits the proud arch confine. Pope.

2. Somewhat less than is needed; insufficient; scant; as, a scanty
supply of words; a scanty supply of bread.

3. Sparing; niggardly; parsimonius.
In illustrating a point of difficulty, be not too scanty of words. I.
Watts.

Syn.
 -- Scant; narrow; small; poor; deficient; meager; scarce; chary;
sparing; parsimonious; penurious; niggardly; grudging.

SCAPE
Scape, n. Etym: [L. scapus shaft, stem, stalk; cf. Gr. scape. Cf.
Scepter.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A peduncle rising from the ground or from a subterranean stem,
as in the stemless violets, the bloodroot, and the like.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The long basal joint of the antenn? of an insect.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The shaft of a column.
(b) The apophyge of a shaft.

SCAPE
Scape, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Scaped; p. pr. & vb. n. Scaping.]
Etym: [Aphetic form of escape.]

Defn: To escape. [Obs. or Poetic.] Milton.
Out of this prison help that we may scape. Chaucer.

SCAPE
Scape, n.

1. An escape. [Obs.]
I spake of most disastrous chances, . . . Of hairbreadth scapes in
the imminent, deadly breach. Shak.

2. Means of escape; evasion. [Obs.] Donne.

3. A freak; a slip; a fault; an escapade. [Obs.]
Not pardoning so much as the scapes of error and ignorance. Milton.

4. Loose act of vice or lewdness. [Obs.] Shak.

SCAPEGALLOWS
Scape"gal`lows, n.

Defn: One who has narrowly escaped the gallows for his crimes.
[Colloq.] Dickens.

SCAPEGOAT
Scape"goat`, n. Etym: [Scape (for escape) + goat.]

1. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: A goat upon whose head were symbolically placed the sins of the
people, after which he was suffered to escape into the wilderness.
Lev. xvi. 10.

2. Hence, a person or thing that is made to bear blame for others.
Tennyson.

SCAPEGRACE
Scape"grace`, n.

Defn: A graceless, unprincipled person; one who is wild and reckless.
Beaconsfield.

SCAPELESS
Scape"less, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Destitute of a scape.

SCAPEMENT
Scape"ment, n. Etym: [See Scape, v., Escapement.]

Defn: Same as Escapement, 3.

SCAPE-WHEEL
Scape"-wheel`, n. (Horol.)

Defn: the wheel in an escapement (as of a clock or a watch) into the
teeth of which the pallets play.

SCAPHANDER
Sca*phan"der, n. Etym: [Gr. scaphandre.]

Defn: The case, or impermeable apparel, in which a diver can work
while under water.

SCAPHISM
Scaph"ism, n. Etym: [Gr. ska`fh a trough.]

Defn: An ancient mode of punishing criminals among the Persians, by
confining the victim in a trough, with his head and limbs smeared
with honey or the like, and exposed to the sun and to insects until
he died.

SCAPHITE
Scaph"ite, n. Etym: [L. scapha a boat, fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: Any fossil cephalopod shell of the genus Scaphites, belonging
to the Ammonite family and having a chambered boat-shaped shell.
Scaphites are found in the Cretaceous formation.

SCAPHOCEPHALIC
Scaph`o*ce*phal"ic, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or affected with, scaphocephaly.

SCAPHOCEPHALY
Scaph`o*ceph"a*ly, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A deformed condition of the skull, in which the vault is
narrow, clongated, and more or less boat-shaped.

SCAPHOCERITE
Scaph`o*ce"rite, n. Etym: [Gr. cerite.] (Zool.)

Defn: A flattened plate or scale attached to the second joint of the
antenn? of many Crustacea.

SCAPHOGNATHITE
Sca*phog"na*thite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A thin leafike appendage (the exopodite) of the second maxilla
of decapod crustaceans. It serves as a pumping organ to draw the
water through the gill cavity.

SCAPHOID
Scaph"oid, a. Etym: [Gr. -oid: cf. F. scaphoide.] (Anat.)

Defn: Resembling a boat in form; boat-shaped.
 -- n.

Defn: The scaphoid bone. Scaphoid bone (a) One of the carpal bones,
which articulates with the radius; the radiale. (b) One of the tarsal
bones; the navicular bone. See under Navicular.

SCAPHOLUNAR
Scaph`o*lu"nar, a. Etym: [Scaphoid + lunar.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the scaphoid and lunar bones of the carpus.
 -- n.

Defn: The scapholunar bone. Scapholunar bone, a bone formed by the
coalescence of the scaphoid and lunar in the carpus of carnivora.

SCAPHOPODA
Sca*phop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -poda.] (Zool.)

Defn: A class of marine cephalate Mollusca having a tubular shell
open at both ends, a pointed or spadelike foot for burrowing, and
many long, slender, prehensile oral tentacles. It includes Dentalium,
or the tooth shells, and other similar shells. Called also
Prosopocephala, and Solenoconcha.

SCAPIFORM
Sca"pi*form, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling scape, or flower stm.

SCAPOLITE
Scap"o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. scapus a stem, sta-lite: cf. F.
scapolite.] (Mon.)

Defn: A grayish white mineral occuring in tetragonal crystals and in
cleavable masses. It is esentially a silicate of aluminia and soda.

Note: The scapolite group includes scapolite proper, or wernerite,
also meionite, dipyre, etc.

SCAPPLE
Scap"ple, v. t. Etym: [Cf. OF. eskaper, eschapler, to cut, hew, LL.
scapellare. Cf. Scabble.]
(a) To work roughly, or shape without finishing, as stone before
leaving the quarry.
(b) To dress in any way short of fine tooling or rubbing, as stone.
Gwilt.

SCAPULA
Scap"u*la, n.; pl. L. Scapul?, E. Scapuolas. Etym: [L.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The principal bone of the shoulder girdle in mammals; the
shoulder blade.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the plates from which the arms of a crinoid arise.

SCAPULAR
Scap"u*lar, a. Etym: [Cf. F. scapulaire. Cf. Scapulary.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the scapula or the shoulder Scapular arch
(Anat.), the pectoral arch. See under pectoral.
 -- Scapular region, or Scapular tract (Zool.), a definite
longitudinal area over the shoulder and along each side of the back
of a bird, from which the scapular feathers arise.

SCAPULAR
Scap"u*lar, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of a special group of feathers which arise from each of the
scapular regions and lie along the sides of the back.

SCAPULAR; SCAPULARY
Scap"u*lar, Scap"u*la*ry, n. Etym: [F. scapulaire, LL. scapularium,
scapulare, fr. L.scapula shoulder blade.]

1. (R.C.Ch.)
(a) A loose sleeveless vestment falling in front and behind, worn by
certain religious orders and devout persons.
(b) The name given to two pieces of cloth worn under the ordinary
garb and over the shoulders as an act of devotion. Addis & Arnold.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A bandage passing over the shoulder to support it, or to retain
another bandage in place.

SCAPULARY
Scap"u*la*ry, a.

Defn: Same as Scapular, a.

SCAPULARY
Scap"u*la*ry, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as 2d and 3d Scapular.

SCAPULET
Scap"u*let, n. Etym: [Dim. of scapula.] (Zool.)

Defn: A secondary mouth fold developed at the base of each of the
armlike lobes of the manubrium of many rhizostome medus?. See
Illustration in Appendix.

SCAPULO-
Scap"u*lo- (.

Defn: A combining form used in anatomy to indicate connection with,
or relation to, the scapula or the shoulder; as, the scapulo-
clavicular articulation, the articulation between the scapula and
clavicle.

SCAPUS
Sca"pus, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: See 1st Scape.

SCAR
Scar, n. Etym: [OF. escare, F. eschare an eschar, a dry slough (cf.
It. & Sp. escara), L. eschara, fr. Gr. Eschar.]

1. A mark in the skin or flesh of an animal, made by a wound or
ulcer, and remaining after the wound or ulcer is healed; a cicatrix;
a mark left by a previous injury; a blemish; a disfigurement.
This earth had the beauty of youth, . . . and not a wrinkle, scar, or
fracture on all its body. T. Burnet.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A mark left upon a stem or branch by the fall of a leaf,
leaflet, or frond, or upon a seed by the separation of its support.
See Illust. under Axillary.

SCAR
Scar, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scarred; p. pr. & vb. n. Scarring.]

Defn: To mark with a scar or scars.
Yet I'll not shed her blood; Nor scar that whiter skin of hers than
snow. Shak.
His cheeks were deeply scarred. Macaulay.

SCAR
Scar, v. i.

Defn: To form a scar.

SCAR
Scar, n. Etym: [Scot. scar, scaur, Icel. sker a skerry, an isolated
rock in the sea; akin to Dan. ski?r, Sw. skar. Cf. Skerry.]

Defn: An isolated or protruding rock; a steep, rocky eminence; a bare
place on the side of a mountain or steep bank of earth. [Written also
scaur.]
O sweet and far, from cliff and scar, The horns of Elfland faintly
blowing. Tennyson.

SCAR
Scar, n. Etym: [L. scarus, a kind of fish, Gr. ska`ros.] (Zool.)

Defn: A marine food fish, the scarus, or parrot fish.

SCARAB; SCARABEE
Scar"ab, Scar"a*bee, n. Etym: [L. scarabeus; cf. F. scarabee.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of lamellicorn beetles of the genus
Scarab?us, or family Scarab?id?, especially the sacred, or Egyptian,
species (Scarab?us sacer, and S. Egyptiorum).

SCARABAEUS
Scar`a*b?"us, n. Etym: [L.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scarab.

SCARABOID
Scar"a*boid, a. Etym: [Scarab + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family Scarab?id?, an extensive group
which includes the Egyptian scarab, the tumbleding, and many similar
lamellicorn beetles.

SCARABOID
Scar"a*boid, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A scaraboid beetle.

SCARAMOUCH
Scar"a*mouch`, n. Etym: [F. scaramouche, It.scaramuccio, scaramuccia,
originally the name of a celebrated Italian comedian; cf. It.
scaramuccia, scaramuccio, F. escarmouche, skirmish. Cf. Skirmish.]

Defn: A personage in the old Italian comedy (derived from Spain)
characterized by great boastfulness and poltroonery; hence, a person
of like characteristics; a buffoon.

SCARCE
Scarce, a. [Compar. Scarcer; superl. Scarcest.] Etym: [OE. scars, OF.
escars, eschars, LL. scarpsus, for L. excerptus, p. p. of excerpere
to pick out, and hence to contract, to shorten; ex (see Ex-) +
carpere. See Carpet, and cf. Excerp.]

1. Not plentiful or abundant; in small quantity in proportion to the
demand; not easily to be procured; rare; uncommon.
You tell him silver is scarcer now in England, and therefore risen
one fifth in value. Locke.
The scarcest of all is a Pescennius Niger on a medallion well
preserved. Addison.

2. Scantily supplied (with); deficient (in); -- with of. [Obs.] "A
region scarce of prey." Milton.

3. Sparing; frugal; parsimonious; stingy. [Obs.] "Too scarce ne too
sparing." Chaucer. To make one's self scarce, to decamp; to depart.
[Slang]

Syn.
 -- Rare; infrequent; deficient. See Rare.

SCARCE; SCARCELY
Scarce, Scarce"ly, adv.

1. With difficulty; hardly; scantly; barely; but just.
With a scarce well-lighted flame. Milton.
The eldest scarcely five year was of age. Chaucer.
Slowly she sails, and scarcely stems the tides. Dryden.
He had scarcely finished, when the laborer arrived who had been sent
for my ransom. W. Irwing.

2. Frugally; penuriously. [Obs.] haucer.

SCARCEMENT
Scarce"ment, n. (Arch. & Engin.)

Defn: An offset where a wall or bank of earth, etc., retreats,
leaving a shelf or footing.

SCARCENESS; SCARCITY
Scarce"ness, Scar"ci*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or condition of being scarce; smallness of quantity
in proportion to the wants or demands; deficiency; lack of plenty;
short supply; penury; as, a scarcity of grain; a great scarcity of
beauties. Chaucer.
A scarcity of snow would raise a mutiny at Naples. Addison.
Praise . . . owes its value to its scarcity. Rambler.
The value of an advantage is enhanced by its scarceness. Collier.

Syn.
 -- Deficiency; lack; want; penury; dearth; rareness; rarity;
infrequency.

SCARD
Scard, n.

Defn: A shard or fragment. [Obs.]

SCARE
Scare, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scared; p. pr. & vb. n. Scaring.] Etym:
[OE. skerren, skeren, Icel. skirra to bar, prevent, skirrask to shun
, shrink from; or fr. OE. skerre, adj., scared, Icel. skjarr; both
perhaps akin to E. sheer to turn.]

Defn: To frighten; to strike with sudden fear; to alarm.
The noise of thy crossbow Will scare the herd, and so my shoot is
lost. Shak.
To scare away, to drive away by frightening.
 -- To scare up, to find by search, as if by beating for game.
[Slang]

Syn.
 -- To alarm; frighten; startle; affright; terrify.

SCARE
Scare, n.

Defn: Fright; esp., sudden fright produced by a trifling cause, or
originating in mistake. [Colloq.]

SCARECROW
Scare"crow`, n.

1. Anything set up to frighten crows or other birds from cornfields;
hence, anything terifying without danger.
A scarecrow set to frighten fools away. Dryden.

2. A person clad in rags and tatters.
No eye hath seen such scarecrows. I'll not march with them through
Coventry, that's flat. Shak.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The black tern. [Prov. Eng.]

SCAREFIRE
Scare"fire`, n.

1. An alarm of fire. [Obs.]

2. A fire causing alarm. [Obs.] Fuller.

SCARF
Scarf, n. Etym: [Icel. skarfr.]

Defn: A cormorant. [Scot.]

SCARF
Scarf, n.; pl. Scarfs, rarely Scarves. Etym: [Cf. OF. escharpe a
piligrim's scrip, or wallet (handing about the neck.), F. echarpe
sash, scarf; probably from OHG. scharpe pocket; also (from the
French) Dan. ski?rf; Sw. skarp, Prov. G. scharfe, LG. scherf, G.
scharpe; and also AS. scearf a fragment; possibly akin to E. scrip a
wallet. Cf. Scarp a scarf.]

Defn: An article of dress of a light and decorative character, worn
loosely over the shoulders or about the neck or the waist; a light
shawl or handkerchief for the neck; also, a cravat; a neckcloth.
Put on your hood and scarf. Swift.
With care about the banners, scarves, and staves. R. Browning.

SCARF
Scarf, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scarfed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scarfing.]

1. To throw on loosely; to put on like a scarf. "My sea-gown scarfed
about me." Shak.

2. To dress with a scarf, or as with a scarf; to cover with a loose
wrapping. Shak.

SCARF
Scarf, v. t. Etym: [Sw. skarfva to eke out, to join together, skarf a
seam, joint; cf. Dan. skarre to joint, to unite timber, Icel. skara
to clinich the planks of a boat, G. scharben to chop, to cut small.]
(a) To form a scarf on the end or edge of, as for a joint in timber,
metal rods, etc.
(b) To unite, as two pieces of timber or metal, by a scarf joint.

SCARF
Scarf, n.
(a) In a piece which is to be united to another by a scarf joint, the
part of the end or edge that is tapered off, rabbeted, or notched so
as to be thinner than the rest of the piece.
(b) A scarf joint. Scarf joint (a) A joint made by overlapping and
bolting or locking together the ends of two pieces of timber that are
halved, notched, or cut away so that they will fit each other and
form a lengthened beam of the same size at the junction as elsewhere.
(b) A joint formed by welding, riveting, or brazing together the
overlapping scarfed ends, or edges, of metal rods, sheets, etc.
 -- Scarf weld. See under Weld.

SCARFSKIN
Scarf"skin`, n. (Anat.)

Defn: See Epidermis.

SCARIFICATION
Scar`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. scarificatio: cf. F. scarification.]

Defn: The act of scarifying.

SCARIFICATOR
Scar"i*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. scarificateur.] (Surg.)

Defn: An instrument, principally used in cupping, containing several
lancets moved simultaneously by a spring, for making slight
incisions.

SCARIFIER
Scar"i*fi`er, n.

1. One who scarifies.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: The instrument used for scarifying.

3. (Agric.)

Defn: An implement for stripping and loosening the soil, without
bringing up a fresh surface.
You have your scarifiers to make the ground clean. Southey.

SCARIFY
Scar"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scarified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Scarifying.] Etym: [F. scarifier, L. scarificare, scarifare, fr. Gr.

1. To scratch or cut the skin of; esp. (Med.), to make small
incisions in, by means of a lancet or scarificator, so as to draw
blood from the smaller vessels without opening a large vein.

2. (Agric.)

Defn: To stir the surface soil of, as a field.

SCARIOSE; SCARIOUS
Sca"ri*ose, Sca"ri*ous, a. Etym: [F. scarieux, NL. scariosus. Cf.
Scary.] (Bot.)

Defn: Thin, dry, membranous, and not green. Gray.

SCARLATINA
Scar`la*ti"na, n. Etym: [NL.: cf. F. scarlatine. See Scarlet.] (Med.)

Defn: Scarlet fever.
 -- Scar`la*ti"nal, a.
 -- Scar*lat"i*nous (# or #), a.

SCARLESS
Scar"less, a.

Defn: Free from scar. Drummond.

SCARLET
Scar"let, n. Etym: [OE. scarlat, scarlet, OF. escarlate, F. ecarlate
(cf. Pr. escarlat, escarlata, Sp. & Pg. escarlata, It. scarlatto, LL.
scarlatum), from Per. sakirlat.]

Defn: A deep bright red tinged with orange or yellow, -- of many
tints and shades; a vivid or bright red color.

2. Cloth of a scarlet color.
All her household are clothed with scarlet. Prov. xxxi. 21.

SCARLET
Scar"let, a.

Defn: Of the color called scarlet; as, a scarlet cloth or thread.
Scarlet admiral (Zool.), the red admiral. See under Red.
 -- Scarlet bean (Bot.), a kind of bean (Phaseolus multiflorus)
having scarlet flowers; scarlet runner.
 -- Scarlet fever (Med.), a contagious febrile disease characterized
by inflammation of the fauces and a scarlet rash, appearing usually
on the second day, and ending in desquamation about the sixth or
seventh day.
 -- Scarlet fish (Zool.), the telescope fish; -- so called from its
red color. See under Telescope.
 -- Scarlet ibis (Zool.) See under Ibis.
 -- Scarlet maple (Bot.), the red maple. See Maple.
 -- Scarlet mite (Zool.), any one of numerous species of bright red
carnivorous mites found among grass and moss, especially Thombidium
holosericeum and allied species. The young are parasitic upon spiders
and insects.
 -- Scarlet oak (Bot.), a species of oak (Quercus coccinea) of the
United States; -- so called from the scarlet color of its leaves in
autumn.
 -- Scarlet runner (Bot.), the scarlet bean.
 -- Scarlet tanager. (Zool.) See under Tanager.

SCARLET
Scar"let, v. t.

Defn: To dye or tinge with scarlet. [R.]
The ashy paleness of my cheek Is scarleted in ruddy flakes of wrath.
Ford.

SCARMAGE; SCARMOGE
Scar"mage, Scar"moge, n.

Defn: A slight contest; a skirmish. See Skirmish. [Obs.]
Such cruel game my scarmoges disarms. Spenser.

SCARN
Scarn, n. Etym: [Icel. skarn; akin to AS. scearn. Cf. Shearn.]

Defn: Dung. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray. Scarn bee (Zool.), a dung
beetle.

SCAROID
Sca"roid, a. Etym: [Scarus + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Scarid?, a family of marine fishes
including the parrot fishes.

SCARP
Scarp, n. Etym: [OF. escharpe. See 2d Scarf.] (Her.)

Defn: A band in the same position as the bend sinister, but only half
as broad as the latter.

SCARP
Scarp, n. Etym: [Aphetic form of Escarp.]

1. (Fort.)

Defn: The slope of the ditch nearest the parapet; the escarp.

2. A steep descent or declivity.

SCARP
Scarp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scarped; p. pr. & vb. n. Scarping.]

Defn: To cut down perpendicularly, or nearly so; as, to scarp the
face of a ditch or a rock.
From scarped cliff and quarried stone. Tennyson.
Sweep ruins from the scarped mountain. Emerson.

SCARRING
Scar"ring, n.

Defn: A scar; a mark.
We find upon the limestone rocks the scarrings of the ancient glacier
which brought the bowlder here. Tyndall.

SCARRY
Scar"ry, a.

Defn: Bearing scars or marks of wounds.

SCARRY
Scar"ry, a. Etym: [See 4th Scar.]

Defn: Like a scar, or rocky eminence; containing scars. Holinshed.

SCARUS
Sca"rus, n. Etym: [L. See Scar a kind of fish.] (Zool.)

Defn: A Mediterranean food fish (Sparisoma scarus) od excellent
quality and highly valued by the Romans; -- called also parrot fish.

SCARY
Sca"ry, n. Etym: [Prov. E. scare scraggy.]

Defn: Barren land having only a thin coat of grass. [Prov. Eng.]

SCARY
Scar"y, a. Etym: [From Scare.]

1. Subject to sudden alarm. [Colloq.U.S.] Whittier.

2. Causing fright; alarming. [Colloq.U.S.]

SCASELY
Scase"ly, adv.

Defn: Scarcely; hardly. [Obs. or Colloq.] Robynson (More's Utopia)

SCAT
Scat, interj.

Defn: Go away; begone; away; -- chiefly used in driving off a cat.

SCAT; SCATT
Scat, Scatt, n. Etym: [Icel. scattr.]

Defn: Tribute. [R.] "Seizing scatt and treasure." Longfellow.

SCAT
Scat, n.

Defn: A shower of rain. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

SCATCH
Scatch, n. Etym: [F. escache.]

Defn: A kind of bit for the bridle of a horse; -- called also
scatchmouth. Bailey.

SCATCHES
Scatch"es, n.; pl. Etym: [OF. eschaces, F. echasses, fr. D. schaats a
high-heeled shoe, a skate. See Skate, for the foot.]

Defn: Stilts. [Prov. Eng.]

SCATE
Scate, n.

Defn: See Skate, for the foot.

SCATEBROUS
Scat"e*brous, a. Etym: [L. scatebra a gushing up of water, from
scatere to bubble, gush.]

Defn: Abounding with springs. [Obs.]

SCATH
Scath, n. Etym: [Icel. skathi; akin to Dan. skade, Sw. skada, AS.
sceatha, scatha, foe, injurer, OS. skatho, D. schade, schaden; cf.
Gr. Scathe, v.]

Defn: Harm; damage; injury; hurt; waste; misfortune. [Written also
scathe.]
But she was somedeal deaf, and that was skathe. Chaucer.
Great mercy, sure, for to enlarge a thrall, Whose freedom shall thee
turn to greatest scath. Spenser.
Wherein Rome hath done you any scath, Let him make treble
satisfaction. Shak.

SCATHE; SCATH
Scathe, Scath, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scathed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Scathing.] Etym: [Icel. skatha; akin to AS. sceathan, sceth\'eban,
Dan. skade, Sw. skada, D. & G. schaden, OHG. scadon, Goth. ska?jan.]

Defn: To do harm to; to injure; to damage; to waste; to destroy.
As when heaven's fire Hath scathed the forest oaks or mountain pines.
Milton.
Strokes of calamity that scathe and scorch the soul. W. Irwing.

SCATHFUL
Scath"ful, a.

Defn: Harmful; doing damage; pernicious. Shak.
 -- Scath"ful*ness, n.

SCATHLESS
Scath"less, a.

Defn: Unharmed. R. L. Stevenson.
He, too, . . . is to be dismissed scathless. Sir W. Scott.

SCATHLY
Scath"ly, a.

Defn: Injurious; scathful. [Obs.]

SCATTER
Scat"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Scattering.]
Etym: [OE. scateren. See Shatter.]

1. To strew about; to sprinkle around; to throw down loosely; to
deposit or place here and there, esp. in an open or sparse order.
And some are scattered all the floor about. Chaucer.
Why should my muse enlarge on Libyan swains, Their scattered
cottages, and ample plains Dryden.
Teach the glad hours to scatter, as they fly, Soft quiet, gentle
love, and endless joy. Prior.

2. To cause to separate in different directions; to reduce from a
close or compact to a loose or broken order; to dissipate; to
disperse.
Scatter and disperse the giddy Goths. Shak.

3. Hence, to frustrate, disappoint, and overthrow; as, to scatter
hopes, plans, or the like.

Syn.
 -- To disperse; dissipate; spread; strew.

SCATTER
Scat"ter, v. i.

Defn: To be dispersed or dissipated; to disperse or separate; as,
clouds scatter after a storm.

SCATTER-BRAIN
Scat"ter-brain`, n.

Defn: A giddy or thoughtless person; one incapable of concentration
or attention. [Written also scatter-brains.]

SCATTER-BRAINED
Scat"ter-brained`, a.

Defn: Giddy; thoughtless.

SCATTERED
Scat"tered, a.

1. Dispersed; dissipated; sprinkled, or loosely spread.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Irregular in position; having no regular order; as, scattered
leaves.
 -- Scat"tered*ly, adv.
 -- Scat"tered*ness, n.

SCATTERGOOD
Scat"ter*good`, n.

Defn: One who wastes; a spendthrift.

SCATTERING
Scat"ter*ing, a.

Defn: Going or falling in various directions; not united or
agregated; divided among many; as, scattering votes.

SCATTERING
Scat"ter*ing, n.

Defn: Act of strewing about; something scattered. South.

SCATTERINGLY
Scat"ter*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scattering manner; dispersedly.

SCATTERLING
Scat"ter*ling, n. Etym: [Scatter + -ling.]

Defn: One who has no fixed habitation or residence; a vagabond.
[Obs.] "Foreign scatterlings." Spenser.

SCATURIENT
Sca*tu"ri*ent, a.Etym: [L. scaturiens, p.pr. of scaturire gush out,
from scatere to bubble, gush.]

Defn: Gushing forth; full to overflowing; effusive. [R.]
A pen so scaturient and unretentive. Sir W. Scott.

SCATURIGINOUS
Scat`u*rig"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. skaturiginosus, fr. scaturigo gushing
water. See Scaturient.]

Defn: Abounding with springs. [Obs.]

SCAUP
Scaup, n. Etym: [See Scalp a bed of oysters or mussels.]

1. A bed or stratum of shellfish; scalp. [Scot.]

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A scaup duck. See below. Scaup duck (Zool.), any one of several
species of northern ducks of the genus Aythya, or Fuligula. The adult
males are, in large part, black. The three North American species
are: the greater scaup duck (Aythya marila, var. nearctica), called
also broadbill, bluebill, blackhead, flock duck, flocking fowl, and
raft duck; the lesser scaup duck (A. affinis), called also little
bluebill, river broadbill, and shuffler; the tufted, or ring-necked,
scaup duck (A. collaris), called also black jack, ringneck, ringbill,
ringbill shuffler, etc. See Illust. of Ring-necked, under Ring-
necked. The common European scaup, or mussel, duck (A.marila),
closely resembles the American variety.

SCAUPER
Scaup"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Scalper.]

Defn: A tool with a semicircular edge, -- used by engravers to clear
away the spaces between the lines of an engraving. Fairholt.

SCAUR
Scaur, n.

Defn: A precipitous bank or rock; a scar.

SCAVAGE
Scav"age (; 48), n. Etym: [LL. scavagium, fr. AS. sceawian to lock at
to inspect. See Show.] (O.Eng. Law)

Defn: A toll duty formerly exacted of merchant strangers by mayors,
sheriffs, etc., for goods shown or offered for sale within their
precincts. Cowell.

SCAVENGE
Scav"enge, v. t.

Defn: To cleanse, as streets, from filth. C. Kingsley.

SCAVENGER
Scav"en*ger, n. Etym: [OE. scavager an officer with various duties,
orginally attending to scavage, fr. OE. & E. scavage. See Scavage,
Show, v.]

Defn: A person whose employment is to clean the streets of a city, by
scraping or sweeping, and carrying off the fifth. The name is also
applied to any animal which devours refuse, carrion, or anything
injurious to health. Scavenger beetle (Zool.), any beetle which feeds
on decaying substances, as the carrion beetle.
 -- Scavanger crab (Zool.), any crab which feeds on dead animals, as
the spider crab.
 -- Scavenger's daughter Etym: [corrupt. of Skevington's daughter],
an instrument of torture invented by Sir W. Skevington, which so
compressed the body as to force the blood to flow from nostrils. and
sometimes from the hands and feet. Am. Cyc.

SCAVENGING
Scav"eng*ing, p. pr. & vb. n. of Scavenge. Hence, n. (Internal-
combustion Engines)

Defn: Act or process of expelling the exhaust gases from the cylinder
by some special means, as, in many four-cycle engines, by utilizing
the momentum of the exhaust gases in a long exhaust pipe.

SCAZON
Sca"zon, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. to limp.] (Lat. Pros.)

Defn: A choliamb.

SCELERAT
Scel"er*at, n. Etym: [F. scelera from L. sceleratus, p.p. of
scelerare to pollute, from scelus, sceleris, a crime.]

Defn: A villian; a criminal. [Obs.] Cheyne.

SCELESTIC
Sce*les"tic, a. Etym: [L. scelestus, from scelus wickedness.]

Defn: Evil; wicked; atrocious. [Obs.] "Scelestic villainies."
Feltham.

SCELET
Scel"et, n. Etym: [See Skeleton.]

Defn: A mummy; a skeleton. [Obs.] olland.

SCENA
Sce"na, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)
(a) A scene in an opera.
(b) An accompanied dramatic recitative, interspersed with passages of
melody, or followed by a full aria. Rockstro.

SCENARIO
Sce*na"ri*o, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A preliminary sketch of the plot, or main incidents, of an
opera.

SCENARY
Scen"a*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. L. scenarius belonging to the stage.]

Defn: Scenery. [Obs.] Dryden.

SCENE
Scene, n. Etym: [L. scaena, scena, Gr.

1. The structure on which a spectacle or play is exhibited; the part
of a theater in which the acting is done, with its adjuncts and
decorations; the stage.

2. The decorations and fittings of a stage, representing the place in
which the action is supposed to go on; one of the slides, or other
devices, used to give an appearance of reality to the action of a
play; as, to paint scenes; to shift the scenes; to go behind the
scenes.

3. So much of a play as passes without change of locality or time, or
important change of character; hence, a subdivision of an act; a
separate portion of a play, subordinate to the act, but differently
determined in different plays; as, an act of four scenes.
My dismal scene I needs must act alone. Shak.

4. The place, time, circumstance, etc., in which anything occurs, or
in which the action of a story, play, or the like, is laid;
surroundings amid which anything is set before the imagination; place
of occurence, exhibition, or action. "In Troy, there lies the scene."
Shak.
The world is a vast scene of strife. J. M. Mason.

5. An assemblage of objects presented to the view at once; a series
of actions and events exhibited in their connection; a spectacle; a
show; an exhibition; a view.
Through what new scenes and changes must we pass! Addison.

6. A landscape, or part of a landscape; scenery.
A sylvan scene with various greens was drawn, Shades on the sides,
and in the midst a lawn. Dryden.

7. An exhibition of passionate or strong feeling before others;
often, an artifical or affected action, or course of action, done for
effect; a theatrical display.
Probably no lover of scenes would have had very long to wait De
Quincey.
Behind the scenes, behind the scenery of a theater; out of the view
of the audience, but in sight of the actors, machinery, etc.; hence,
conversant with the hidden motives and agencies of what appears to
public view.

SCENE
Scene, v. t.

Defn: To exhibit as a scene; to make a scene of; to display. [Obs.]
Abp. Sancroft.

SCENEFUL
Scene"ful, a.

Defn: Having much scenery. [R.]

SCENEMAN
Scene"man, n.; pl. Scenemen (.

Defn: The man who manages the movable scenes in a theater.

SCENERY
Scen"er*y, n.

1. Assemblage of scenes; the scenes of a play; the disposition and
arrangement of the scenes in which the action of a play, poem, etc.,
is laid; representation of place of action or occurence.

2. Sum of scenes or views; general aspect, as regards variety and
beauty or the reverse, in a landscape; combination of natural views,
as woods, hills, etc.
Never need an American look beyond his own country for the sublime
and beautiful of natural scenery. W. Irving.

SCENESHIFTER
Scene"shift`er, n.

Defn: One who moves the scenes in a theater; a sceneman.

SCENIC; SCENICAL
Scen"ic, Scen"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. scaenicus, scenicus, Gr. scenique.
See Scene.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to scenery; of the nature of scenery;
theatrical.
All these situations communicate a scenical animation to the wild
romance, if treated dramatically. De Quincey.

SCENOGRAPH
Scen"o*graph, n. Etym: [See Scenography.]

Defn: A perspective representation or general view of an object.

SCENOGRAPHIC; SCENOGRAPHICAL
Scen`o*graph"ic, Scen`o*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. scenographique,
Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to scenography; drawn in perspective.
 -- Scen`o*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

SCENOGRAPHY
Sce*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [L. scenographia, Gr. scenographie.]

Defn: The art or act of representing a body on a perspective plane;
also, a representation or description of a body, in all its
dimensions, as it appears to the eye. Greenhill.

SCENT
Scent, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scented; p. pr. & vb. n. Scenting.] Etym:
[Originally sent, fr. F. sentir to feel, to smell. See Sense.]

1. To perceive by the olfactory organs; to smell; as, to scent game,
as a hound does.
Methinks I scent the morning air. Shak.

2. To imbue or fill with odor; to perfume.
Balm from a silver box distilled around, Shall all bedew the roots,
and scent the sacred ground. Dryden.

SCENT
Scent, v. i.

1. To have a smell. [Obs.]
Thunderbolts . . . do scent strongly of brimstone. Holland.

2. To hunt animals by means of the sense of smell.

SCENT
Scent, n.

1. That which, issuing from a body, affects the olfactory organs of
animals; odor; smell; as, the scent of an orange, or of a rose; the
scent of musk.
With lavish hand diffuses scents ambrosial. prior.

2. Specifically, the odor left by an animal on the ground in passing
over it; as, dogs find or lose the scent; hence, course of pursuit;
track of discovery.
He gained the observations of innumerable ages, and traveled upon the
same scent into Ethiopia. Sir W. Temple.

3. The power of smelling; the sense of smell; as, a hound of nice
scent; to divert the scent. I. Watts.

SCENTFUL
Scent"ful, a.

1. Full of scent or odor; odorous. "A scentful nosegay." W. Browne.

2. Of quick or keen smell.
The scentful osprey by the rock had fished. W. Browne.

SCENTINGLY
Scent"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By scent. [R.] Fuller.

SCENTLESS
Scent"less, a.

Defn: Having no scent.
The scentless and the scented rose. Cowper.

SCEPSIS
Scep"sis, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. skepsis. See Skeptic.]

Defn: Skepticism; skeptical philosophy. [R.]
Among their products were the system of Locke, the scepsis of Hume,
the critical philosophy of kant. J. martineau.

SCEPTER; SCEPTRE
Scep"ter, Scep"tre, n. Etym: [F. sceptre, L. sceptrum, from Gr.
shaft. See Shaft, and cf. Scape a stem, shaft.]

1. A staff or baton borne by a sovereign, as a ceremonial badge or
emblem of authority; a royal mace.
And the king held out Esther the golden scepter that was in his hand.
Esther v. 2.

2. Hence, royal or imperial power or authority; sovereignty; as, to
assume the scepter.
The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between
his feet, until Shilon come. Gen. xlix. 10.

SCEPTER; SCEPTRE
Scep"ter, Scep"tre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sceptered or Sceptred (p. pr.
& vb. n. Sceptering or Sceptring (.]

Defn: To endow with the scepter, or emblem of authority; to invest
with royal authority.
To Britain's queen the sceptered suppliant bends. Tickell.

SCEPTERELLATE
Scep`ter*el"late, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a straight shaft with whorls of spines; -- said of
certain sponge spicules. See Illust. under Spicule.

SCEPTERLESS; SCEPTRELESS
Scep"ter*less, Scep"tre*less, a.

Defn: Having no scepter; without authority; powerless; as, a
scepterless king.

SCEPTIC; SCEPTICAL; SCEPTICISM
Scep"tic, Scep"tic*al, Scep"ti*cism,

Defn: etc. See Skeptic, Skeptical, Skepticism, etc.

SCEPTRAL
Scep"tral, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a scepter; like a scepter.

SCERN
Scern, v. t.

Defn: To discern; to perceive. [Obs.]

SCHADE
Schade, n.

Defn: Shade; shadow. [Obs.]

Note: English words now beginning with sh, like shade, were formerly
often spelled with a c between the s and h; as, schade; schame;
schape; schort, etc.

SCHAH
Schah, n.

Defn: See Shah.

SCHAPPE
Schap"pe, n. [G. dial. (Swiss), waste, impurity.]

Defn: A silk yarn or fabric made out of carded spun silk.

SCHATCHEN
Schat"chen, n. [Yiddish, fr. NHeb. shadkhan, fr. shadakh to bring
about a marriage, orig., to persuade.]

Defn: A person whose business is marriage brokage; a marriage broker,
esp. among certain Jews.

SCHEDIASM
Sche"di*asm, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Cursory writing on a loose sheet. [R.]

SCHEDULE
Sched"ule (; in England commonly ; 277), n. Etym: [F. cedule,
formerly also spelt schedule, L. schedula, dim. of scheda, scida, a
strip of papyrus bark, a leaf of paper; akin to (or perh. from) Gr.
scindere to cleave, Gr. Schism, and cf. Cedule.]

Defn: A written or printed scroll or sheet of paper; a document;
especially, a formal list or inventory; a list or catalogue annexed
to a larger document, as to a will, a lease, a statute, etc.

Syn.
 -- Catalogue; list; inventory. see List.

SCHEDULE
Sched"ule, v. t.

Defn: To form into, or place in, a schedule.

SCHEELE'S GREEN
Scheele's" green`. Etym: [See Scheelite.] (Chem.)

Defn: See under Green.

SCHEELIN
Scheel"in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Scheelium. [Obs.]

SCHEELITE
Scheel"ite (, n. Etym: [From C.W.Scheele, a Swedish chemist.] (Min.)

Defn: Calcium tungstate, a mineral of a white or pale yellowish color
and of the tetragonal system of crystallization.

SCHEELIUM
Schee"li*um, n. Etym: [NL. From C.W.Scheele, who discovered it.]
(Chem.)

Defn: The metal tungsten. [Obs.]

SCHEIK
Scheik (shek or shak), n.

Defn: See Sheik.

SCHELLY
Schel"ly, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The powan. [Prov. Eng.]

SCHEMA
Sche"ma, n.; pl. Schemata, E. Schemas. Etym: [G. See Scheme.]
(Kantian Philos.)

Defn: An outline or image universally applicable to a general
conception, under which it is likely to be presented to the mind; as,
five dots in a line are a schema of the number five; a preceding and
succeeding event are a schema of cause and effect.

SCHEMATIC
Sche*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a scheme or a schema.

SCHEMATISM
Sche"ma*tism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. schematisme (cf. L. schematismos
florid speech), fr. Gr. Scheme.]

1. (Astrol.)

Defn: Combination of the aspects of heavenly bodies.

2. Particular form or disposition of a thing; an exhibition in
outline of any systematic arrangement. [R.]

SCHEMATIST
Sche"ma*tist, n.

Defn: One given to forming schemes; a projector; a schemer. Swift.

SCHEMATIZE
Sche"ma*tize, v. i. Etym: [Cf. F. schematiser, Gr.

Defn: To form a scheme or schemes.

SCHEME
Scheme, n. Etym: [L. schema a rhetorical figure, a shape, figure,
manner, Gr. sah to be victorious, to endure, to hold out, AS. sige
victory, G. sieg. Cf. Epoch, Hectic, School.]

1. A combination of things connected and adjusted by design; a
system.
The appearance and outward scheme of things. Locke.
Such a scheme of things as shall at once take in time and eternity.
Atterbury.
Arguments . . . sufficient to support and demonstrate a whole scheme
of moral philosophy. J. Edwards.
The Revolution came and changed his whole scheme of life. Macaulay.

2. A plan or theory something to be done; a design; a project; as, to
form a scheme.
The stoical scheme of supplying our wants by lopping off our desires,
is like cuttig off our feet when we want shoes. Swift.

3. Any lineal or mathematical diagram; an outline.
To draw an exact scheme of Constantinople, or a map of France. South.

4. (Astrol.)

Defn: A representation of the aspects of the celestial bodies for any
moment o at a given event.
A blue case, from which was drawn a scheme of nativity. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Plan; project; contrivance; purpose; device; plot.
 -- Scheme, Plan. Scheme and plan are subordinate to design; they
propose modes of carrying our designs into effect. Scheme is the
least definite of the two, and lies more in speculation. A plan is
drawn out into details with a view to being carried into effect. As
schemes are speculative, they often prove visionary; hence the
opprobrious use of the words schemer and scheming. Plans, being more
practical, are more frequently carried into effect.
He forms the well-concerted scheme of mischief; 'T is fixed, 't is
done, and both are doomed to death. Rowe.
Artists and plans relieved my solemn hours; I founded palaces, and
planted bowers. prior.

SCHEME
Scheme, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Schemed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scheming.]

Defn: To make a scheme of; to plan; to design; to project; to plot.
That wickedness which schemed, and executed, his destruction. G.
Stuart.

SCHEME
Scheme, v. i.

Defn: To form a scheme or schemes.

SCHEMEFUL
Scheme"ful, a.

Defn: Full of schemes or plans.

SCHEMER
Schem"er, n.

Defn: One who forms schemes; a projector; esp., a plotter; an
intriguer.
Schemers and confederates in guilt. Paley.

SCHEMING
Schem"ing, a.

Defn: Given to forming schemes; artful; intriguing.
 -- Schem"ing*ly, adv.

SCHEMIST
Schem"ist, n.

Defn: A schemer. [R.] Waterland.

SCHENE
Schene, n. Etym: [L. schoenus, Gr. schene.] (Antiq.)

Defn: An Egyptian or Persian measure of length, varying from thirthy-
two to sixty stadia.

SCHENKBEER
Schenk"beer`, n. Etym: [G. schenkbier; schenken to pour out + bier
beer; -- so called because put on draught soon after it is made.]

Defn: A mild German beer.

SCHERBET
Scher"bet, n.

Defn: See Sherbet.

SCHERIF
Scher"if ( or ), n.

Defn: See Sherif.

SCHERZANDO
Scher*zan"do, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: In a playful or sportive manner.

SCHERZO
Scher"zo, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A playful, humorous movement, commonly in 3-4 measure, which
often takes the place of the old minuet and trio in a sonata or a
symphony.

SCHESIS
Sche"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. Scheme.]

1. General state or disposition of the body or mind, or of one thing
with regard to other things; habitude. [Obs.] Norris.

2. (Rhet.)

Defn: A figure of speech whereby the mental habitude of an adversary
or opponent is feigned for the purpose of arguing against him. Crabb.

SCHETIC; SCHETICAL
Schet"ic, Schet"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the habit of the body; constitutional.
[Obs.] Cudworth.

SCHIEDAM
Schie*dam", n. Etym: [Short for Schiedam schnapps.]

Defn: Holland gin made at Schiedam in the Netherlands.

SCHILLER
Schil"ler, n. Etym: [G., play of colors.] (Min.)

Defn: The peculiar bronzelike luster observed in certain minerals, as
hypersthene, schiller spar, etc. It is due to the presence of minute
inclusions in parallel position, and in sometimes of secondary
origin. Schiller spar (Min.), an altered variety of enstatite,
exhibiting, in certain positions, a bronzelike luster.

SCHILLERIZATION
Schil`ler*i*za"tion, n. (Min.)

Defn: The act or process of producing schiller in a mineral mass.

SCHILLING
Schil"ling, n. Etym: [G. See Shilling.]

Defn: Any one of several small German and Dutch coins, worth from
about one and a half cents to about five cents.

SCHINDYLESIS
Schin`dy*le"sis, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: A form of articulation in which one bone is received into a
groove or slit in another.

SCHIRRHUS
Schir"rhus, n.

Defn: See Scirrhus.

SCHISM
Schism, n. Etym: [OE. scisme, OF. cisme, scisme, F. schisme, L.
schisma, Gr. scindere, Skr. child, and prob. to E. shed, v.t. (which
see); cf. Rescind, Schedule, Zest.]

Defn: Division or separation; specifically (Eccl.), permanent
division or separation in the Christian church; breach of unity among
people of the same religious faith; the offense of seeking to produce
division in a church without justifiable cause.
Set bounds to our passions by reason, to our errors by truth, and to
our schisms by charity. Eikon Basilike.

Greek schism (Eccl.), the separation of the Greek and Roman churches.
 -- Great schism, or Western schism (Eccl.) a schism in the church in
the latter part of the 14th century, on account of rival claimants to
the papal throne.
 -- Schism act (Law), an act of the English Parliament requiring all
teachers to conform to the Established Church, -- passed in 1714,
repealed in 1719.

SCHISMA
Schis"ma, n. Etym: [L., a spilt, separation, Gr. schisma. See
Schism.] (Anc. Mus.)

Defn: An interval equal to half a comma.

SCHISMATIC
Schis*mat"ic (siz*mat"ik; so nearly all orthoepists), a. Etym: [L.
schismaticus, Gr. schismatique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to schism; implying schism; partaking of the
nature of schism; tending to schism; as, schismatic opinions or
proposals.

SCHISMATIC
Schis*mat"ic, n.

Defn: One who creates or takes part in schism; one who separates from
an established church or religious communion on account of a
difference of opinion. "They were popularly classed together as
canting schismatics." Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Heretic; partisan. See Heretic.

SCHISMATICAL
Schis*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Same as Schismatic.
 -- Schismat"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Schis*mat"ic*al*ness, n.

SCHISMATIZE
Schis"ma*tize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Schismatized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Schismatizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. schismatiser.]

Defn: To make part in schism; to make a breach of communion in the
church.

SCHISMLESS
Schism"less, a.

Defn: Free from schism.

SCHIST
Schist (shist), n. Etym: [Gr. schiste. See Schism.] (Geol.)

Defn: Any crystalline rock having a foliated structure (see
Foliation) and hence admitting of ready division into slabs or
slates. The common kinds are mica schist, and hornblendic schist,
consisting chiefly of quartz with mica or hornblende and often
feldspar.

SCHISTACEOUS
Schis*ta"ceous, a.

Defn: Of a slate color.

SCHISTIC
Schist"ic, a.

Defn: Schistose.

SCHISTOSE; SCHISTOUS
Schis*tose", Schist*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. schisteux.] (Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to schist; having the structure of a schist.

SCHISTOSITY
Schis*tos"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. schistosite.] (Geol.)

Defn: The quality or state of being schistose.

SCHIZO-
Schiz"o-. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A combining form denoting division or cleavage; as,
schizogenesis, reproduction by fission or cell division.

SCHIZOCARP
Schiz"o*carp, n. Etym: [Schizo- + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A dry fruit which splits at maturity into several closed one-
seeded portions.

SCHIZOCOELE
Schiz"o*coele, n. Etym: [Schizo- + Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: See Enterocoele.

SCHIZOCOELOUS
Schiz`o*coe"lous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, a schizocoele.

SCHIZOGENESIS
Schiz`o*gen"e*sis, n. Etym: [Schizo- + genesis.] (Biol.)

Defn: reproduction by fission. Haeckel.

SCHIZOGNATH
Schiz"og*nath, n. Etym: [See Schizognathous.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any bird with a schizognathous palate.

SCHIZOGNATHAE
Schi*zog"na*th?, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: The schizognathous birds.

SCHIZOGNATHISM
Schi*zog"na*thism, n. (Zool.)

Defn: the condition of having a schizognathous palate.

SCHIZOGNATHOUS
Schi*zog"na*thous, a. Etym: [Schize- + Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the maxillo-palatine bones separate from each other and
from the vomer, which is pointed in front, as in the gulls, snipes,
grouse, and many other birds.

SCHIZOMYCETES
Schiz`o*my*ce"tes, n. pl., Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: An order of Schizophyta, including the so-called fission fungi,
or bacteria. See Schizophyta, in the Supplement.

SCHIZONEMERTEA
Schiz`o*ne*mer"te*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Schizo-, and Nemertes.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A group of nemerteans comprising those having a deep slit along
each side of the head. See Illust. in Appendix.

SCHIZONT
Schi"zont (ski"zont or skiz"ont), n. [Gr. , , p.pr., cleaving.]
(Zool.)

Defn: In certain Sporozoa, a cell formed by the growth of a
sporozoite or merozoite (in a cell or corpuscle of the host) which
segment by superficial cleavage, without encystment or conjugation,
into  merozoites.

SCHIZOPELMOUS
Schiz`o*pel"mous, a. Etym: [Schizo- + Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the two flexor tendons of the toes entirely separate,
and the flexor hallicus going to the first toe only.

SCHIZOPHYTE
Schiz"o*phyte, n. Etym: [Schizo- + Gr. (Biol.)

Defn: One of a class of vegetable organisms, in the classification of
Cohn, which includes all of the inferior forms that multiply by
fission, whether they contain chlorophyll or not.

SCHIZOPOD
Schiz"o*pod, n. (Zool.)

Defn: one of the Schizopoda. Also used adjectively.

SCHIZOPOD; SCHIZOPODOUS
Schiz"o*pod, Schi*zop"o*dous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a schizopod, or the Schizopoda.

SCHIZOPODA
Schi*zop"o*da, n. pl., Etym: [NL. See Schizo-, and -poda.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of shrimplike Thoracostraca in which each of the
thoracic legs has a long fringed upper branch (exopodite) for
swimming.

SCHIZORHINAL
Schiz`o*rhi"nal, a. Etym: [Schizo- + rhinal.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: Having the nasal bones separate.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the anterior nostrils prolonged backward in the form of
a slit.

SCHLICH
Schlich, n. Etym: [G.; akin to LG. slik mud, D. slijk, MHG. sl.]
(Metal.)

Defn: The finer portion of a crushed ore, as of gold, lead, or tin,
separated by the water in certain wet processes. [Written also slich,
slick.]

SCHMELZE
Schmel"ze, n. Etym: [G. schmelz, schmelzglas.]

Defn: A kind of glass of a red or ruby color, made in Bohemia.

SCHNAPPS
Schnapps, n. Etym: [G., a dram of spirits.]

Defn: Holland gin. [U.S.]

SCHNEIDERIAN
Schnei*de"ri*an (, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Discovered or described by C. V. Schneider, a German anatomist
of the seventeenth century. Schneiderian membrane, the mucous
membrane which lines the nasal chambers; the pituitary membrane.

SCHNORRER
Schnor"rer, n. [Yiddish, fr. G. schnurrer, fr. schnurren to hum,
whir, hence, from the sound of the musical instrument used by
strolling beggars, to beg.]

Defn: Among the Jews, a beggar.

SCHOHARIE GRIT
Scho*har"ie grit`. (Geol.)

Defn: The formation belonging to the middle of the three subdivisions
of the Corniferous period in the American Devonian system; -- so
called from Schoharie, in New York, where it occurs. See the Chart of
Geology.

SCHOLAR
Schol"ar, n. Etym: [OE. scoler, AS. scolere, fr. L. scholaris
belonging to a school, fr. schola a school. See School.]

1. One who attends a school; one who learns of a teacher; one under
the tuition of a preceptor; a pupil; a disciple; a learner; a
student.
I am no breeching scholar in the schools. Shak.

2. One engaged in the pursuits of learning; a learned person; one
versed in many branches, of knowledge; a person of high literary or
scientific attainments; a savant. Shak. Locke.

3. A man of books. Bacon.

4. In English universities, an undergraduate who belongs to the
foundation of a college, and receives support in part from its
revenues.

Syn.
 -- Pupil; learner; disciple.
 -- Scholar, Pupil. Scholar refers to the instruction, and pupil to
the care and government, of a teacher. A scholar is one who is under
instruction; a pupil is one who is under the immediate and personal
care of an instructor; hence we speak of a bright scholar, and an
obedient pupil.

SCHOLARITY
Scho*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [OF. scholarite, or LL. scholaritias.]

Defn: Scholarship. [Obs.] . Jonson.

SCHOLARLIKE
Schol"ar*like`, a.

Defn: Scholarly. Bacon.

SCHOLARLY
Schol"ar*ly, a.

Defn: Like a scholar, or learned person; showing the qualities of a
scholar; as, a scholarly essay or critique.
 -- adv.

Defn: In a scholarly manner.

SCHOLARSHIP
Schol"ar*ship, n.

1. The character and qualities of a scholar; attainments in science
or literature; erudition; learning.
A man of my master's . . . great scholarship. Pope.

2. Literary education. [R.]
Any other house of scholarship. Milton.

3. Maintenance for a scholar; a foundation for the support of a
student. T. Warton.

Syn.
 -- Learning; erudition; knowledge.

SCHOLASTIC
Scho*las"tic, a. Etym: [L. scholasticus, Gr. scholastique,
scolastique. See School.]

1. Pertaining to, or suiting, a scholar, a school, or schools;
scholarlike; as, scholastic manners or pride; scholastic learning.
Sir K. Digby.

2. Of or pertaining to the schoolmen and divines of the Middle Ages
(see Schoolman); as, scholastic divinity or theology; scholastic
philosophy. Locke.

3. Hence, characterized by excessive subtilty, or needlessly minute
subdivisions; pedantic; formal.

SCHOLASTIC
Scho*las"tic, n.

1. One who adheres to the method or subtilties of the schools.
Milton.

2. (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: See the Note under Jesuit.

SCHOLASTICAL
Scho*las"tic*al, a. & n.

Defn: Scholastic.

SCHOLASTICALLY
Scho*las"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scholastic manner.

SCHOLASTICISM
Scho*las"ti*cism, n.

Defn: The method or subtitles the schools of philosophy; scholastic
formality; scholastic doctrines or philosophy.
The spirit of the old scholasticism . . . spurned laborious
investigation and slow induction. J. P. Smith.

SCHOLIA
Scho"li*a, n. pl.

Defn: See Scholium.

SCHOLIAST
Scho"li*ast, n. Etym: [Gr. scoliate. See Scholium.]

Defn: A maker of scholia; a commentator or annotator.
No . . . quotations from Talmudists and scholiasts . . . ever marred
the effect of his grave temperate discourses. Macaulay.

SCHOLIASTIC
Scho`li*as"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a scholiast, or his pursuits. Swift.

SCHOLIAZE
Scho"li*aze, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Gr.

Defn: To write scholia. [Obs.] Milton.

SCHOLICAL
Schol"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. scholicus, Gr. School.]

Defn: Scholastic. [Obs.] ales.

SCHOLION
Scho"li*on, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A scholium.
A judgment which follows immediately from another is sometimes called
a corollary, or consectary . . . One which illustrates the science
where it appears, but is not an integral part of it, is a scholion.
Abp. Thomson (Laws of Thought).

SCHOLIUM
Scho"li*um, n.; pl. L. Scholia, E. Scholiums. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
School.]

1. Marginal anotation; an explanatory remark or comment;
specifically, an explanatory comment on the text of a classic author
by an early grammarian.

2. A remark or observation subjoined to a demonstration or a train of
reasoning.

SCHOLY
Scho"ly, n.

Defn: A scholium. [Obs.] Hooker.

SCHOLY
Scho"ly, v. i. & t.

Defn: To write scholia; to annotate. [Obs.]

SCHOOL
School, n. Etym: [For shool a crowd; prob. confuced with school for
learning.]

Defn: A shoal; a multitude; as, a school of fish.

SCHOOL
School, n. Etym: [OE. scole, AS. sc, L. schola, Gr. Scheme.]

1. A place for learned intercourse and instruction; an institution
for learning; an educational establishment; a place for acquiring
knowledge and mental training; as, the school of the prophets.
Disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus. Acts xix. 9.

2. A place of primary instruction; an establishment for the
instruction of children; as, a primary school; a common school; a
grammar school.
As he sat in the school at his primer. Chaucer.

3. A session of an institution of instruction.
How now, Sir Hugh! No school to-day Shak.

4. One of the seminaries for teaching logic, metaphysics, and
theology, which were formed in the Middle Ages, and which were
characterized by academical disputations and subtilties of reasoning.
At Cambridge the philosophy of Descartes was still dominant in the
schools. Macaulay.

5. The room or hall in English universities where the examinations
for degrees and honors are held.

6. An assemblage of scholars; those who attend upon instruction in a
school of any kind; a body of pupils.
What is the great community of Christians, but one of the innumerable
schools in the vast plan which God has instituted for the education
of various intelligences Buckminster.

7. The disciples or followers of a teacher; those who hold a common
doctrine, or accept the same teachings; a sect or denomination in
philosophy, theology, science, medicine, politics, etc.
Let no man be less confident in his faith . . . by reason of any
difference in the several schools of Christians. Jer. Taylor.

8. The canons, precepts, or body of opinion or practice, sanctioned
by the authority of a particular class or age; as, he was a gentleman
of the old school.
His face pale but striking, though not handsome after the schools. A.
S. Hardy.

9. Figuratively, any means of knowledge or discipline; as, the school
of experience. Boarding school, Common school, District school,
Normal school, etc. See under Boarding, Common, District, etc.
 -- High school, a free public school nearest the rank of a college.
[U.S.] -- School board, a corporation established by law in every
borough or parish in England, and elected by the burgesses or
ratepayers, with the duty of providing public school accomodation for
all children in their dictrict.
 -- School commitee, School board, an elected commitee of citizens
having charge and care of the public schools in any district, town,
or city, and responsible control of the money appropriated for school
purposes. [U.S.] -- School days, the period in which youth are sent
to school.
 -- School district, a division of a town or city for establishing
and conducting schools. [U.S.] -- Sunday school, or Sabbath school, a
school held on Sunday for study of the Bible and for religious
instruction; the pupils, or the teachers and pupils, of such a
school, collectively.

SCHOOL
School, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Schooled; p. pr. & vb. n. Schooling.]

1. To train in an institution of learning; to educate at a school; to
teach.
He's gentle, never schooled, and yet learned. Shak.

2. To tutor; to chide and admonish; to reprove; to subject to
systematic disciplene; to train.
It now remains for you to school your child, And ask why God's
Anointed be reviled. Dryden.
The mother, while loving her child with the intensity of a sole
affection, had schooled herself to hope for little other return than
the waywardness of an April breeze. Hawthorne.

SCHOOLBOOK
School"book`, n.

Defn: A book used in schools for learning lessons.

SCHOOLBOY
School"boy`, n.

Defn: A boy belonging to, or attending, a school.

SCHOOLDAME
School"dame`. n.

Defn: A schoolmistress.

SCHOOLERY
School"er*y (, n.

Defn: Something taught; precepts; schooling. [Obs.] penser.

SCHOOLFELLOW
School"fel`low, n.

Defn: One bred at the same school; an associate in school.

SCHOOLGIRL
School"girl`, n.

Defn: A girl belonging to, or attending, a school.

SCHOOLHOUSE
School"house`, n.

Defn: A house appropriated for the use of a school or schools, or for
instruction.

SCHOOLING
School"ing, n.

1. Instruction in school; tuition; education in an institution of
learning; act of teaching.

2. Discipline; reproof; reprimand; as, he gave his son a good
schooling. Sir W. Scott.

3. Compensation for instruction; price or reward paid to an
instructor for teaching pupils.

SCHOOLING
School"ing, a. Etym: [See School a shoal.] (Zool.)

Defn: Collecting or running in schools or shoals.
Schooling species like the herring and menhaden. G. B. Goode.

SCHOOLMA'AM
School"ma'am, n.

Defn: A schoolmistress. [Colloq.U.S.]

SCHOOLMAID
School"maid`, n.

Defn: A schoolgirl. Shak.

SCHOOLMAN
School"man`, n.; pl. Schoolmen (.

Defn: One versed in the niceties of academical disputation or of
school divinity.

Note: The schoolmen were philosophers and divines of the Middle Ages,
esp. from the 11th century to the Reformation, who spent much time on
points of nice and abstract speculation. They were so called because
they taught in the medi?val universities and schools of divinity.

SCHOOLMASTER
School"mas`ter, n.

1. The man who presides over and teaches a school; a male teacher of
a school.
Let the soldier be abroad if he will; he can do nothing in this age.
There is another personage abroad, -- a person less imposing, -- in
the eyes of some, perhaps, insignificant. The schoolmaster is abroad;
and I trust to him, armed with his primer, against the soldier in
full military array. Brougham.

2. One who, or that which, disciplines and directs.
The law was our schoolmaster, to bring us into Christ. Gal. iii. 24.

SCHOOLMATE
School"mate`, n.

Defn: A pupil who attends the same school as another.

SCHOOLMISTRESS
School"mis`tress, n.

Defn: A woman who governs and teaches a school; a female school-
teacher.

SCHOOLROOM
School"room`, n.

Defn: A room in which pupils are taught.

SCHOOLSHIP
School"ship`, n.

Defn: A vessel employed as a nautical training school, in which naval
apprentices receive their education at the expense of the state, and
are trained for service as sailors. Also, a vessel used as a reform
school to which boys are committed by the courts to be disciplined,
and instructed as mariners.

SCHOOL-TEACHER
School"-teach`er, n.

Defn: One who teaches or instructs a school.
 -- School"-teach`ing, n.

SCHOOLWARD
School"ward, adv.

Defn: Toward school. Chaucer.

SCHOONER
Schoon"er, n. Etym: [See the Note below. Cf. Shun.] (Naut.)

Defn: Originally, a small, sharp-built vessel, with two topsails on
one or both masts and was called a topsail schooner. About 1840,
longer vesels with three masts, fore-and-aft rigged, came into use,
and since that time vesels with four masts and even with six masts,
so rigged, are built. Schooners with more than two masts are
designated three-masted schooners, four-masted schooners, etc. See
Illustration in Appendix.

Note: The fist schooner ever constructed is said to have between
built in Gloucester, Massachusetts, about theyar 1713, by a Captain
Andrew Robinson, and to have received its name from the following
trivial circumstance: When the vessel went off the stocks into the
water, a bystander cried out,"O, how she scoons!" Robinson replied, "
A scooner let her be;" and, from that time, vessels thus masted and
rigged have gone by this name. The word scoon is popularly used in
some parts of New England to denote the act of making stones skip
along the surface of water. The Scottish scon means the same thing.
Both words are probably allied to the Icel. skunda, skynda, to make
haste, hurry, AS. scunian to avoid, shun, Prov. E. scun. In the New
England records, the word appears to have been originally written
scooner. Babson, in his "History of Gloucester," gives the following
extract from a letter written in that place Sept. 25, 1721, by Dr.
Moses Prince, brother of the Rev. Thomas Prince, the annalist of New
England: "This gentleman (Captain Robinson) was first contriver of
schooners, and built the first of that sort about eight years since."

SCHOONER
Schoon"er, n. Etym: [D.]

Defn: A large goblet or drinking glass, -- used for lager beer or
ale. [U.S.]

SCHORL
Schorl (shorl), n. Etym: [G. schorl; cf. Sw. skorl.] (Min.)

Defn: Black tourmaline. [Written also shorl.]

SCHORLACEOUS
Schor*la"ceous, a.

Defn: Partaking of the nature and character of schorl; resembling
schorl.

SCHORLOUS
Schorl"ous, a.

Defn: Schorlaceous.

SCHORLY
Schorl"y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, schorl; as, schorly granite.

SCHOTTISH; SCHOTTISCHE
Schot"tish, Schot"tische, (, n. Etym: [F. schottish, schotisch from
G. schottisch Scottish, Scotch.]

Defn: A Scotch round dance in 2-4 time, similar to the polka, only
slower; also, the music for such a dance; -- not to be confounded
with the Ecossaise.

SCHREIBERSITE
Schrei"bers*ite, n. Etym: [Named after Carl von Schreibers, of
Vienna.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral occurring in steel-gray flexible folia. It contains
iron, nickel, and phosphorus, and is found only in meteoric iron.

SCHRODE
Schrode, n.

Defn: See Scrod.

SCHWANN'S SHEATH
Schwann's" sheath`. Etym: [So called from Theodor Schwann, a German
anatomist of the 19th century.] (Anat.)

Defn: The neurilemma.

SCHWANN'S WHITE SUBSTANCE
Schwann's white" sub"stance. (Anat.)

Defn: The substance of the medullary sheath.

SCHWANPAN
Schwan"pan`, n.

Defn: Chinese abacus.

SCHWEITZERKASE; SCHWEITZERKAESE
Schweit"zer*ka"se, n. Etym: [G. schweizerkase Swiss cheese.]

Defn: Gruyere cheese.

SCHWENKFELDER; SCHWENKFELDIAN
Schwenk"feld`er, Schwenk"feld`i*an, n.

Defn: A member of a religious sect founded by Kaspar von Schwenkfeld,
a Silesian reformer who disagreed with Luther, especially on the
deification of the body of Christ.

SCIAENOID
Sci*?"noid, a. Etym: [L. sci?na a kind of fish (fr. Gr. -oid.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Sci?nid?, a family of marine fishes
which includes the meagre, the squeteague, and the kingfish.

SCIAGRAPH
Sci"a*graph, n. Etym: [See Sciagraphy.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: An old term for a vertical section of a building; -- called
also sciagraphy. See Vertical section, under Section.

2. (Phys.)

Defn: A radiograph. [Written also skiagraph.]

SCIAGRAPHICAL
Sci`a*graph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sciagraphique, Gr.

Defn: Pertaining to sciagraphy.
 -- Sci`a*graph"ic*al*ly, adv.

SCIAGRAPHY
Sci*ag"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. sciagraphie.]

1. The art or science of projecting or delineating shadows as they
fall in nature. Gwilt.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Siagraph.

SCIAMACHY
Sci*am"a*chy, n.

Defn: See Sciomachy.

SCIATHERIC; SCIATHERICAL
Sci`a*ther"ic, Sci`a*ther"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Belonging to a sundial. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.
 -- Sci`a*ther"ic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.] J. Gregory.

SCIATIC
Sci*at"ic, a. Etym: [F. sciatique, LL. sciaticus, from L.
inschiadicus, Gr. Ischiadic.] (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the hip; in the region of, or affecting,
the hip; ischial; ischiatic; as, the sciatic nerve, sciatic pains.

SCIATIC
Sci*at"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sciatique.] (Med.)

Defn: Sciatica.

SCIATICA
Sci*at"i*ca, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: Neuralgia of the sciatic nerve, an affection characterized by
paroxysmal attacks of pain in the buttock, back of the thing, or in
the leg or foot, following the course of the branches of the sciatic
nerve. The name is also popularly applied to various painful
affections of the hip and the parts adjoininhg. See Ischiadic
passion, under Ischiadic.

SCIATICAL
Sci*at"ic*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Sciatic.

SCIATICALLY
Sci*at"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: With, or by means of, sciatica.

SCIBBOLETH
Scib"bo*leth, n.

Defn: Shibboleth. [Obs.]

SCIENCE
Sci"ence, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. scientia, fr. sciens, -entis, p.pr. of
scire to know. Cf. Conscience, Conscious, Nice.]

1. Knowledge; lnowledge of principles and causes; ascertained truth
of facts.
If we conceive God's or science, before the creation, to be extended
to all and every part of the world, seeing everything as it is, . . .
his science or sight from all eternity lays no necessity on anything
to come to pass. Hammond.
Shakespeare's deep and accurate science in mental philosophy.
Coleridge.

2. Accumulated and established knowledge, which has been systematized
and formulated with reference to the discovery of general truths or
the operation of general laws; knowledge classified and made
available in work, life, or the search for truth; comprehensive,
profound, or philosophical knowledge.
All this new science that men lere [teach]. Chaucer.
Science is . . . a complement of cognitions, having, in point of
form, the character of logical perfection, and in point of matter,
the character of real truth. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. Especially, such knowledge when it relates to the physical world
and its phenomena, the nature, constitution, and forces of matter,
the qualities and function of living tissues, etc.; -- called also
natural science, and physical science.
Voltaire hardly left a single corner of the field entirely unexplored
in science, poetry, history, philosophy. J. Morley.

4. Any branch or departament of systematized knowledge considered as
a distinct field of investigation or object of study; as, the science
of astronomy, of chemistry, or of mind.

Note: The ancients reckoned seven sciences, namely, grammar,
rhetoric, logic, arithmetic, music, geometry, and astronomy; -- the
first three being included in the Trivium, the remaining four in the
Quadrivium.
Good sense, which only is the gift of Heaven, And though no science,
fairly worth the seven. Pope.

5. Art, skill, or expertness, regarded as the result of knowledge of
laws and principles.
His science, coolness, and great strength. G. A. Lawrence.

Note: Science is applied or pure. Applied science is a knowledge of
facts, events, or phenomena, as explained, accounted for, or
produced, by means of powers, causes, or laws. Pure science is the
knowledge of these powers, causes, or laws, considered apart, or as
pure from all applications. Both these terms have a similar and
special signification when applied to the science of quantity; as,
the applied and pure mathematics. Exact science is knowledge so
systematized that prediction and verification, by measurement,
experiment, observation, etc., are possible. The mathematical and
physical sciences are called the exact sciences. Comparative
sciences, Inductive sciences. See under Comparative, and Inductive.

Syn.
 -- Literature; art; knowledge.
 -- Science, Literature, Art. Science is literally knowledge, but
more usually denotes a systematic and orderly arrangement of
knowledge. In a more distinctive sense, science embraces those
branches of knowledge of which the subject-matter is either ultimate
principles, or facts as explained by principles or laws thus arranged
in natural order. The term literature sometimes denotes all
compositions not embraced under science, but usually confined to the
belles-lettres. [See Literature.] Art is that which depends on
practice and skill in performance. "In science, scimus ut sciamus; in
art, scimus ut producamus. And, therefore, science and art may be
said to be investigations of truth; but one, science, inquires for
the sake of knowledge; the other, art, for the sake of production;
and hence science is more concerned with the higher truths, art with
the lower; and science never is engaged, as art is, in productive
application. And the most perfect state of science, therefore, will
be the most high and accurate inquiry; the perfection of art will be
the most apt and efficient system of rules; art always throwing
itself into the form of rules." Karslake.

SCIENCE
Sci"ence, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become versed in science; to make skilled; to
instruct. [R.] Francis.

SCIENT
Sci"ent, a. Etym: [L. sciens, -entis, p.pr.]

Defn: Knowing; skillful. [Obs.] Cockeram.

SCIENTER
Sci*en"ter, adv. Etym: [L.] (Law)

Defn: Knowingly; willfully. Bouvier.

SCIENTIAL
Sci*en"tial, a. Etym: [LL. scientialis, fr. L. scientic.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or producing, science. [R.] Milton.

SCIENTIFIC
Sci`en*tif"ic, a. Etym: [F. scientifique; L. scientia science +
facere to make.]

1. Of or pertaining to science; used in science; as, scientific
principles; scientific apparatus; scientific observations.

2. Agreeing with, or depending on, the rules or principles of
science; as, a scientific classification; a scientific arrangement of
fossils.

3. Having a knowledge of science, or of a science; evincing science
or systematic knowledge; as, a scientific chemist; a scientific
reasoner; a scientific argument.
Bossuet is as scientific in the structure of his sentences. Lander.
Scientific method, the method employed in exact science and
consisting of: (a) Careful and abundant observation and experiment.
(b) generalization of the results into formulated "Laws" and
statements.

SCIENTIFICAL
Sci`en*tif"ic*al, a.

Defn: Scientific. Locke.

SCIENTIFICALLY
Sci`en*tif"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scientific manner; according to the rules or principles of
science.
It is easier to believe than to be scientifically instructed. Locke.

SCIENTIST
Sci"en*tist, n.

Defn: One learned in science; a scientific investigator; one devoted
to scientific study; a savant. [Recent]

Note: Twenty years ago I ventured to propose one [a name for the
class of men who give their lives to scientific study] which has been
slowly finding its way to general adoption; and the word scientist,
though scarcely euphonious, has gradually assumed its place in our
vocabulary. B. A. Gould (Address, 1869).

SCILICET
Scil"i*cet, adv. Etym: [L., fr. scire licet you may know.]

Defn: To wit; namely; videlicet; -- often abbreviated to sc., or ss.

SCILLAIN
Scil"la*in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside extracted from squill (Scilla) as a light porous
substance.

SCILLITIN
Scil"li*tin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. scilistine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter principle extracted from the bulbs of the squill
(Scilla), and probably consisting of a complex mixture of several
substances.

SCIMITER; SCIMITAR
Scim"i*ter , Scim"i*tar, n. Etym: [F. cimeterre, cf. It. scimitarra,
Sp. cimitarra; fr. Biscayan cimetarry with a sharp edge; or corrupted
from Per. shimshir.]

1. A saber with a much curved blade having the edge on the convex
side, -- in use among Mohammedans, esp., the Arabs and persians.
[Written also cimeter, and scymetar.]

2. A long-handled billhook. See Billhook. Scimiter pods (Bot.), the
immense curved woody pods of a leguminous woody climbing plant
(Entada scandens) growing in tropical India and America. They contain
hard round flattish seeds two inches in diameter, which are made into
boxes.

SCINCOID
Scin"coid, a. Etym: [L. scincus a kind of lizard (fr. Gr. -oid. Cf.
Skink.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family Scincid?, or skinks.
 -- n.

Defn: A scincoidian.

SCINCOIDEA
Scin*coi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A tribe of lizards including the skinks. See Skink.

SCINCOIDIAN
Scin*coid"i*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of lizards of the family Scincid?
or tribe Scincoidea. The tongue is not extensile. The body and tail
are covered with overlapping scales, and the toes are margined. See
Illust. under Skink.

SCINIPH
Scin"iph, n. Etym: [L. scinifes, cinifes, or ciniphes, pl., Gr.

Defn: Some kind of stinging or biting insect, as a flea, a gnat, a
sandly, or the like. Ex. viii. 17 (Douay version).

SCINK
Scink, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A skink.

SCINK
Scink, n.

Defn: A slunk calf. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SCINTILLA
Scin*til"la, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A spark; the least particle; an iota; a tittle. R. North.

SCINTILLANT
Scin"til*lant, a. Etym: [L. scintillans, p.pr. of scintillare to
sparkle. See Scintillate.]

Defn: Emitting sparks, or fine igneous particles; sparkling. M.
Green.

SCINTILLATE
Scin"til*late, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scintillated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Scintillating.] Etym: [L. scintillare, scintillatum, from scintilla a
spark. Cf. Stencil.]

1. To emit sparks, or fine igneous particles.
As the electrical globe only scintillates when rubbed against its
cushion. Sir W. Scott.

2. To sparkle, as the fixed stars.

SCINTILLATION
Scin`til*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. scintillatio: cf. F. scintillation.]

1. The act of scintillating.

2. A spark of flash emitted in scintillating.
These scintillations are . . . the inflammable effluences discharged
from the bodies collided. Sir T. Browne.

SCINTILLOUS
Scin"til*lous, a.

Defn: Scintillant. [R.]

SCINTILLOUSLY
Scin"til*lous*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scintillant manner. [R.]

SCIOGRAPHY
Sci*og"ra*phy, n.

Defn: See Sciagraphy.

SCIOLISM
Sci"o*lism, n. Etym: [See Sciolist.]

Defn: The knowledge of a sciolist; superficial knowledge.

SCIOLIST
Sci"o*list, n. Etym: [L. sciolus. See Sciolous.]

Defn: One who knows many things superficially; a pretender to
science; a smatterer.
These passages in that book were enough to humble the presumption of
our modern sciolists, if their pride were not as great as their
ignorance. Sir W. Temple.
A master were lauded and scolists shent. R. Browning.

SCIOLISTIC
Sci`o*lis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sciolism, or a sciolist; partaking of
sciolism; resembling a sciolist.

SCIOLOUS
Sci"o*lous, a. Etym: [L. scilus, dim. of scius knowing, fr. scire to
know. See Science.]

Defn: Knowing superficially or imperfectly. Howell.

SCIOMACHY
Sci*om"a*chy, n. Etym: [Gr. sciomachie, sciamachie.]

Defn: A fighting with a shadow; a mock contest; an imaginary or
futile combat. [Written also scimachy.] Cowley.

SCIOMANCY
Sci"o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy: cf. F. sciomance, scaimancie.]

Defn: Divination by means of shadows.

SCION
Sci"on, n. Etym: [OF. cion, F. scion, probably fron scier to saw, fr.
L. secare to cut. Cf. Section.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A shoot or sprout of a plant; a sucker.
(b) A piece of a slender branch or twig cut for grafting. [Formerly
written also cion, and cyon.]

2. Hence, a descendant; an heir; as, a scion of a royal stock.

SCIOPTIC
Sci*op"tic, a. Etym: [Gr. scioptique. See Optic.] (Opt.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to an optical arrangement for forming images
in a darkened room, usually called scioptic ball. Scioptic ball
(Opt.), the lens of a camera obscura mounted in a wooden ball which
fits a socket in a window shutter so as to be readily turned, like
the eye, to different parts of the landscape.

SCIOPTICON
Sci*op"ti*con, n. Etym: [NL. See Scioptic.]

Defn: A kind of magic lantorn.

SCIOPTICS
Sci*op"tics, n.

Defn: The art or process of exhibiting luminous images, especially
those of external objects, in a darkened room, by arrangements of
lenses or mirrors.

SCIOPTRIC
Sci*op"tric, a. (Opt.)

Defn: Scioptic.

SCIOT
Sci"ot, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the island Scio (Chio or Chios).
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Scio. [Written also Chiot.]

SCIOTHERIC
Sci`o*ther"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. L. sciothericon Sciatheric.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sundial. Sciotheric telescope (Dialing),
an instrument consisting of a horizontal dial, with a telescope
attached to it, used for determining the time, whether of day or
night.

SCIOUS
Sci"ous, a. Etym: [L. scius.]

Defn: Knowing; having knowledge. "Brutes may be and are scious."
Coleridge.

SCIRE FACIAS
Sci`re fa"ci*as. Etym: [L., do you cause to know.] (Law)

Defn: A judicial writ, founded upon some record, and requiring the
party proceeded against to show cause why the party bringing it
should not have advantage of such record, or (as in the case of scire
facias to repeal letters patent) why the record should not be
annulled or vacated. Wharton. Bouvier.

SCIRRHOID
Scir"rhoid, a. Etym: [Scirhus + -oid.]

Defn: Resembling scirrhus. Dungliston.

SCIRRHOSITY
Scir*rhos"i*ty, n. (Med.)

Defn: A morbid induration, as of a gland; stste of being scirrhous.

SCIRRHOUS
Scir"rhous, a. Etym: [NL. scirrhosus.] (Med.)

Defn: Proceeding from scirrhus; of the nature of scirrhus; indurated;
knotty; as, scirrhous affections; scirrhous disease. [Written also
skirrhous.]

SCIRRHUS
Scir"rhus, n.; pl. L. Scirrhi, E. Scirrhuses. Etym: [NL., from L.
scirros, Gr. (Med.)
(a) An indurated organ or part; especially, an indurated gland.
[Obs.]
(b) A cancerous tumor which is hard, translucent, of a gray or bluish
color, and emits a creaking sound when incised. [Sometimes
incorrectly written schirrus; written also skirrhus.]

SCISCITATION
Scis`ci*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. sciscitatio, fr. sciscere to seek to
know, v. incho. from scire to know.]

Defn: The act of inquiring; inquiry; demand. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SCISE
Scise, v. i. Etym: [L. scindere, scissum, to cut, split.]

Defn: To cut; to penetrate. [Obs.]
The wicked steel scised deep in his right side. Fairfax.

SCISSEL
Scis"sel, n. Etym: [Cf. Scissile.]

1. The clippings of metals made in various mechanical operations.

2. The slips or plates of metal out of which circular balnks have
been cut for the purpose of coinage.

SCISSIBLE
Scis"si*ble, a. Etym: [L. scindere, scissum, to

Defn: Capable of being cut or divided by a sharp instrument. [R.]
con.

SCISSIL
Scis"sil, n.

Defn: See Scissel.

SCISSILE
Scis"sile, a. Etym: [L. scissilis, fr. scindere, scissum, to cut, to
split: cf. F. scissile. See Schism.]

Defn: Capable of being cut smoothly; scissible. [R.] Arbuthnot.

SCISSION
Scis"sion, n. Etym: [L. scissio, fr. scindere, scis, to cut, to
split: cf. F. scission.]

Defn: The act of dividing with an instrument having a sharp edge.
Wiseman.

SCISSIPARITY
Scis`si*par"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. scissus (p.p. of scindere to split) +
parere to bring forth: cf.F. scissiparite.] (Biol.)

Defn: Reproduction by fission.

SCISSOR
Scis"sor, v. t.

Defn: To cut with scissors or shears; to prepare with the aid of
scissors. Massinger.

SCISSORS
Scis"sors, n. pl. Etym: [OE. sisoures, OF. cisoires (cf. F. ciseaux),
probably fr. LL. cisorium a cutting instrument, fr. L. caedere to
cut. Cf. Chisel, Concise. The modern spelling is due to a mistaken
derivation from L. scissor one who cleaves or divides, fr. scindere,
scissum, to cut, spilt.]

Defn: A cutting instrument resembling shears, but smaller, consisting
of two cutting blades with handles, movable on a pin in the center,
by which they are held together. Often called a pair of scissors.
[Formerly written also cisors, cizars, and scissars.] Scissors
grinder (Zool.), the European goatsucker. [Prov. Eng.]

SCISSORSBILL
Scis"sors*bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Skimmer.

SCISSORSTAIL
Scis"sors*tail`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A tyrant flycatcher (Milvulus forficatus) of the Southern
United States and Mexico, which has a deeply forked tail. It is light
gray above, white beneath, salmon on the flanks, and fiery red at the
base of the crown feathers.

SCISSORS-TAILED
Scis"sors-tailed`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the outer feathers much the longest, the others
decreasing regularly to the median ones.

SCISSURE
Scis"sure, n. Etym: [L. scissura, from scindere, scissum, to cut,
spilt.]

Defn: A longitudinal opening in a body, made by cutting; a cleft; a
fissure. Hammond.

SCITAMINEOUS
Scit`a*min"e*ous, a. Etym: [NL. sciamineosus, fr. Scitamineze, fr. L.
scitamentum a delicacy, dainty.] (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a natural order of plants (Scitamime?),
mostly tropical herbs, including the ginger, Indian shot, banana, and
the plants producing turmeric and arrowroot.

SCIURINE
Sci"u*rine, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sciurien. See Sciurus.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Squirrel family.
 -- n.

Defn: A rodent of the Squirrel family.

SCIUROID
Sci"u*roid, a. Etym: [Sciurus + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Resembling the tail of a squirrel; -- generally said of
branches which are close and dense, or of spikes of grass like
barley.

SCIUROMORPHA
Sci`u*ro*mor"pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sciurus squirrel + Gr.
(Zool.)

Defn: A tribe of rodents containing the squirrels and allied animals,
such as the gophers, woodchucks, beavers, and others.

SCIURUS
Sci*u"rus, n. Etym: [L., a squirrel, Gr. Squirrel.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of reodents comprising the common squirrels.

SCLAFF
Sclaff, v. i.  [imp. & p. p. Sclaffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sclaffing.]
[Orig. uncert.]

1. To scuff or shuffle along. [Scot.]

2.  (Golf) To scrape the ground with the sole of the club, before
striking the ball, in making a stroke.

SCLAFF
Sclaff, n.  [Scot.]

1. A slight blow; a slap; a soft fall; also, the accompanying noise.

2.  (Golf) The stroke made by one who sclaffs.

3.  A thin, solid substance, esp. a thin shoe or slipper.

SCLAFF
Sclaff, v. t. (Golf)

Defn: To scrape (the club) on the ground, in a stroke, before hitting
the ball; also, to make (a stroke) in that way.

SCLAUNDRE
Sclaun"dre, n.

Defn: Slander. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SCLAV; SCLAVE
Sclav, Sclave, n.

Defn: Same as Slav.

SCLAVIC
Sclav"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Slavic.

SCLAVISM
Sclav"ism, n.

Defn: Same as Slavism.

SCLAVONIAN
Scla*vo"nian, a. & n.

Defn: Same as Slavonian.

SCLAVONIC
Scla*von"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Slavonic.

SCLENDER
Sclen"der, a.

Defn: Slender. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SCLERAGOGY
Scler"a*go`gy, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Severe discipline. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket.

SCLEREMA
Scle*re"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Induration of the cellular tissue. Sclerema of adults. See
Scleroderma.
 -- Sclerema neonatorum ( Etym: [NL., of the newborn], an affection
characterized by a peculiar hardening and rigidity of the cutaneous
and subcutaneous tissues in the newly born. It is usually fatal.
Called also skinbound disease.

SCLERENCHYMA
Scle*ren"chy*ma, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. -enchyma as in parenchyma.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Vegetable tissue composed of short cells with thickened or
hardened walls, as in nutshells and the gritty parts of a pear. See
Sclerotic.

Note: By recent german writers and their English translation, this
term is used for liber cells. Goodale.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The hard calcareous deposit in the tissues of Anthozoa,
constituing the stony corals.

SCLERENCHYMATOUS
Scler`en*chym"a*tous, a. (Bot. & Zool.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or composed of, sclerenchyma.

SCLERENCHYME
Scle*ren"chyme, n.

Defn: Sclerenchyma.

SCLERIASIS
Scle*ri"a*sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. gr. (Med.)
(a) A morbid induration of the edge of the eyelid.
(b) Induration of any part, including scleroderma.

SCLERITE
Scle"rite, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A hard chitinous or calcareous process or corpuscle, especially
a spicule of the Alcyonaria.

SCLERITIS
Scle*ri"tis, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: See Sclerottis.

SCLEROBASE
Scler"o*base ( or ), n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: The calcareous or hornlike coral forming the central stem or
axis of most compound alcyonarians; -- called also foot secretion.
See Illust. under Gorgoniacea, and Coenenchyma.
 -- Scler`o*ba"sic, a.

SCLERODERM
Scler"o*derm ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [Gr. scleroderme.]
(a) (Zool.) One of a tribe of plectognath fishes (Sclerodermi) having
the skin covered with hard scales, or plates, as the cowfish and the
trunkfish.
(b) One of the Sclerodermata.
(c) Hardened, or bony, integument of various animals.

SCLERODERMA
Scler`o*der"ma, n. Etym: [NL.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease of adults, characterized by a diffuse rigidity and
hardness of the skin.

SCLERODERMATA
Scler`o*der"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: The stony corals; the Madreporaria.

SCLERODERMIC; SCLERODERMOUS
Scler`o*der"mic, Scler`o*der"mous, (Zool.)
(a) Having the integument, or skin, hard, or covered with hard
plates.
(b) Of or pertaining to the Sclerodermata.

SCLERODERMITE
Scler`o*der"mite, n. (Zool.)
(a) The hard integument of Crustacea.
(b) Sclerenchyma.

SCLEROGEN
Scler"o*gen ( or ), n. Etym: [Gr. sklhro`s hard + -gen.] (Bot.)

Defn: The thickening matter of woody cells; lignin.

SCLEROGENOUS
Scle*rog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Gr. sklhro`s hard + -genous.] (Anat.)

Defn: Making or secreting a hard substance; becoming hard.

SCLEROID
Scle"roid, a. Etym: [Gr. sklhro`s hard + (Bot.)

Defn: Having a hard texture, as nutshells.

SCLEROMA
Scle*ro"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. sklhro`s hard + -oma.] (Med.)

Defn: Induration of the tissues. See Sclerma, Scleroderma, and
Sclerosis.

SCLEROMETER
Scle*rom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. sklhro`s hard + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for determining with accuracy the degree of
hardness of a mineral.

SCLEROSED
Scle*rosed", a.

Defn: Affected with sclerosis.

SCLEROSIS
Scle*ro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (sklhro`s hard.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Induration; hardening; especially, that form of induration
produced in an organ by increase of its interstitial connective
tissue.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Hardening of the cell wall by lignification. Cerebro-spinal
sclerosis (Med.), an affection in which patches of hardening,
produced by increase of the neuroglia and atrophy of the true nerve
tissue, are found scattered throughout the brain and spinal cord. It
is associated with complete or partial paralysis, a peculiar jerking
tremor of the muscles, headache, and vertigo, and is usually fatal.
Called also multiple, disseminated, or insular, sclerosis.

SCLEROSKELETON
Scle`ro*skel"e*ton, n. Etym: [Gr. skeleton.] (Anat.)

Defn: That part of the skeleton which is developed in tendons,
ligaments, and aponeuroses.

SCLEROTAL
Scle*ro"tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Sclerotic.
 -- n.

Defn: The optic capsule; the sclerotic coat of the eye. Owen.

SCLEROTIC
Scle*rot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. sclerotique.]

1. Hard; firm; indurated; -- applied especially in anatomy to the
firm outer coat of the eyeball, which is often cartilaginous and
sometimes bony.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sclerotic coat of the eye; sclerotical.

3. (Med.) Affected with sclerosis; sclerosed. Sclerotic parenchyma
(Bot.), sclerenchyma. By some writers a distinction is made,
sclerotic parenchyma being applied to tissue composed of cells with
the walls hardened but not thickened, and sclerenchyma to tissue
composed of cells with the walls both hardened and thickened.

SCLEROTIC
Scle*rot"ic, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sclerotique.] (Anat.)

Defn: The sclerotic coat of the eye. See Illust. of Eye (d).

SCLEROTIC
Scle*rot"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, an acid obtained from ergot or
the sclerotium of a fungus growing on rye.

SCLEROTICAL
Scle*rot"ic*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Sclerotic.

SCLEROTITIS
Scler`o*ti"tis, n. Etym: [NL. See Sclerotic, and -rris.] (Med.)

Defn: Inflammation of the sclerotic coat.

SCLEROTIUM
Scle*ro"ti*um, n.; pl. Sclerotia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A hardened body formed by certain fungi, as by the Claviceps
purpurea, which produced ergot.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The nature or resting stage of a plasmodium.

SCLEROTOME
Scler"o*tome ( or ), n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the bony, cartilaginous, or membranous partitoins which
separate the myotomes.
 -- Scler`o*tom"ic, a.

SCLEROUS
Scle"rous, a. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: Hard; indurated; sclerotic.

SCOAT
Scoat, v. t.

Defn: To prop; to scotch. [Prov. Eng.]

SCOBBY
Scob"by, n.

Defn: The chaffinch. [Prov. Eng.]

SCOBIFORM
Scob"i*form, a. Etym: [L. scobs, or scobis, sawdust, scrapings + -
form: cf. F. scobiforme.]

Defn: Having the form of, or resembling, sawdust or raspings.

SCOBS
Scobs, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [L. scobs, or scobis, fr. scabere to
scrape.]

1. Raspings of ivory, hartshorn, metals, or other hard substance.
Chambers.

2. The dross of metals.

SCOFF
Scoff, n. Etym: [OE. scof; akin to OFries. schof, OHG. scoph, Icel.
skaup, and perh. to E. shove.]

1. Derision; ridicule; mockery; derisive or mocking expression of
scorn, contempt, or reproach.
With scoffs, and scorns, and contumelious taunts. Shak.

2. An object of scorn, mockery, or derision.
The scoff of withered age and beardless youth. Cowper.

SCOFF
Scoff, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scoffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scoffing.] Etym:
[Cf. Dan. skuffe to deceive, delude, Icel. skopa to scoff, OD.
schoppen. See Scoff, n.]

Defn: To show insolent ridicule or mockery; to manifest contempt by
derisive acts or language; -- often with at.
Thuth from his lips prevailed with double sway, And fools who came to
scoff, remained to pray. Goldsmith.

Syn.
 -- To sneer; mock; gibe; jeer. See Sneer.

SCOFF
Scoff, v. t.

Defn: To treat or address with derision; to assail scornfully; to
mock at.
To scoff religion is ridiculously proud and immodest. Glanwill.

SCOFFER
Scoff"er, n.

Defn: One who scoffs. 2 Pet. iii. 3.

SCOFFERY
Scoff"er*y, n.

Defn: The act of scoffing; scoffing conduct; mockery. Holinshed.

SCOFFINGLY
Scoff"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scoffing manner. Broome.

SCOKE
Scoke, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Poke (Phytolacca decandra).

SCOLAY
Sco*lay", v. i.

Defn: See Scoley. [Obs.]

SCOLD
Scold, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scolded; p. pr. & vb. n. Scolding.] Etym:
[Akin to D. schelden, G. schelten, OHG. sceltan, Dan. skielde.]

Defn: To find fault or rail with rude clamor; to brawl; to utter
harsh, rude, boisterous rebuke; to chide sharply or coarsely; --
often with at; as, to scold at a servant.
Pardon me, lords, 't is the first time ever I was forced to scold.
Shak.

SCOLD
Scold, v. t.

Defn: To chide with rudeness and clamor; to rate; also, to rebuke or
reprove with severity.

SCOLD
Scold, n.

1. One who scolds, or makes a practice of scolding; esp., a rude,
clamorous woman; a shrew.
She is an irksome, brawling scold. Shak.

2. A scolding; a brawl.

SCOLDER
Scold"er, n.

1. One who scolds.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The oyster catcher; -- so called from its shrill cries.
(b) The old squaw. [Local U.S.]

SCOLDING
Scold"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Scold, v. Scolding bridle, an iron frame. See
Brank, n., 2.

SCOLDINGLY
Scold"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scolding manner.

SCOLE
Scole, n.

Defn: School. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SCOLECIDA
Sco*le"ci*da ( or ), n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Scolex.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Helminthes.

SCOLECITE
Scol"e*cite ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A zeolitic mineral occuring in delicate radiating groups of
white crystals. It is a hydrous silicate of aluminia and lime. Called
also lime mesotype.

SCOLECOMORPHA
Sco*le`co*mor"pha (, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Solex, -morphous.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scolecida.

SCOLEX
Sco"lex, n.; pl. Scoleces. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)
(a) The embryo produced directly from the egg in a metagenetic
series, especially the larva of a tapeworm or other parasitic worm.
See Illust. of Echinococcus.
(b) One of the Scolecida.

SCOLEY
Sco*ley", v. i. Etym: [Cf. OF. escoler to teach. See School.]

Defn: To go to school; to study. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SCOLIOSIS
Sco`li*o"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A lateral curvature of the spine.

SCOLITHUS
Scol"i*thus ( or ), n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A tubular structure found in Potsdam sandstone, and believed to
be the fossil burrow of a marine worm.

SCOLLOP
Scol"lop, n. & v.

Defn: See Scallop.

SCOLOPACINE
Scol`o*pa"cine, a. Etym: [L. scolopax a snipe, Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Scolopacid?, or Snipe family.

SCOLOPENDRA
Scol`o*pen"dra, n. Etym: [L., a kind of multiped, fr. Gr.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of venomous myriapods including the centipeds. See
Centiped.

2. A sea fish. [R.] Spenser.

SCOLOPENDRINE
Scol`o*pen"drine, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Scolopendra.

SCOLYTID
Scol"y*tid, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small bark-boring beetles of the
genus Scolytus and allied genera. Also used adjectively.

SCOMBER
Scom"ber, n. Etym: [L., a mackerel, Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of acanthopterygious fishes which includes the common
mackerel.

SCOMBEROID
Scom"ber*oid, a. & n. Etym: [Cf. F. scomneroide.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scombroid.

SCOMBRIFORMES
Scom`bri*for"mes, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of fishes including the mackerels, tunnies, and
allied fishes.

SCOMBROID
Scom"broid, a. Etym: [Scomber + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the Mackerel family.
 -- n.

Defn: Any fish of the family Scombrid?, of which the mackerel
(Scomber) is the type.

SCOMFISH
Scom"fish ( or ), v. t. & i.

Defn: To suffocate or stifle; to smother. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

SCOMFIT
Scom"fit, n. & v.

Defn: Discomfit. [Obs.]

SCOMM
Scomm, n. Etym: [L. scomma a taunt, jeer, scoff, Gr.

1. A bufoon. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

2. A flout; a jeer; a gibe; a taunt. [Obs.] Fortherby.

SCONCE
Sconce, n. Etym: [D. schans, OD. schantse, perhaps from OF. esconse a
hiding place, akin to esconser to hide, L. absconsus, p. p. of
abscondere. See Abscond, and cf. Ensconce, Sconce a candlestick.]

1. A fortification, or work for defense; a fort.
No sconce or fortress of his raising was ever known either to have
been forced, or yielded up, or quitted. Milton.

2. A hut for protection and shelter; a stall.
One that . . . must raise a sconce by the highway and sell switches.
Beau. & Fl.

3. A piece of armor for the head; headpiece; helmet.
I must get a sconce for my head. Shak.

4. Fig.: The head; the skull; also, brains; sense; discretion.
[Colloq.]
To knock him about the sconce with a dirty shovel. Shak.

5. A poll tax; a mulct or fine. Johnson.

6. Etym: [OF. esconse a dark lantern, properly, a hiding place. See
Etymol. above.]

Defn: A protection for a light; a lantern or cased support for a
candle; hence, a fixed hanging or projecting candlestick.
Tapers put into lanterns or sconces of several-colored, oiled paper,
that the wind might not annoy them. Evelyn.
Golden sconces hang not on the walls. Dryden.

7. Hence, the circular tube, with a brim, in a candlestick, into
which the candle is inserted.

8. (Arch.)

Defn: A squinch.

9. A fragment of a floe of ice. Kane.

10. Etym: [Perhaps a different word.]

Defn: A fixed seat or shelf. [Prov. Eng.]

SCONCE
Sconce, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sconced; p. pr. & vb. n. Sconcing.]

1. To shut up in a sconce; to imprison; to insconce. [Obs.]
Immure him, sconce him, barricade him in 't. Marston.

2. To mulct; to fine. [Obs.] Milton.

SCONCHEON
Scon"cheon, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A squinch.

SCONE
Scone, n.

Defn: A cake, thinner than a bannock, made of wheat or barley or oat
meal. [Written variously, scon, skone, skon, etc.] [Scot.] Burns.

SCOOP
Scoop, n. Etym: [OE. scope, of Scand. origin; cf. Sw. skopa, akin to
D. schop a shovel, G. schuppe, and also to E. shove. See Shovel.]

1. A large ladle; a vessel with a long handle, used for dipping
liquids; a utensil for bailing boats.

2. A deep shovel, or any similar implement for digging out and
dipping or shoveling up anything; as, a flour scoop; the scoop of a
dredging machine.

3. (Surg.)

Defn: A spoon-shaped instrument, used in extracting certain
substances or foreign bodies.

4. A place hollowed out; a basinlike cavity; a hollow.
Some had lain in the scoop of the rock. J. R. Drake.

5. A sweep; a stroke; a swoop.

6. The act of scooping, or taking with a scoop or ladle; a motion
with a scoop, as in dipping or shoveling. Scoop net, a kind of hand
net, used in fishing; also, a net for sweeping the bottom of a river.
 -- Scoop wheel, a wheel for raising water, having scoops or buckets
attached to its circumference; a tympanum.

SCOOP
Scoop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scooped; p. pr. & vb. n. Scooping.] Etym:
[OE. scopen. See Scoop, n.]

1. To take out or up with, a scoop; to lade out.
He scooped the water from the crystal flood. Dryden.

2. To empty by lading; as, to scoop a well dry.

3. To make hollow, as a scoop or dish; to excavate; to dig out; to
form by digging or excavation.
Those carbuncles the Indians will scoop, so as to hold above a pint.
Arbuthnot.

SCOOPER
Scoop"er, n.

1. One who, or that which scoops.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The avocet; -- so called because it scoops up the mud to obtain
food.

SCOOT
Scoot, v. i.

Defn: To walk fast; to go quickly; to run hastily away. [Colloq. &
Humorous, U.S.]

SCOPARIN
Sco"pa*rin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A yellow gelatinous or crystalline substance found in broom
(Cytisus scoparius) accompanying sparteine.

SCOPATE
Sco"pate, a. Etym: [L. scopae, scopa, a broom.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having the surface closely covered with hairs, like a brush.

-SCOPE
-scope (. Etym: [Gr. skopo`s a watcher, spy. See Scope.]

Defn: A combining form usually signifying an instrument for viewing
(with the eye) or observing (in any way); as in microscope,
telescope, altoscope, anemoscope.

SCOPE
Scope, n. Etym: [It. scopo, L. scopos a mark, aim, Gr. skopo`s, a
watcher, mark, aim; akin to spy. Cf. Skeptic, Bishop.]

1. That at which one aims; the thing or end to which the mind directs
its view; that which is purposed to be reached or accomplished;
hence, ultimate design, aim, or purpose; intention; drift; object.
"Shooting wide, do miss the marked scope." Spenser.
Your scope is as mine own, So to enforce or quality the laws As to
your soul seems good. Shak.
The scope of all their pleading against man's authority, is to
overthrow such laws and constitutions in the church. Hooker.

2. Room or opportunity for free outlook or aim; space for action;
amplitude of opportunity; free course or vent; liberty; range of
view; intent, or action.
Give him line and scope. Shak.
In the fate and fortunes of the human race, scope is given to the
operation of laws which man must always fail to discern the reasons
of. I. Taylor.
Excuse me if I have given too much scope to the reflections which
have arisen in my mind. Burke.
An intellectual cultivation of no moderate depth or scope. Hawthorne.

3. Extended area. [Obs.] "The scopes of land granted to the first
adventurers." Sir J. Davies.

4. Length; extent; sweep; as, scope of cable. v. t. To look at for
the purpose of evaluation; usu with out; as, to scope out the area as
a camping site.

SCOPELINE
Sco"pe*line, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Scopeloid.

SCOPELOID
Sco"pe*loid, a. Etym: [NL. Scopelus, typical genus (fr. Gr. -oid.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to fishes of the genus Scopelus, or family
Scopelod?, which includes many small oceanic fishes, most of which
are phosphorescent.
 -- n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any fish of the family Scopelid?.

SCOPIFEROUS
Sco*pif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. scopae, scopa + -ferous.] (Zool.)

Defn: Bearing a tuft of brushlike hairs.

SCOPIFORM
Sco"pi*form, a. Etym: [L. scopae, scopa, a broom + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a broom or besom. "Zeolite, stelliform or
scopiform." Kirwan.

SCOPIPED
Sco"pi*ped, n. Etym: [L. scopae, scopa, a broom + pes, pedis, a
foot.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scopuliped.

SCOPPET
Scop"pet, v. t. Etym: [From Scoop, v. t.]

Defn: To lade or dip out. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SCOPS OWL
Scops" owl`. Etym: [NL. scops, fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small owls of the genus Scops
having ear tufts like those of the horned owls, especially the
European scops owl (Scops giu), and the American screech owl. (S.
Asio).

SCOPTIC; SCOPTICAL
Scop"tic, Scop"tic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Jesting; jeering; scoffing. [Obs.] South.
 -- Scop"tic*al*ly, adv. [Obs.]

SCOPULA
Scop"u*la, n.; pl. E. Scopulas, L. Scopul?. Etym: [L. scopulae, pl. a
little broom.] (Zool.)
(a) A peculiar brushlike organ found on the foot of spiders and used
in the construction of the web.
(b) A special tuft of hairs on the leg of a bee.

SCOPULIPED
Scop"u*li*ped, n. Etym: [L. scopulae, pl., a little broom (fr. scopae
a broom) + pes, pedis, foot.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of bee which has on the hind legs a brush of hairs
used for collecting pollen, as the hive bees and bumblebees.

SCOPULOUS
Scop"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. scopulosus, fr. scopulus a rock, Gr.

Defn: Full of rocks; rocky. [Obs.]

SCORBUTE
Scor"bute, n. Etym: [LL. scorbutus: cf. F. scorbut. See Scurvy, n.]

Defn: Scurry. [Obs.] Purchas.

SCORBUTIC; SCORBUTICAL
Scor*bu"tic, Scor*bu"tic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. scorbutique.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to scurvy; of the nature of, or resembling,
scurvy; diseased with scurvy; as, a scorbutic person; scorbutic
complaints or symptoms.
 -- Scor*bu"tic*al*ly, adv.

SCORBUTUS
Scor*bu"tus, n. Etym: [LL. See Scorbute.] (Med.)

Defn: Scurvy.

SCORCE
Scorce, n.

Defn: Barter. [Obs.] See Scorse.

SCORCH
Scorch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scorched; p. pr. & vb. n. Scorching.]
Etym: [OE. scorchen, probably akin to scorcnen; cf. Norw. skrokken
shrunk up, skrekka, skrokka, to shrink, to become wrinkled up, dial.
Sw. skrakkla to wrinkle (see Shrug); but perhaps influenced by OF.
escorchier to strip the bark from, to flay, to skin, F. ecorcher, LL.
excorticare; L. ex from + cortex, -icis, bark (cf. Cork); because the
skin falls off when scorched.]

1. To burn superficially; to parch, or shrivel, the surface of, by
heat; to subject to so much heat as changes color and texture without
consuming; as, to scorch linen.
Summer drouth or singed air never scorch thy tresses fair. Milton.

2. To affect painfully with heat, or as with heat; to dry up with
heat; to affect as by heat.
Lashed by mad rage, and scorched by brutal fires. Prior.

3. To burn; to destroy by, or as by, fire.
Power was given unto him to scorch men with fire. Rev. xvi. 8.
The fire that scorches me to death. Dryden.

SCORCH
Scorch, v. i.

1. To be burnt on the surface; to be parched; to be dried up.
Scatter a little mungy straw or fern amongst your seedlings, to
prevent the roots from scorching. Mortimer.

2. To burn or be burnt.
he laid his long forefinger on the scarlet letter, which forthwith
seemed to scoch into Hester's breast, as if it had been red hot.
Hawthorne.

SCORCHING
Scorch"ing, a.

Defn: Burning; parching or shriveling with heat.
 -- Scorch"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Scorch"ing*ness, n.

SCORE
Score, n. Etym: [AS. scor twenty, fr. sceran, scieran, to shear, cut,
divice; or rather the kindred Icel. skor incision, twenty, akin to
Dan. skure a notch, Sw. skara. See Shear.]

1. A notch or incision; especially, one that is made as a tally mark;
hence, a mark, or line, made for the purpose of account.
Whereas, before, our forefathers had no other books but the score and
the tally, thou hast caused printing to be used. Shak.

2. An account or reckoning; account of dues; bill; hence,
indebtedness.
He parted well, and paid his score. Shak.

3. Account; reason; motive; sake; behalf.
But left the trade, as many more Have lately done on the same score.
Hudibras.
You act your kindness in Cydria's score. Dryden.

4. The number twenty, as being marked off by a special score or
tally; hence, in pl., a large number.
Amongst three or four score hogsheads. Shak.
At length the queen took upon herself to grant patents of monopoly by
score. Macaulay.

5. A distance of twenty yards; -- a term used in ancient archery and
gunnery. Halliwell.

6. A weight of twenty pounds. [Prov. Eng.]

7. The number of points gained by the contestants, or either of them,
in any game, as in cards or cricket.

8. line drawn; a groove or furrow.

9. (Mus.)

Defn: The original and entire draught, or its transcript, of a
composition, with the parts for all the different instruments or
voices written on staves one above another, so that they can be read
at a glance; -- so called from the bar, which, in its early use, was
drawn through all the parts. Moore (Encyc. of Music). In score
(Mus.), having all the parts arranged and placed in juxtaposition.
Smart.
 -- To quit scores, to settle or balance accounts; to render an
equivalent; to make compensation.
Does not the earth quit scores with all the elements in the noble
fruits that issue from it South.

SCORE
Score, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scored; p. pr. & vb. n. Scoring.]

1. To mark with lines, scratches, or notches; to cut notches or
furrows in; to notch; to scratch; to furrow; as, to score timber for
hewing; to score the back with a lash.
Let us score their backs. Shak.
A briar in that tangled wilderness Had scored her white right hand.
M. Arnold.

2. Especially, to mark with significant lines or notches, for
indicating or keeping account of something; as, to score a tally.

3. To mark or signify by lines or notches; to keep record or account;
to set down; to record; to charge.
Madam, I know when, Instead of five, you scored me ten. Swift.
Nor need I tallies thy dear love to score. Shak.

4. To engrave, as upon a shield. [R.] Spenser.

5. To make a score of, as points, runs, etc., in a game.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: To write down in proper order and arrangement; as, to score an
overture for an orchestra. See Score, n., 9.

7. (Geol.)

Defn: To mark with parallel lines or scratches; as, the rocks of New
England and the Western States were scored in the drift epoch.

SCORER
Scor"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, scores.

SCORIA
Sco"ri*a, n.; pl. Scorl?. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. The recrement of metals in fusion, or the slag rejected after the
eduction of metallic ores; dross.

2. Cellular slaggy lava; volcanic cinders.

SCORIAC
Sco"ri*ac, a.

Defn: Scoriaceous. E. A. Poe.

SCORIACEOUS
Sco`ri*a"ceous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. scoriace.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to scoria; like scoria or the recrement of
metals; partaking of the nature of scoria.

SCORIE
Sco"rie, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The young of any gull. [Written also scaurie.] [prov. Eng.]

SCORIFICATION
Sco`ri*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. scorification. See Scorify.]
(Chem.)

Defn: The act, process, or result of scorifying, or reducing to a
slag; hence, the separation from earthy matter by means of a slag;
as, the scorification of ores.

SCORIFIER
Sco"ri*fi`er, n. (Chem.)

Defn: One who, or that which, scorifies; specifically, a small flat
bowl-shaped cup used in the first heating in assaying, to remove the
earth and gangue, and to concentrate the gold and silver in a lead
button.

SCORIFORM
Sco"ri*form, a.

Defn: In the form of scoria.

SCORIFY
Sco"ri*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scorified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Scorifying.] Etym: [Scoria + -fy: cf. F. scorifier.] (Chem.)

Defn: To reduce to scoria or slag; specifically, in assaying, to fuse
so as to separate the gangue and earthy material, with borax, lead,
soda, etc., thus leaving the gold and silver in a lead button; hence,
to separate from, or by means of, a slag.

SCORIOUS
Sco"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Scoriaceous. Sir T. Browne.

SCORN
Scorn, n. Etym: [OE. scorn, scarn, scharn, OF. escarn, escharn,
eschar, of German origin; cf. OHG. skern mockery, skern to mock; but
cf. also OF. escorner to mock.]

1. Extreme and lofty contempt; haughty disregard; that disdain which
aprings from the opinion of the utter meanness and unworthiness of an
object.
Scorn at first makes after love the more. Shak.
And wandered backward as in scorn, To wait an ?on to be born.
Emerson.

2. An act or expression of extreme contempt.
Every sullen frown and bitter scorn But fanned the fuel that too fast
did burn. Dryden.

3. An object of extreme disdain, contempt, or derision.
Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and a derision to
them that are round about us. Ps. xliv. 13.
To think scorn, to regard as worthy of scorn or contempt; to disdain.
"He thought scorn to lay hands on Mordecai alone." Esther iii. 6.
 -- To laugh to scorn, to deride; to make a mock of; to redicule as
contemptible.

Syn.
 -- Contempt; disdain; derision; contumely; despite; slight;
dishonor; mockery.

SCORN
Scorn, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scorned; p. pr. & vb. n. Scoring.] Etym:
[OE. scornen, scarnen, schornen, OF. escarning, escharnir. See Scorn,
n.]

1. To hold in extreme contempt; to reject as unworthy of regard; to
despise; to contemn; to disdain.
I scorn thy meat; 't would choke me. Shak.
This my long sufference, and my day of grace, Those who neglect and
scorn shall never taste. Milton.
We scorn what is in itself contemptible or disgraceful. C. J. Smith.

2. To treat with extreme contempt; to make the object of insult; to
mock; to scoff at; to deride.
His fellow, that lay by his bed's side, Gan for to laugh, and scorned
him full fast. Chaucer.
To taunt and scorn you thus opprobriously. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To contemn; despise; disdain. See Contemn.

SCORN
Scorn, v. i.

Defn: To scoff; to act disdainfully.
He said mine eyes were black and my hair black, And, now I
remembered, scorned at me. Shak.

SCORNER
Scorn"er, n.

Defn: One who scorns; a despiser; a contemner; specifically, a
scoffer at religion. "Great scorners of death." Spenser.
Superly he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly.
Prov. iii. 34.

SCORNFUL
Scorn"ful, a.

1. Full of scorn or contempt; contemptuous; disdainful.
Scornful of winter's frost and summer's sun. Prior.
Dart not scornful glances from those eyes. Shak.

2. Treated with scorn; exciting scorn. [Obs.]
The scornful mark of every open eye. Shak.

Syn.
 -- Contemptuous; disdainful; contumelious; reproachful; insolent.
 -- Scorn"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Scorn"ful*ness, n.

SCORNY
Scorn"y, a.

Defn: Deserving scorn; paltry. [Obs.]

SCORODITE
Scor"o*dite, n. Etym: [G. scorodit; -- so called in allusion to its
smell under the blowpipe, from Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A leek-green or brownish mineral occurring in orthorhombic
crystals. It is a hydrous arseniate of iron. [Written also
skorodite.]

SCORPAENOID
Scor*p?"noid, a. Etym: [NL. Scorpaena, a typical genus (see Scorpene)
+ -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family Scorp?nid?, which includes the
scorpene, the rosefish, the California rockfishes, and many other
food fishes. [Written also scorp?nid.] See Illust. under Rockfish.

SCORPENE
Scor"pene, n. Etym: [F. scorpene, fr. L. scorpaena a kind of fish,
Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A marine food fish of the genus Scorp?na, as the European
hogfish (S. scrofa), and the California species (S. guttata).

SCORPER
Scor"per, n.

Defn: Same as Scauper.

SCORPIO
Scor"pi*o, n.; pl. Scorpiones. Etym: [L.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A scorpion.

2. (Astron.)
(a) The eighth sign of the zodiac, which the sun enters about the
twenty-third day of October, marked thus [scorpio] in almanacs.
(b) A constellation of the zodiac containing the bright star Antares.
It is drawn on the celestial globe in the figure of a scorpion.

SCORPIODEA
Scor`pi*o"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scorpiones.

SCORPIOID; SCORPIOIDAL
Scor"pi*oid, Scor`pi*oid"al, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Having the inflorescence curved or circinate at the end, like a
scorpion's tail.

SCORPION
Scor"pi*on, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. scorpio, scorpius, Gr. sharp.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of pulmonate arachnids of the order
scorpiones, having a suctorial mouth, large claw-bearing palpi, and a
caudal sting.

Note: Scorpions have a flattened body, and a long, slender post-
abdomen formed of six movable segments, the last of which terminates
in a curved venomous sting. The venom causes great pain, but is
unattended either with redness or swelling, except in the axillary or
inguinal glands, when an extremity is affected. It is seldom if ever
destructive of life. Scorpions are found widely dispersed in the warm
climates of both the Old and New Worlds.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The pine or gray lizard (Sceloporus undulatus). [Local, U.S.]

3. (Zool.)

Defn: the scorpene.

4. (Script.)

Defn: A painful scourge.
My father hath chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with
scorpions. 1 Kings xii. 11.

5. (Astron.)

Defn: A sign and constellation. See Scorpio.

6. (Antiq.)

Defn: An ancient military engine for hurling stones and other
missiles. Book scorpion. (Zool.) See under Book.
 -- False scorpion. (Zool.) See under False, and Book scorpion.
 -- Scorpion bug, or Water scorpion (Zool.) See Nepa.
 -- Scorpion fly (Zool.), a neuropterous insect of the genus Panorpa.
See Panorpid.
 -- Scorpion grass (Bot.), a plant of the genus Myosotis. M.
palustris is the forget-me-not.
 -- Sorpion senna (Bot.), a yellow-flowered leguminous shrub
(Coronilla Emerus) having a slender joined pod, like a scorpion's
tail. The leaves are said to yield a dye like indigo, and to be used
sometimes to adulterate senna.
 -- Scorpion shell (Zool.), any shell of the genus Pteroceras. See
Pteroceras.
 -- Scorpion spiders. (Zool.), any one of the Pedipalpi.
 -- Scorpion's tail (Bot.), any plant of the leguminous genus
Scorpiurus, herbs with a circinately coiled pod; -- also called
caterpillar.
 -- Scorpion's thorn (Bot.), a thorny leguminous plant (Genista
Scorpius) of Southern Europe.
 -- The Scorpion's Heart (Astron.), the star Antares in the
constellation Scorpio.

SCORPIONES
Scor`pi*o"nes, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of arachnids comprising the scorpions.

SCORPIONIDEA
Scor`pi*o*nid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scorpiones.

SCORPIONWORT
Scor"pi*on*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous plant (Ornithopus scorpides) of Southern Europe,
having curved pods.

SCORSE
Scorse ( or ), n. Etym: [Cf. It. scorsa a course, and E. discourse.]

Defn: Barter; exchange; trade. [Obs.]
And recompensed them with a better scorse. Spenser.

SCORSE
Scorse, v. t. Etym: [Written also scourse, and scoss.]

1. To barter or exchange. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To chase. [Obs.] Spenser.

SCORSE
Scorse, v. i.

Defn: To deal for the purchase of anything; to practice barter.
[Obs.] B. Jonson.

SCORTATORY
Scor"ta*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. scorator a fornicator, from scortari to
fornicate, scortum a prostitute.]

Defn: Pertaining to lewdness or fornication; lewd.

SCOT
Scot, n.

Defn: A name for a horse. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SCOT
Scot, n. Etym: [Cf. L. Skoti, pl., AS. Scotta, pl. Skottas,
Sceottas.]

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Scotland; a Scotsman, or Scotchman.

SCOT
Scot, n. Etym: [Icel. skot; or OF. escot, F. ecot, LL. scottum,
scotum, from a kindred German word; akin to AS. scot, and E. shot,
shoot; cf. AS. sceotan to shoot, to contribute. See Shoot, and cf.
Shot.]

Defn: A portion of money assessed or paid; a tax or contribution; a
mulct; a fine; a shot. Scot and lot, formerly, a parish assessment
laid on subjects according to their ability. [Eng.] Cowell. Now, a
phrase for obligations of every kind regarded collectivelly.
Experienced men of the world know very well that it is best to pay
scot and lot as they go along. Emerson.

SCOTAL; SCOTALE
Scot"al, Scot"ale, n. Etym: [Scot + ale.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: The keeping of an alehouse by an officer of a forest, and
drawing people to spend their money for liquor, for fear of his
displeasure.

SCOTCH
Scotch, a. Etym: [Cf. Scottish.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Scotland, its language, or its inhabitants;
Scottish. Scotch broom (Bot.), the Cytisus scoparius. See Broom.
 -- Scotch dipper, or Scotch duck (Zool.), the bufflehead; -- called
also Scotch teal, and Scotchman.
 -- Scotch fiddle, the itch. [Low] Sir W. Scott.
 -- Scotch mist, a coarse, dense mist, like fine rain.
 -- Scotch nightingale (Zool.), the sedge warbler. [Prov. Eng.] --
Scotch pebble. See under pebble.
 -- Scotch pine (Bot.) See Riga fir.
 -- Scotch thistle (Bot.), a species of thistle (Onopordon
acanthium); -- so called from its being the national emblem of the
Scotch.

SCOTCH
Scotch, n.

1. The dialect or dialects of English spoken by the people of
Scotland.

2. Collectively, the people of Scotland.

SCOTCH
Scotch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scotched; p. pr. & vb. n. Scotching.]
Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. scole a prop, and Walloon ascot a prop, ascoter
to prop, F. accoter, also Armor. skoaz the shoulder, skoazia to
shoulder up, to prop, to support, W. ysgwydd a shoulder, ysgwyddo to
shoulder. Cf. Scoat.] [Written also scoatch, scoat.]

Defn: To shoulder up; to prop or block with a wedge, chock, etc., as
a wheel, to prevent its rolling or slipping.

SCOTCH
Scotch, n.

Defn: A chock, wedge, prop, or other support, to prevent slipping;
as, a scotch for a wheel or a log on inclined ground.

SCOTCH
Scotch, v. t. Etym: [Probably the same word as scutch; cf. Norw.
skoka, skoko, a swingle for flax; perhaps akin to E. shake.]

Defn: To cut superficially; to wound; to score.
We have scotched the snake, not killed it. Shak.
Scotched collops (Cookery), a dish made of pieces of beef or veal cut
thin, or minced, beaten flat, and stewed with onion and other
condiments; -- called also Scotch collops. [Written also scotcht
collops.]

SCOTCH
Scotch, n.

Defn: A slight cut or incision; a score. Walton.

SCOTCH-HOPPER
Scotch"-hop`per, n.

Defn: Hopscotch.

SCOTCHING
Scotch"ing, n. (Masonry)

Defn: Dressing stone with a pick or pointed instrument.

SCOTCHMAN
Scotch"man, n.; pl. Scotchmen (.

1. A native or inhabitant of Scotland; a Scot; a Scotsman.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of wood or stiff hide placed over shrouds and other
rigging to prevent chafe by the running gear. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

SCOTCH RITE
Scotch rite. (Freemasonry)

Defn: The ceremonial observed by one of the Masonic systems, called
in full the Ancient and Accepted Scotch Rite; also, the system
itself, which confers thirty-three degrees, of which the first three
are nearly identical with those of the York rite.

SCOTCH TERRIER
Scotch terrier. (Zool.)

Defn: One of a breed of small terriers with long, rough hair.

SCOTER
Sco"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. scote to plow up.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of northern sea ducks of the genus
Oidemia.

Note: The European scoters are Oidemia nigra, called also black duck,
black diver, surf duck; and the velvet, or double, scoter (O. fusca).
The common American species are the velvet, or white-winged, scoter
(O. Deglandi), called also velvet duck, white-wing, bull coot, white-
winged coot; the black scoter (O. Americana), called also black coot,
butterbill, coppernose; and the surf scoter, or surf duck (O.
perspicillata), called also baldpate, skunkhead, horsehead,
patchhead, pishaug, and spectacled coot. These birds are collectively
called also coots. The females and young are called gray coots, and
brown coots.

SCOT-FREE
Scot"-free" [], a.

Defn: Free from payment of scot; untaxed; hence, unhurt; clear; safe.
Do as much for this purpose, and thou shalt pass scot-free. Sir W.
Scott.
Then young Hay escaped scot-free to Holland. A. Lang.

SCOTH
Scoth, v. t.

Defn: To clothe or cover up. [Obs.]

SCOTH
Scoth, v. t.

Defn: To clothe or cover up. [Obs.]

SCOTIA
Sco"ti*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. skoti`a darkness, a sunken molding in
the base of a pillar, so called from the dark shadow it casts, from
sko`tos darkness.] (Arch.)

Defn: A concave molding used especially in classical architecture.

SCOTIA
Sco"ti*a, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Scotland [Poetic]
O Scotia! my dear, my native soil! Burns.

SCOTIST
Sco"tist, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of (Joannes) Duns Scotus, the Franciscan scholastic
(d. 1308), who maintained certain doctrines in philosophy and
theology, in opposition to the Thomists, or followers of Thomas
Aquinas, the Dominican scholastic.

SCOTOGRAPH
Scot"o*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. sko`tos darkness + -graph.]

Defn: An instrument for writing in the dark, or without seeing.
Maunder.

SCOTOMA
Sco*to"ma, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Scotomy.

SCOTOMY
Scot"o*my, n. Etym: [NL. scotomia, from Gr. sko`tos darkness: cf. F.
scotomie.]

1. Dizziness with dimness of sight. [Obs.] Massinger.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Obscuration of the field of vision due to the appearance of a
dark spot before the eye.

SCOTOSCOPE
Sco"to*scope ( or ), n. Etym: [Gr. sko`tos darkness + -scope.]

Defn: An instrument that discloses objects in the dark or in a faint
light. [Obs.] Pepys.

SCOTS
Scots, a. Etym: [For older Scottis Scottish. See Scottish.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Scotch; Scotch; Scottish; as, Scots
law; a pound Scots (1s. 8d.).

SCOTSMAN
Scots"man (-man), n.

Defn: See Scotchman.

SCOTTERING
Scot"ter*ing, n.

Defn: The burning of a wad of pease straw at the end of harvest.
[Prov. Eng.]

SCOTTICISM
Scot"ti*cism, n.

Defn: An idiom, or mode of expression, peculiar to Scotland or
Scotchmen.
That, in short, in which the Scotticism of Scotsmen most intimately
consists, is the habit of emphasis. Masson.

SCOTTICIZE
Scot"ti*cize, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become like the Scotch; to make Scottish. [R.]

SCOTTISH
Scot"tish, a. Etym: [From Scot a Scotchman: cf. AS. Scyttisc, and E.
Scotch, a., Scots, a.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the inhabitants of Scotland, their country,
or their language; as, Scottish industry or economy; a Scottish
chief; a Scottish dialect.

SCOTTISH TERRIER
Scot"tish ter"ri*er. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scotch terrier.

SCOUNDREL
Scoun"drel, n. Etym: [Probably from Prov. E. & Scotch scunner,
scouner, to loathe, to disgust, akin to AS. scunian to shun. See
Shun.]

Defn: A mean, worthless fellow; a rascal; a villain; a man without
honor or virtue.
Go, if your ancient, but ignoble blood
Has crept through soundrels ever since the flood. Pope.

SCOUNDREL
Scoun"drel, a.

Defn: Low; base; mean; unprincipled.

SCOUNDRELDOM
Scoun"drel*dom, n.

Defn: The domain or sphere of scoundrels; scoundrels, collectively;
the state, ideas, or practices of scoundrels. Carlyle.

SCOUNDRELISM
Scoun"drel*ism, n.

Defn: The practices or conduct of a scoundrel; baseness; rascality.
Cotgrave.

SCOUR
Scour, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scoured; p. pr. & vb. n. Scouring.] Etym:
[Akin to LG. schuren, D. schuren, schueren, G. scheuern, Dan. skure;
Sw. skura; all possibly fr. LL. escurare, fr. L. ex + curare to take
care. Cf. Cure.]

1. To rub hard with something rough, as sand or Bristol brick,
especially for the purpose of cleaning; to clean by friction; to make
clean or bright; to cleanse from grease, dirt, etc., as articles of
dress.

2. To purge; as, to scour a horse.

3. To remove by rubbing or cleansing; to sweep along or off; to carry
away or remove, as by a current of water; -- often with off or away.
[I will] stain my favors in a bloody mask, Which, washed away, shall
scour my shame with it. Shak.

4. Etym: [Perhaps a different word; cf. OF. escorre, escourre, It.
scorrere, both fr. L. excurrere to run forth. Cf. Excursion.]

Defn: To pass swiftly over; to brush along; to traverse or search
thoroughly; as, to scour the coast.
Not so when swift Camilla scours the plain. Pope.
Scouring barrel, a tumbling barrel. See under Tumbling.
 -- Scouring cinder (Metal.), a basic slag, which attacks the lining
of a shaft furnace. Raymond.
 -- Scouring rush. (Bot.) See Dutch rush, under Dutch.
 -- Scouring stock (Woolen Manuf.), a kind of fulling mill.

SCOUR
Scour, v. i.

1. To clean anything by rubbing. Shak.

2. To cleanse anything.
Warm water is softer than cold, for it scoureth better. Bacon.

3. To be purged freely; to have a diarrhoea.

4. To run swiftly; to rove or range in pursuit or search of
something; to scamper.
So four fierce coursers, starting to the race, Scour through the
plain, and lengthen every pace. Dryden.

SCOUR
Scour, n.

Defn: Diarrhoea or dysentery among cattle.

SCOURAGE
Scour"age (; 48), n.

Defn: Refuse water after scouring.

SCOURER
Scour"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, scours.

2. A rover or footpad; a prowling robber.
In those days of highwaymen and scourers. Macaulay.

SCOURGE
Scourge, n. Etym: [F. escourgee, fr. L. excoriata (sc. scutica) a
stripped off (lash or whip), fr. excoriate to strip, to skin. See
Excoriate.]

1. A lash; a strap or cord; especially, a lash used to inflict pain
or punishment; an instrument of punishment or discipline; a whip.
Up to coach then goes The observed maid, takes both the scourge and
reins. Chapman.

2. Hence, a means of inflicting punishment, vengeance, or suffering;
an infliction of affliction; a punishment.
Sharp scourges of adversity. Chaucer.
What scourge for perjury Can this dark monarchy afford false Clarence
Shak.

SCOURGE
Scourge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scourged; p. pr. & vb. n. Scourging.]
Etym: [From Scourge, n.: cf. OF. escorgier.]

1. To whip severely; to lash.
is it lawful for you to scourge a . . . Roman Acts xxii. 25.

2. To punish with severity; to chastise; to afflict, as for sins or
faults, and with the purpose of correction.
Whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he
receiveth. Heb. xii. 6.

3. To harass or afflict severely.
To scourge and impoverish the people. Brougham.

SCOURGER
Scour"ger, n.

Defn: One who scourges or punishes; one who afflicts severely.
The West must own the scourger of the world. Byron.

SCOURSE
Scourse, v. t.

Defn: See Scorse. [Obs.]

SCOUSE
Scouse, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A sailor's dish. Bread scouse contains no meat; lobscouse
contains meat, etc. See Lobscouse. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

SCOUT
Scout, n. Etym: [Icel. sk a small craft or cutter.]

Defn: A swift sailing boat. [Obs.]
So we took a scout, very much pleased with the manner and
conversation of the passengers. Pepys.

SCOUT
Scout, n. Etym: [Icel. skuta to jut out. Cf. Scout to reject.]

Defn: A projecting rock. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

SCOUT
Scout, v. t. Etym: [Icel. sk a taunt; cf. Icel. skuta to jut out,
skota to shove, skj to shoot, to shove. See Shoot.]

Defn: To reject with contempt, as something absurd; to treat with
ridicule; to flout; as, to scout an idea or an apology. "Flout 'em
and scout 'em." Shak.

SCOUT
Scout, n. Etym: [OF. escaute scout, spy, fr. escouter, escolter, to
listen, to hear, F. ecouter, fr. L. auscultare, to hear with
attention, to listen to. See Auscultation.]

1. A person sent out to gain and bring in tidings; especially, one
employed in war to gain information of the movements and condition of
an enemy.
Scouts each coast light-armed scour, Each quarter, to descry the
distant foe. Milton.

2. A college student's or undergraduate's servant; -- so called in
Oxford, England; at Cambridge called a gyp; and at Dublin, a skip.
[Cant]

3. (Criket)

Defn: A fielder in a game for practice.

4. The act of scouting or reconnoitering. [Colloq.]
While the rat is on the scout. Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Scout, Spy.
 -- In a military sense a scout is a soldier who does duty in his
proper uniform, however hazardous his adventure. A spy is one who in
disguise penetrates the enemies' lines, or lurks near them, to obtain
information.

SCOUT
Scout, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scouted; p. pr. & vb. n. Scouting.]

1. To observe, watch, or look for, as a scout; to follow for the
purpose of observation, as a scout.
Take more men, And scout him round. Beau. & Fl.

2. To pass over or through, as a scout; to reconnoiter; as, to scout
a country.

SCOUT
Scout, v. i.

Defn: To go on the business of scouting, or watching the motions of
an enemy; to act as a scout.
With obscure wing Scout far and wide into the realm of night. Milton.

SCOVEL
Scov"el, n. Etym: [OF. escouve, escouvette, broom, L. scopae, or cf.
W. ysgubell, dim. of ysgub a broom.]

Defn: A mop for sweeping ovens; a malkin.

SCOW
Scow, n. Etym: [D. schouw.] (Naut.)

Defn: A large flat-bottomed boat, having broad, square ends.

SCOW
Scow, v. t.

Defn: To transport in a scow.

SCOWL
Scowl, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scowled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scowling.] Etym:
[Akin to Dan. skule; cf. Icel. skolla to skulk, LG. schulen to hide
one's self, D. schuilen, G. schielen to squint, Dan. skele, Sw.
skela, AS. sceolh squinting. Cf. Skulk.]

1. To wrinkle the brows, as in frowning or displeasure; to put on a
frowning look; to look sour, sullen, severe, or angry.
She scowled and frowned with froward countenance. Spenser.

2. Hence, to look gloomy, dark, or threatening; to lower. "The
scowling heavens." Thomson.

SCOWL
Scowl, v. t.

1. To look at or repel with a scowl or a frown. Milton.

2. To express by a scowl; as, to scowl defiance.

SCOWL
Scowl, n.

1. The wrinkling of the brows or face in frowing; the expression of
displeasure, sullennes, or discontent in the countenance; an angry
frown.
With solemn phiz, and critic scowl. Lloyd.

2. Hence, gloom; dark or threatening aspect. Burns.
A ruddy storm, whose scowl Made heaven's radiant face look foul.
Crashaw.

SCOWLINGLY
Scowl"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scowling manner.

SCRABBED EGGS
Scrab"bed eggs`. Etym: [CF. Scramble.]

Defn: A Lenten dish, composed of eggs boiled hard, chopped, and
seasoned with butter, salt, and pepper. Halliwell.

SCRABBLE
Scrab"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scrabbled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Scrabbling.] Etym: [Freq. of scrape. Cf. Scramble, Scrawl, v. t.]

1. To scrape, paw, or scratch with the hands; to proceed by clawing
with the hands and feet; to scramble; as, to scrabble up a cliff or a
tree.
Now after a while Little-faith came to himself, and getting up made
shift to scrabble on his way. Bunyan.

2. To make irregular, crooked, or unmeaning marks; to scribble; to
scrawl.
David . . . scrabbled on the doors of the gate. 1. Sam. xxi. 13.

SCRABBLE
Scrab"ble, v. t.

Defn: To mark with irregular lines or letters; to scribble; as, to
scrabble paper.

SCRABBLE
Scrab"ble, n.

Defn: The act of scrabbing; a moving upon the hands and knees; a
scramble; also, a scribble.

SCRABER
Scra"ber, n. Etym: [Cf. Scrabble.] (Zool.)
(a) The Manx shearwater.
(b) The black guillemot.

SCRAFFLE
Scraf"fle, v. i. Etym: [See Scramble: cf. OD. schraeffelen to
scrape.]

Defn: To scramble or struggle; to wrangle; also, to be industrious.
[Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SCRAG
Scrag, n. Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. skraka a great dry tree, a long, lean
man, Gael. sgreagach dry, shriveled, rocky. See Shrink, and cf.
Scrog, Shrag, n.]

1. Something thin, lean, or rough; a bony piece; especially, a bony
neckpiece of meat; hence, humorously or in contempt, the neck.
Lady MacScrew, who . . . serves up a scrag of mutton on silver.
Thackeray.

2. A rawboned person. [Low] Halliwell.

3. A ragged, stunted tree or branch. Scrag whale (Zool.), a North
Atlantic whalebone whale (Agaphelus giddosus). By some it is
considered the young of the right whale.

SCRAGGED
Scrag"ged, a.

1. Rough with irregular points, or a broken surface; scraggy; as, a
scragged backbone.

2. Lean and rough; scraggy.

SCRAGGEDNESS
Scrag"ged*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being scragged.

SCRAGGILY
Scrag"gi*ly, adv.

Defn: in a scraggy manner.

SCRAGGINESS
Scrag"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being scraggy; scraggedness.

SCRAGGY
Scrag"gy, a. [Compar. Scragger; superl. Scraggiest.]

1. Rough with irregular points; scragged. "A scraggy rock." J.
Philips.

2. Lean and rough; scragged. "His sinewy, scraggy neck." Sir W.
Scott.

SCRAGLY
Scrag"ly, a.

Defn: See Scraggy.

SCRAG-NECKED
Scrag"-necked`, a.

Defn: Having a scraggy neck.

SCRAMBLE
Scram"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scrambled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Scrambling.] Etym: [Freq. of Prov. E. scramb to rake together with
the hands, or of scramp to snatch at. cf. Scrabble.]

1. To clamber with hands and knees; to scrabble; as, to scramble up a
cliff; to scramble over the rocks.

2. To struggle eagerly with others for something thrown upon the
ground; to go down upon all fours to seize something; to catch rudely
at what is desired.
Of other care they little reckoning make, Than how to scramble at the
shearer's feast. Milton.

SCRAMBLE
Scram"ble, v. t.

1. To collect by scrambling; as, to scramble up wealth. Marlowe.

2. To prepare (eggs) as a dish for the table, by stirring the yolks
and whites together while cooking.

SCRAMBLE
Scram"ble, n.

1. The act of scrambling, climbing on all fours, or clambering.

2. The act of jostling and pushing for something desired; eager and
unceremonious struggle for what is thrown or held out; as, a scramble
for office.
Scarcity [of money] enhances its price, and increases the scramble.
Locke.

SCRAMBLED EGGS
Scram"bled eggs.

Defn: Eggs of which the whites and yolks are stirred together while
cooking, or eggs beaten slightly, often with a little milk, and
stirred while cooking.

SCRAMBLER
Scram"bler, n.

1. One who scrambles; one who climbs on all fours.

2. A greedy and unceremonious contestant.

SCRAMBLING
Scram"bling, a.

Defn: Confused and irregular; awkward; scambling.
 -- Scram"bling*ly, adv.
A huge old scrambling bedroom. Sir W. Scott.

SCRANCH
Scranch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scranched; p. pr. & vb. n. Scranching.]
Etym: [Cf. D. schransen to eat greedily, G. schranzen. Cf. Crunch,
Scrunch.]

Defn: To grind with the teeth, and with a crackling sound; to
craunch. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.]

SCRANKY
Scrank"y, a.

Defn: Thin; lean. [Scot.]

SCRANNEL
Scran"nel, a. Etym: [Cf. Scrawny.]

Defn: Slight; thin; lean; poor. Having
Grate on their scranned pipes of wretched straw. Milton.

SCRANNY
Scran"ny, a. Etym: [See Scrannel.]

Defn: Thin; lean; meager; scrawny; scrannel. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SCRAP
Scrap, n. Etym: [OE. scrappe, fr. Icel. skrap trifle, cracking. See
Scrape, v. t.]

1. Something scraped off; hence, a small piece; a bit; a fragment; a
detached, incomplete portion.
I have no materials -- not a scrap. De Quincey.

2. Specifically, a fragment of something written or printed; a brief
excerpt; an unconnected extract.

3. pl.

Defn: The crisp substance that remains after trying out animal fat;
as, pork scraps.

4. pl.

Defn: Same as Scrap iron, below. Scrap forgings, forgings made from
wrought iron scrap.
 -- Scrap iron. (a) Cuttings and waste pieces of wrought iron from
which bar iron or forgings can be made; -- called also wrought-iron
scrap. (b) Fragments of cast iron or defective castings suitable for
remelting in the foundry; -- called also founding scrap, or cast
scrap.

SCRAPBOOK
Scrap"book`, n.

Defn: A blank book in which extracts cut from books and papers may be
pasted and kept.

SCRAPE
Scrape, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scraped; p. pr. & vb. n. Scraping.] Etym:
[Icel. skrapa; akin to Sw. skrapa, Dan. skrabe, D. schrapen,
schrabben, G. schrappen, and prob. to E. sharp.]

1. To rub over the surface of (something) with a sharp or rough
instrument; to rub over with something that roughens by removing
portions of the surface; to grate harshly over; to abrade; to make
even, or bring to a required condition or form, by moving the sharp
edge of an instrument breadthwise over the surface with pressure,
cutting away excesses and superfluous parts; to make smooth or clean;
as, to scrape a bone with a knife; to scrape a metal plate to an even
surface.

2. To remove by rubbing or scraping (in the sense above).
I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her like the top of a
rock. Ezek. xxvi. 4.

3. To collect by, or as by, a process of scraping; to gather in small
portions by laborius effort; hence, to acquire avariciously and save
penuriously; -- often followed by together or up; as, to scrape money
together.
The prelatical party complained that, to swell a number the
nonconformists did not choose, but scrape, subscribers. Fuller.

4. To express disapprobation of, as a play, or to silence, as a
speaker, by drawing the feet back and forth upon the floor; --
usually with down. Macaulay. To scrape acquaintance, to seek
acquaintance otherwise than by an introduction. Farquhar.
He tried to scrape acquaintance with her, but failed ignominiously.
G. W. Cable.

SCRAPE
Scrape, v. i.

1. To rub over the surface of anything with something which roughens
or removes it, or which smooths or cleans it; to rub harshly and
noisily along.

2. To occupy one's self with getting laboriously; as, he scraped and
saved until he became rich. "[Spend] their scraping fathers' gold."
Shak.

3. To play awkwardly and inharmoniously on a violin or like
instrument.

4. To draw back the right foot along the ground or floor when making
a bow.

SCRAPE
Scrape, n.

1. The act of scraping; also, the effect of scraping, as a scratch,
or a harsh sound; as, a noisy scrape on the floor; a scrape of a pen.

2. A drawing back of the right foot when bowing; also, a bow made
with that accompaniment. H. Spencer.

3. A disagreable and embrassing predicament, as it were, a painful
rubbing or scraping; a perplexity; a difficulty.
The too eager pursuit of this his old enemy through thick and thin
has led him into many of these scrapes. Bp. Warburton.

SCRAPEPENNY
Scrape"pen`ny, n.

Defn: One who gathers and hoards money in trifling sums; a miser.

SCRAPER
Scrap"er, n.

1. An instrument with which anything is scraped. Specifically:
(a) An instrument by which the soles of shoes are cleaned from mud
and the like, by drawing them across it.
(b) An instrument drawn by oxen or horses, used for scraping up earth
in making or repairing roads, digging cellars, canals etc.
(c) (Naut.) An instrument having two or three sharp sides or edges,
for cleaning the planks, masts, or decks of a ship.
(d) (Lithography) In the printing press, a board, or blade, the edge
of which is made to rub over the tympan sheet and thus produce the
impression.

2. One who scrapes. Specifically:
(a) One who plays awkwardly on a violin.
(b) One who acquires avariciously and saves penuriously.

SCRAPING
Scrap"ing, n.

1. The act of scraping; the act or process of making even, or
reducing to the proper form, by means of a scraper.

2. Something scraped off; that which is separated from a substance,
or is collected by scraping; as, the scraping of the street.

SCRAPING
Scrap"ing, a.

Defn: Resembling the act of, or the effect produced by, one who, or
that which, scrapes; as, a scraping noise; a scraping miser.
 -- Scrap"ing*ly, adv.

SCRAPPILY
Scrap"pi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scrappy manner; in scraps. Mary Cowden Clarke.

SCRAPPLE
Scrap"ple, n. [Dim. of scrap.]

Defn: An article of food made by boiling together bits or scraps of
meat, usually pork, and flour or Indian meal.

SCRAPPY
Scrap"py, a.

Defn: Consisting of scraps; fragmentary; lacking unity or
consistency; as, a scrappy lecture.
A dreadfully scrappy dinner. Thackeray.

SCRAT
Scrat, v. t. Etym: [OE. scratten. Cf. Scratch.]

Defn: To scratch. [Obs.] Burton.

SCRAT
Scrat, v. i.

Defn: To rake; to search. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

SCRAT
Scrat, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. scritta an hermaphrodite, Ir. scrut a scrub,
a low, mean person, Gael. sgrut, sgruit, an old, shriveled person.]

Defn: An hermaphrodite. [Obs.] Skinner.

SCRATCH
Scratch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scratched; p. pr. & vb. n. Scratching.]
Etym: [OE. cracchen (perhaps influenced by OE. scratten to scratch);
cf. OHG. chrazz, G. kratzen, OD. kratsen, kretsen, D. krassen, Sw.
kratsa to scrape, kratta to rake, to scratch, Dan. kradse to scratch,
to scrape, Icel. krota to engrave. Cf. Grate to rub.]

1. To rub and tear or mark the surface of with something sharp or
ragged; to scrape, roughen, or wound slightly by drawing something
pointed or rough across, as the claws, the nails, a pin, or the like.
Small sand-colored stones, so hard as to scratch glass.Grew.
Be mindful, when invention fails.,
To scratch your head, and bite your nails.Swift.

2. To write or draw hastily or awkwardly. Scratch out a pamphlet."
Swift.

3. To cancel by drawing one or more lines through, as the name of a
candidate upon a ballot, or of a horse in a list; hence, to erase; to
efface; -- often with out.

4. To dig or excavate with the claws; as, some animals scratch holes,
in which they burrow. To scratch a ticket, to cancel one or more
names of candidates on a party ballot; to refuse to vote the party
ticket in its entirety. [U.S.]

SCRATCH
Scratch, v. i.

1. To use the claws or nails in tearing or in digging; to make
scratches.
Dull, tame things, . . . that will neither bite nor scratch. Dr. H.
More.

2. (Billiards)

Defn: To score, not by skillful play but by some fortunate chance of
the game. [Cant, U.S.]

SCRATCH
Scratch, n.

1. A break in the surface of a thing made by scratching, or by
rubbing with anything pointed or rough; a slight wound, mark, furrow,
or incision.
The coarse file . . . makes deep scratches in the work. Moxon.
These nails with scratches deform my breast. Prior.
God forbid a shallow scratch should drive The prince of Wales from
such a field as this. Shak.

2. (Pugilistic Matches)

Defn: A line across the prize ring; up to which boxers are brought
when they join fight; hence, test, trial, or proof of courage; as, to
bring to the scratch; to come up to the scratch. [Cant] Grose.

3. pl. (Far.)

Defn: Minute, but tender and troublesome, excoriations, covered with
scabs, upon the heels of horses which have been used where it is very
wet or muddy. Law (Farmer's Veter. Adviser).

4. A kind of wig covering only a portion of the head.

5. (Billiards)

Defn: A shot which scores by chance and not as intended by the
player; a fluke. [Cant, U.S.] Scratch cradle. See Cratch cradle,
under Cratch.
 -- Scratch grass (Bot.), a climbing knotweed (Polygonum sagittatum)
with a square stem beset with fine recurved prickles along the
angles.
 -- Scratch wig. Same as Scratch, 4, above. Thackeray.

SCRATCH
Scratch, a.

Defn: Made, done, or happening by chance; arranged with little or no
preparation; determined by circumstances; haphazard; as, a scratch
team; a scratch crew for a boat race; a scratch shot in billiards.
[Slang] Scratch race, one without restrictions regarding the entrance
of competitors; also, one for which the competitors are chosen by
lot.

SCRATCHBACK
Scratch"back`, n.

Defn: A toy which imitates the sound of tearing cloth, -- used by
drawing it across the back of unsuspecting persons. [Eng.]

SCRATCHBRUSH
Scratch"brush`, n.

Defn: A stiff wire brush for cleaning iron castings and other metal.

SCRATCH COAT
Scratch" coat`.

Defn: The first coat in plastering; -- called also scratchwork. See
Pricking-up.

SCRATCHER
Scratch"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, scratches; specifically (Zool.), any
rasorial bird.

SCRATCHING
Scratch"ing, adv.

Defn: With the action of scratching.

SCRATCH PLAYER; SCRATCH RUNNER
Scratch player, runner, etc.

Defn: One that starts from the scratch; hence, one of first-rate
ability.

SCRATCHWEED
Scratch"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Cleavers.

SCRATCHWORK
Scratch"work`, n.

Defn: See Scratch coat.

SCRATCHY
Scratch"y, a.

Defn: Characterized by scratches.

SCRAW
Scraw, n. Etym: [Ir. scrath a turf, sgraith a turf, green sod; akin
to Gael. sgrath, sgroth, the outer skin of anything, a turf, a green
sod.]

Defn: A turf. [Obs.] Swift.

SCRAWL
Scrawl, v. i.

Defn: See Crawl. [Obs.] Latimer.

SCRAWL
Scrawl, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scrawled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scrawling.]
Etym: [Probably corrupted from scrabble.]

Defn: To draw or mark awkwardly and irregularly; to write hastily and
carelessly; to scratch; to scribble; as, to scrawl a letter.
His name, scrawled by himself. Macaulay.

SCRAWL
Scrawl, v. i.

Defn: To write unskillfully and inelegantly.
Though with a golden pen you scrawl. Swift.

SCRAWL
Scrawl, n.

Defn: Unskillful or inelegant writing; that which is unskillfully or
inelegantly written.
The left will make such a scrawl, that it will not be legible.
Arbuthnot.
You bid me write no more than a scrawl to you. Gray.

SCRAWLER
Scrawl"er, n.

Defn: One who scrawls; a hasty, awkward writer.

SCRAWNY
Scraw"ny, a. Etym: [Cf. Scrannel.]

Defn: Meager; thin; rawboned; bony; scranny.

SCRAY
Scray, n. Etym: [Cf. W. ysgraen, ysgraell, a sea swallow, Armor.
skrav.] (Zool.)

Defn: A tern; the sea swallow. [Prov. Eng.] [Written also sgraye.]

SCREABLE
Scre"a*ble, a. Etym: [L. screare to hawk, spit out.]

Defn: Capable of being spit out. [Obs.] Bailey.

SCREAK
Screak, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Screaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Screaking.]
Etym: [Cf. Icel. skr?kja to screech. Cf. Creak, v., Screech.]

Defn: To utter suddenly a sharp, shrill sound; to screech; to creak,
as a door or wheel.

SCREAK
Screak, n.

Defn: A creaking; a screech; a shriek. Bp. Bull.

SCREAM
Scream, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Screamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Screaming.]
Etym: [Icel. skr?ma to scare, terrify; akin to Sw. skrama, Dan.
skr?mme. Cf. Screech.]

Defn: To cry out with a shrill voice; to utter a sudden, sharp
outcry, or shrill, loud cry, as in fright or extreme pain; to shriek;
to screech.
I heard the owl scream and the crickets cry. Shak.
And scream thyself as none e'er screamed before. Pope.

SCREAM
Scream, n.

Defn: A sharp, shrill cry, uttered suddenly, as in terror or in pain;
a shriek; a screech. "Screams of horror." Pope.

SCREAMER
Scream"er, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of three species of South American birds constituting
the family Anhimid?, and the suborder Palamede?. They have two spines
on each wing, and the head is either crested or horned. They are
easily tamed, and then serve as guardians for other poultry. The
crested screamers, or chajas, belong to the genus Chauna. The horned
screamer, or kamichi, is Palamedea cornuta.

SCREAMING
Scream"ing, a.

1. Uttering screams; shrieking.

2. Having the nature of a scream; like a scream; shrill; sharp.
The fearful matrons raise a screaming cry. Dryden.

SCREE
Scree, n.

Defn: A pebble; a stone; also, a heap of stones or rocky debris.
[Prov. Eng.] Southey.

SCREECH
Screech, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Screeched; p. pr. & vb. n. Screeching.]
Etym: [Also formerly, scritch, OE. skriken, skrichen, schriken, of
Scand. origin; cf. Icel. skr?kja to shriek, to screech, skrija to
titter, Sw. skrika to shriek, Dan. skrige; also Gael. sgreach,
sgreuch, W. ysgrechio, Skr. kharj to creak. Cf. Shriek, v., Scream,
v.]

Defn: To utter a harsh, shrill cry; to make a sharp outcry, as in
terror or acute pain; to scream; to shriek. "The screech owl,
screeching loud." Shak.

SCREECH
Screech, n.

Defn: A harsh, shrill cry, as of one in acute pain or in fright; a
shriek; a scream. Screech bird, or Screech thrush (Zool.), the
fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain.
 -- Screech rain.
 -- Screech hawk (Zool.), the European goatsucker; -- so called from
its note. [Prov. Eng.] -- Screech owl. (Zool.) (a) A small American
owl (Scops asio), either gray or reddish in color. (b) The European
barn owl. The name is applied also to other species.

SCREECHERS
Screech"ers, n. pl. (Zool.)

Defn: The picarian birds, as distinguished from the singing birds.

SCREECHY
Screech"y, a.

Defn: Like a screech; shrill and harsh.

SCREED
Screed, n. Etym: [Prov. E., a shred, the border of a cap. See Shred.]

1. (Arch.)
(a) A strip of plaster of the thickness proposed for the coat,
applied to the wall at intervals of four or five feet, as a guide.
(b) A wooden straightedge used to lay across the plaster screed, as a
limit for the thickness of the coat.

2. A fragment; a portion; a shred. [Scot.]

SCREED
Screed, n. Etym: [See 1st Screed. For sense 2 cf. also Gael. sgread
an outcry.]

1. A breach or rent; a breaking forth into a loud, shrill sound; as,
martial screeds.

2. An harangue; a long tirade on any subject.
The old carl gae them a screed of doctrine; ye might have heard him a
mile down the wind. Sir W. Scott.

SCREEN
Screen, n. Etym: [OE. scren, OF. escrein, escran, F. ecran, of
uncertain origin; cf. G. schirm a screen, OHG. scrim, scern a
protection, shield, or G. schragen a trestle, a stack of wood, or G.
schranne a railing.]

1. Anything that separates or cuts off inconvience, injury, or
danger; that which shelters or conceals from view; a shield or
protection; as, a fire screen.
Your leavy screens throw down. Shak.
Some ambitious men seem as screens to princes in matters of danger
and envy. Bacon.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: A dwarf wall or partition carried up to a certain height for
separation and protection, as in a church, to separate the aisle from
the choir, or the like.

3. A surface, as that afforded by a curtain, sheet, wall, etc., upon
which an image, as a picture, is thrown by a magic lantern, solar
microscope, etc.

4. A long, coarse riddle or sieve, sometimes a revolving perforated
cylinder, used to separate the coarser from the finer parts, as of
coal, sand, gravel, and the like.

SCREEN
Screen, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Screened; p. pr. & vb. n. Screening.]

1. To provide with a shelter or means of concealment; to separate or
cut off from inconvience, injury, or danger; to shelter; to protect;
to protect by hiding; to conceal; as, fruits screened from cold winds
by a forest or hill.
They were encouraged and screened by some who were in high comands.
Macaulay.

2. To pass, as coal, gravel, ashes, etc., through a screen in order
to separate the coarse from the fine, or the worthless from the
valuable; to sift.

SCREENINGS
Screen"ings, n. pl.

Defn: The refuse left after screening sand, coal, ashes, etc.

SCREW
Screw, n. Etym: [OE. scrue, OF. escroue, escroe, female screw, F.
ecrou, L. scrobis a ditch, trench, in LL., the hole made by swine in
rooting; cf. D. schroef a screw, G. schraube, Icel. skr.]

1. A cylinder, or a cylindrical perforation, having a continuous rib,
called the thread, winding round it spirally at a constant
inclination, so as to leave a continuous spiral groove, between one
turn and the next, -- used chiefly for producing, when revolved,
motion or pressure in the direction of its axis, by the sliding of
the threads of the cylinder in the grooves between the threads of the
perforation adapted to it, the former being distinguished as the
external, or male screw, or, more usually the screw; the latter as
the internal, or female screw, or, more usually, the nut.

Note: The screw, as a mechanical power, is a modification of the
inclined plane, and may be regarded as a right-angled triangle
wrapped round a cylinder, the hypotenuse of the marking the spiral
thread of the screw, its base equaling the circumference of the
cylinder, and its height the pitch of the thread.

2. Specifically, a kind of nail with a spiral thread and a head with
a nick to receive the end of the screw-driver. Screws are much used
to hold together pieces of wood or to fasten something; -- called
also wood screws, and screw nails. See also Screw bolt, below.

3. Anything shaped or acting like a screw; esp., a form of wheel for
propelling steam vessels. It is placed at the stern, and furnished
with blades having helicoidal surfaces to act against the water in
the manner of a screw. See Screw propeller, below.

4. A steam vesel propelled by a screw instead of wheels; a screw
steamer; a propeller.

5. An extortioner; a sharp bargainer; a skinflint; a niggard.
Thackeray.

6. An instructor who examines with great or unnecessary severity;
also, a searching or strict examination of a student by an
instructor. [Cant, American Colleges]

7. A small packet of tobacco. [Slang] Mayhew.

8. An unsound or worn-out horse, useful as a hack, and commonly of
good appearance. Ld. Lytton.

9. (Math.)

Defn: A straight line in space with which a definite linear magnitude
termed the pitch is associated (cf. 5th Pitch, 10 (b)). It is used to
express the displacement of a rigid body, which may always be made to
consist of a rotation about an axis combined with a translation
parallel to that axis.

10. (Zool.)

Defn: An amphipod crustacean; as, the skeleton screw (Caprella). See
Sand screw, under Sand. Archimedes screw, Compound screw, Foot screw,
etc. See under Archimedes, Compound, Foot, etc.
 -- A screw loose, something out of order, so that work is not done
smoothly; as, there is a screw loose somewhere. H. Martineau.
 -- Endless, or perpetual screw, a screw used to give motion to a
toothed wheel by the action of its threads between the teeth of the
wheel; -- called also a worm.
 -- Lag screw. See under Lag.
 -- Micrometer screw, a screw with fine threads, used for the
measurement of very small spaces.
 -- Right and left screw, a screw having threads upon the opposite
ends which wind in opposite directions.
 -- Screw alley. See Shaft alley, under Shaft.
 -- Screw bean. (Bot.) (a) The curious spirally coiled pod of a
leguminous tree (Prosopis pubescens) growing from Texas to
California. It is used for fodder, and ground into meal by the
Indians. (b) The tree itself. Its heavy hard wood is used for fuel,
for fencing, and for railroad ties.
 -- Screw bolt, a bolt having a screw thread on its shank, in
distinction from a key bolt. See 1st Bolt, 3.
 -- Screw box, a device, resembling a die, for cutting the thread on
a wooden screw.
 -- Screw dock. See under Dock.
 -- Screw engine, a marine engine for driving a screw propeller.
 -- Screw gear. See Spiral gear, under Spiral.
 -- Screw jack. Same as Jackscrew.
 -- Screw key, a wrench for turming a screw or nut; a spanner wrench.
 -- Screw machine. (a) One of a series of machines employed in the
manufacture of wood screws. (b) A machine tool resembling a lathe,
having a number of cutting tools that can be caused to act on the
work successively, for making screws and other turned pieces from
metal rods.
 -- Screw pine (Bot.), any plant of the endogenous genus Pandanus, of
which there are about fifty species, natives of tropical lands from
Africa to Polynesia; -- named from the spiral arrangement of the
pineapple-like leaves.
 -- Screw plate, a device for cutting threads on small screws,
consisting of a thin steel plate having a series of perforations with
internal screws forming dies.
 -- Screw press, a press in which pressure is exerted by means of a
screw.
 -- Screw propeller, a screw or spiral bladed wheel, used in the
propulsion of steam vessels; also, a steam vessel propelled by a
screw.
 -- Screw shell (Zool.), a long, slender, spiral gastropod shell,
especially of the genus Turritella and allied genera. See Turritella.
 -- Screw steamer, a steamship propelled by a screw.
 -- Screw thread, the spiral which forms a screw.
 -- Screw stone (Paleon.), the fossil stem of an encrinite.
 -- Screw tree (Bot.), any plant of the genus Helicteres, consisting
of about thirty species of tropical shrubs, with simple leaves and
spirally twisted, five-celled capsules; -- also called twisted-horn,
and twisty.
 -- Screw valve, a stop valve which is opened or closed by a screw.
 -- Screw worm (Zool.), the larva of an American fly (Compsomyia
macellaria), allied to the blowflies, which sometimes deposits its
eggs in the nostrils, or about wounds, in man and other animals, with
fatal results.
 -- Screw wrench. (a) A wrench for turning a screw. (b) A wrench with
an adjustable jaw that is moved by a screw.
 -- To put the screw, or screws, on, to use pressure upon, as for the
purpose of extortion; to coerce.
 -- To put under the screw or screws, to subject to presure; to
force.
 -- Wood screw, a metal screw with a sharp thread of coarse pitch,
adapted to holding fast in wood. See Illust. of Wood screw, under
Wood.

SCREW
Screw, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Screwed; p. pr. & vb. n. Screwing.]

1. To turn, as a screw; to apply a screw to; to press, fasten, or
make firm, by means of a screw or screws; as, to screw a lock on a
door; to screw a press.

2. To force; to squeeze; to press, as by screws.
But screw your courage to the sticking place, And we'll not fail.
Shak.

3. Hence: To practice extortion upon; to oppress by unreasonable or
extortionate exactions.
Our country landlords, by unmeasureable screwing and racking their
tenants, have already reduced the miserable people to a worse
condition than the peasants in France. swift.

4. To twist; to distort; as, to screw his visage.
He screwed his face into a hardened smile. Dryden.

5. To examine rigidly, as a student; to subject to a severe
examination. [Cant, American Colleges] To screw out, to press out; to
extort.
 -- To screw up, to force; to bring by violent pressure. Howell.
 -- To screw in, to force in by turning or twisting.

SCREW
Screw, v. i.

1. To use violent mans in making exactions; to be oppressive or
exacting. Howitt.

2. To turn one's self uneasily with a twisting motion; as, he screws
about in his chair.

SCREW-CUTTING
Screw"-cut`ting, a.

Defn: Adapted for forming a screw by cutting; as, a screw-cutting
lathe.

SCREW-DRIVER
Screw"-driv`er, n.

Defn: A tool for turning screws so as to drive them into their place.
It has a thin end which enters the nick in the head of the screw.

SCREWER
Screw"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, screws.

SCREWING
Screw"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Screw, v. t. Screwing machine. See Screw machine,
under Screw.

SCRIBABLE
Scrib"a*ble, a. Etym: [See Scribe.]

Defn: Capable of being written, or of being written upon. [R.]

SCRIBATIOUS
Scri*ba"tious, a. Etym: [See Scribe.]

Defn: Skillful in, or fond of, writing. [Obs.] Barrow.

SCRIBBET
Scrib"bet, n.

Defn: A painter's pencil.

SCRIBBLE
Scrib"ble, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Scrabble.] (Woolen Manuf.)

Defn: To card coarsely; to run through the scribling machine.

SCRIBBLE
Scrib"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scribbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scribling.]
Etym: [From Scrible.]

1. To write hastily or carelessly, without regard to correctness or
elegance; as, to scribble a letter.

2. To fill or cover with careless or worthless writing.

SCRIBBLE
Scrib"ble, v. i.

Defn: To write without care, elegance, or value; to scrawl.
If M?vius scribble in Apollo's spite. Pope.

SCRIBBLE
Scrib"ble, n.

Defn: Hasty or careless writing; a writing of little value; a scrawl;
as, a hasty scribble. Boyle.
Neither did I but vacant seasons spend In this my scribble. Bunyan.

SCRIBBLEMENT
Scrib"ble*ment, n.

Defn: A scribble. [R.] oster.

SCRIBBLER
Scrib"bler, n.

Defn: One who scribles; a literary hack.
The scribbler, pinched with hunger, writes to dine. Granville.

SCRIBBLER
Scrib"bler, n.

Defn: A scribbling machine.

SCRIBBLING
Scrib"bling, n. Etym: [See 1st Scribble.]

Defn: The act or process of carding coarsely. Scribbing machine, the
machine used for the first carding of wool or other fiber; -- called
also scribbler.

SCRIBBLING
Scrib"bling, a.

Defn: Writing hastily or poorly.
Ye newspaper witlings! ye pert scribbling folks! Goldsmith.

SCRIBBLING
Scrib"bling, n.

Defn: The act of writing hastily or idly.

SCRIBBLINGLY
Scrib"bling*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scribbling manner.

SCRIBE
Scribe, n. Etym: [L. scriba, fr. scribere to write; cf. Gr. scarify.
Cf. Ascribe, Describe, Script, Scrivener, Scrutoire.]

1. One who writes; a draughtsman; a writer for another; especially,
an offical or public writer; an amanuensis or secretary; a notary; a
copyist.

2. (Jewish Hist.)

Defn: A writer and doctor of the law; one skilled in the law and
traditions; one who read and explained the law to the people.

SCRIBE
Scribe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scribed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scribing.]

1. To write, engrave, or mark upon; to inscribe. Spenser.

2. (Carp.)

Defn: To cut (anything) in such a way as to fit closely to a somewhat
irregular surface, as a baseboard to a floor which is out of level, a
board to the curves of a molding, or the like; -- so called because
the workman marks, or scribe, with the compasses the line that he
afterwards cuts.

3. To score or mark with compasses or a scribing iron. Scribing iron,
an iron-pointed instrument for scribing, or marking, casks and logs.

SCRIBE
Scribe, v. i.

Defn: To make a mark.
With the separated points of a pair of spring dividers scribe around
the edge of the templet. A. M. Mayer.

SCRIBER
Scrib"er, n.

Defn: A sharp-pointed tool, used by joiners for drawing lines on
stuff; a marking awl.

SCRIBISM
Scrib"ism, n.

Defn: The character and opinions of a Jewish scribe in the time of
Christ. F. W. Robertson.

SCRID
Scrid, n.

Defn: A screed; a shred; a fragment. [R.]

SCRIGGLE
Scrig"gle, v. i.

Defn: To wriggle. [Prov. Eng.]

SCRIM
Scrim, n.

1. A kind of light cotton or linen fabric, often woven in openwork
patterns, -- used for curtains, etc,; -- called also India scrim.

2. pl.

Defn: Thin canvas glued on the inside of panels to prevent shrinking,
checking, etc.

SCRIMER
Scri"mer, n. Etym: [F. escrimeur. See Skirmish.]

Defn: A fencing master. [Obs.] Shak.

SCRIMMAGE
Scrim"mage (; 48), n. Etym: [A corruption of skirmish. "Sore
scrymmishe." Ld. Berners.]] [Written also scrummage.]

1. Formerly, a skirmish; now, a general row or confused fight or
struggle.

2. (Football)

Defn: The struggle in the rush lines after the ball is put in play.

SCRIMP
Scrimp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scrimped; p. pr. & vb. n. Scrimping.]
Etym: [Cf. Dan. skrumpe, G. schrumpfen, D. krimpen. Cf. Shrimp,
Shrine.]

Defn: To make too small or short; to limit or straiten; to put on
short allowance; to scant; to contract; to shorten; as, to scrimp the
pattern of a coat.

SCRIMP
Scrimp, a.

Defn: Short; scanty; curtailed.

SCRIMP
Scrimp, n.

Defn: A pinching miser; a niggard. [U.S.]

SCRIMPING
Scrimp"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Scrimp, v. t. Scrimping bar, a device used in
connection with a calico printing machine for stretching the fabric
breadthwise so that it may be smooth for printing. Knight.

SCRIMPINGLY
Scrimp"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scrimping manner.

SCRIMPNESS
Scrimp"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being scrimp.

SCRIMPTION
Scrimp"tion, n.

Defn: A small portion; a pittance; a little bit. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

SCRIMSHAW
Scrim"shaw`, v. t.

Defn: To ornament, as shells, ivory, etc., by engraving, and
(usually) rubbing pigments into the incised lines. [Sailor's cant.
U.S.]

SCRIMSHAW
Scrim"shaw`, n.

Defn: A shell, a whale's tooth, or the like, that is scrimshawed.
[Sailor's cant, U.S.]

SCRINE
Scrine, n. Etym: [L. scrinium a case for books, letters, etc.: cf.
OF. escrin, F. ecrin. See Shrine.]

Defn: A chest, bookcase, or other place, where writings or
curiosities are deposited; a shrine. [Obs.]
But laid them up in immortial scrine. Spenser.

SCRINE
Scrine, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scringed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scringing.]
Etym: [Cf. Cringe.]

Defn: To cringe. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.]

SCRINGE
Scringe, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scringed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scringing.]
[Cf. Cringe.]

Defn: To cringe. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.]

SCRIP
Scrip, n. Etym: [OE. scrippe, probably of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. &
OSw. skreppa, and also LL. scrippum, OF. esquerpe, escrepe, F.
echarpe scarf. Cf. Scarp, Scarf a piece of dress.]

Defn: A small bag; a wallet; a satchel. [Archaic] Chaucer.
And in requital ope his leathern scrip. Milton.

SCRIP
Scrip, n. Etym: [From script.]

1. A small writing, certificate, or schedule; a piece of paper
containing a writing.
Call them generally, man by man, according to the scrip. Shak.
Bills of exchange can not pay our debts abroad, till scrips of paper
can be made current coin. Locke.

2. A preliminary certificate of a subscription to the capital of a
bank, railroad, or other company, or for a share of other joint
property, or a loan, stating the amount of the subscription and the
date of the payment of the installments; as, insurance scrip, consol
scrip, etc. When all the installments are paid, the scrip is
exchanged for a bond share certificate.

3. Paper fractional currency. [Colloq.U.S.]

SCRIPPAGE
Scrip"page (; 48), n.

Defn: The contents of a scrip, or wallet. [Obs.] Shak.

SCRIPT
Script, n. Etym: [OE. scrit, L. scriptum something written, fr.
scribere, scriptum to write: cf. OF. escript, , F. ecrit. See Scribe,
and cf. Scrip a writing.]

1. A writing; a written document. [Obs.] aucer.

2. (Print.)

Defn: Type made in imitation of handwriting.

3. (Law)

Defn: An original instrument or document.

4. Written characters; style of writing.

SCRIPTORIUM
Scrip*to"ri*um, n.; pl. Scriptoria. Etym: [LL. See Scriptory.]

Defn: In an abbey or monastery, the room set apart for writing or
copying manuscripts; in general, a room devoted to writing.
Writing rooms, or scriptoria, where the chief works of Latin
literature . . . were copied and illuminated. J. R. Green.

SCRIPTORY
Scrip"to*ry, a. Etym: [L. scriptorius, fr. scribere, scriptum to
write.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to writing; expressed in writing; used in
writing; as, scriptory wills; a scriptory reed. [R.] Swift.

SCRIPTURAL
Scrip"tur*al, a.

Defn: Contained in the Scriptures; according to the Scriptures, or
sacred oracles; biblical; as, a scriptural doctrine.

SCRIPTURALISM
Scrip"tur*al*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being scriptural; literal adherence to
the Scriptures.

SCRIPTURALIST
Scrip"tur*al*ist, n.

Defn: One who adheres literally to the Scriptures.

SCRIPTURALLY
Scrip"tur*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scriptural manner.

SCRIPTURALNESS
Scrip"tur*al*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being scriptural.

SCRIPTURE
Scrip"ture, n. Etym: [L. scriptura, fr. scribere, scriptum, to write:
cf. OF. escripture, escriture, F. ecriture. See Scribe.]

1. Anything written; a writing; a document; an inscription.
I have put it in scripture and in remembrance. Chaucer.
Then the Lord of Manny read the scripture on the tomb, the which was
in Latin. Ld. Berners.

2. The books of the Old and the new Testament, or of either of them;
the Bible; -- used by way of eminence or distinction, and chiefly in
the plural.
There is not any action a man ought to do, or to forbear, but the
Scripture will give him a clear precept or prohibition for it. South.
Compared with the knowledge which the Scripteres contain, every other
subject of human inquiry is vanity. Buckminster.

3. A passage from the Bible;; a text.
The devil can eite Scripture for his purpose. Shak.
Hanging by the twined thread of one doubtful Scripture. Milton.

SCRIPTURIAN
Scrip*tu"ri*an, n.

Defn: A Scripturist. [Obs.]

SCRIPTURIST
Scrip"tur*ist, n.

Defn: One who is strongly attached to, or versed in, the Scriptures,
or who endeavors to regulate his life by them.
The Puritan was a Scripturist with all his heart, if as yet with
imperfect intelligence . . . he cherished the scheme of looking to
the Word of God as his sole and universal directory. Palfrey.

SCRIT
Scrit, n. Etym: [See Script.]

Defn: Writing; document; scroll. [Obs.] "Of every scrit and bond."
Chaucer.

SCRITCH
Scritch, n.

Defn: A screech. [R.]
Perhaps it is the owlet's scritch. Coleridge.

SCRIVENER
Scrive"ner ( or ), n. Etym: [From older scrivein, OF. escrivain, F.
ecrivain, LL. scribanus, from L. scribere to write. See Scribe.]

1. A professional writer; one whose occupation is to draw contracts
or prepare writings. Shak.
The writer better scrivener than clerk. Fuller.

2. One whose business is to place money at interest; a broker. [Obs.]
ryden.

3. A writing master. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell. Scrivener's palsy. See
Writer's cramp, under Writer.

SCROBICULA
Scro*bic"u*la, n.; pl. Scrobicul?. Etym: [NL. See Scrobiculate.]
(Zool.)

Defn: One of the smooth areas surrounding the tubercles of a sea
urchin.

SCROBICULAR
Scro*bic"u*lar, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or surrounding, scrobicul?; as, scrobicular
tubercles.

SCROBICULATE; SCROBICULATED
Scro*bic"u*late, Scro*bic"u*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. scrobiculus, dim. of
scrobis a ditch or trench.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having numerous small, shallow depressions or hollows; pitted.

SCROD; SCRODE
Scrod, Scrode, n.

Defn: A young codfish, especially when cut open on the back and
dressed. [Written also escrod.] [Local, U.S.]

SCRODDLED WARE
Scrod"dled ware`.

Defn: Mottled pottery made from scraps of differently colored clays.

SCROFULA
Scrof"u*la, n. Etym: [L. scrofulae, fr. scrofa a breeding sow,
because swine were supposed to be subject to such a complaint, or by
a fanciful comparison of the glandular swellings to little pigs;
perhaps akin to Gr. scrofules. Cf. Scroyle.] (Med.)

Defn: A constitutional disease, generally hereditary, especially
manifested by chronic enlargement and cheesy degeneration of the
lymphatic glands, particularly those of the neck, and marked by a
tendency to the development of chronic intractable inflammations of
the skin, mucous membrane, bones, joints, and other parts, and by a
diminution in the power of resistance to disease or injury and the
capacity for recovery. Scrofula is now generally held to be
tuberculous in character, and may develop into general or local
tuberculosis (consumption).

SCROFULIDE
Scrof"u*lide ( or ), n. (Med.)

Defn: Any affection of the skin dependent on scrofula.

SCROFULOUS
Scrof"u*lous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. scrofuleux.]

1. Pertaining to scrofula, or partaking of its nature; as, scrofulous
tumors; a scrofulous habit of body.

2. Diseased or affected with scrofula.
Scrofulous persons can never be duly nourished. Arbuthnot.
-- Scorf"u*lous*ly, adv.
 -- Scrof"u*lous*ness, n.

SCROG
Scrog, n. Etym: [Cf. Scrag, or Gael. sgrogag anything shriveled, from
sgrag to compress, shrivel.]

Defn: A stunted shrub, bush, or branch. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SCROGGY
Scrog"gy, a.

Defn: Abounding in scrog; also, twisted; stunted. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.] Halliwell.

SCROLL
Scroll, n. Etym: [A dim. of OE. scroue, scrowe (whence E. escrow),
OF. escroe, escroue, F. ecrou entry in the jail book, LL. scroa
scroll, probably of Teutonic origin; cf. OD. schroode a strip, shred,
slip of paper, akin to E. shred. Cf. Shred, Escrow.]

1. A roll of paper or parchment; a writing formed into a roll; a
schedule; a list.
The heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll. Isa. xxxiv. 4.
Here is the scroll of every man's name. Shak.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornament formed of undulations giving off spirals or sprays,
usually suggestive of plant form. Roman architectural ornament is
largely of some scroll pattern.

3. A mark or flourish added to a person's signature, intended to
represent a seal, and in some States allowed as a substitute for a
seal. [U.S.] Burrill.

4. (Geom.)

Defn: Same as Skew surface. See under Skew. Linen scroll (Arch.) See
under Linen.
 -- Scroll chuck (Mach.), an adjustable chuck, applicable to a lathe
spindle, for centering and holding work, in which the jaws are
adjusted and tightened simultaneously by turning a disk having in its
face a spiral groove which is entered by teeth on the backs of the
jaws.
 -- Scroll saw. See under Saw.

SCROLLED
Scrolled, a.

Defn: Formed like a scroll; contained in a scroll; adorned with
scrolls; as, scrolled work.

SCROPHULARIA
Scroph`u*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL. So called because it was reputed to
be remedy for scrofula.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coarse herbs having small flowers in panicled cymes;
figwort.

SCROPHULARIACEOUS
Scroph`u*la`ri*a"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a very large natural order of gamopetalous
plants (Scrophulariace?, or Scrophularine?), usually having irregular
didynamous flowers and a two-celled pod. The order includes the
mullein, foxglove, snapdragon, figwort, painted cup, yellow rattle,
and some exotic trees, as the Paulownia.

SCROTAL
Scro"tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the scrotum; as, scrotal hernia.

SCROTIFORM
Scro"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. scrotum scrotum + -form.]

Defn: Purse-shaped; pouch-shaped.

SCROTOCELE
Scro"to*cele, n. Etym: [Scrotum + Gr. scrotocele.] (Med.)

Defn: A rupture or hernia in the scrotum; scrotal hernia.

SCROTUM
Scro"tum, n. Etym: [L.] (Anat.)

Defn: The bag or pouch which contains the testicles; the cod.

SCROUGE
Scrouge, v. t. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: To crowd; to squeeze. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.]

SCROW
Scrow ( or ), n. Etym: [See Escrow, Scroll.]

1. A scroll. [Obs.] Palsgrave.

2. A clipping from skins; a currier's cuttings.

SCROYLE
Scroyle, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. escrouselle a kind of vermin, escrouelles,
pl., scrofula, F. ecrouelles, fr. (assumed) LL. scrofulae. See
Scrofula, and cf. Cruels.]

Defn: A mean fellow; a wretch. [Obs.] hak.

SCRUB
Scrub, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scrubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scrubbing.]
Etym: [OE. scrobben, probably of Dutch or Scand. origin; cf. Dan.
sckrubbe, Sw. skrubba, D. schrobben, LG. schrubben.]

Defn: To rub hard; to wash with rubbing; usually, to rub with a wet
brush, or with something coarse or rough, for the purpose of cleaning
or brightening; as, to scrub a floor, a doorplate.

SCRUB
Scrub, v. i.

Defn: To rub anything hard, especially with a wet brush; to scour;
hence, to be diligent and penurious; as, to scrub hard for a living.

SCRUB
Scrub, n.

1. One who labors hard and lives meanly; a mean fellow. "A sorry
scrub." Bunyan.
We should go there in as proper a manner possible; nor altogether
like the scrubs about us. Goldsmith.

2. Something small and mean.

3. A worn-out brush. Ainsworth.

4. A thicket or jungle, often specified by the name of the prevailing
plant; as, oak scrub, palmetto scrub, etc.

5. (Stock Breeding)

Defn: One of the commen live stock of a region of no particular breed
or not of pure breed, esp. when inferior in size, etc. [U.S.] Scrub
bird (Zool.), an Australian passerine bird of the family
Atrichornithid?, as Atrichia clamosa; -- called also brush bird.
 -- Scrub oak (Bot.), the popular name of several dwarfish species of
oak. The scrub oak of New England and the Middle States is Quercus
ilicifolia, a scraggy shrub; that of the Southern States is a small
tree (Q. Catesb?i); that of the Rocky Mountain region is Q. undulata,
var. Gambelii.
 -- Scrub robin (Zool.), an Australian singing bird of the genus
Drymodes.

SCRUB
Scrub, a.

Defn: Mean; dirty; contemptible; scrubby.
How solitary, how scrub, does this town lokk! Walpole.
No little scrub joint shall come on my board. Swift.
Scrub game, a game, as of ball, by unpracticed players.
 -- Scrub race, a race between scrubs, or between untrained animals
or contestants.

SCRUBBED
Scrub"bed, a.

Defn: Dwarfed or stunted; scrubby.

SCRUBBER
Scrub"ber, n.

1. One who, or that which, scrubs; esp., a brush used in scrubbing.

2. (Gas Manuf.)

Defn: A gas washer. See under Gas.

SCRUBBOARD
Scrub"board`, n.

Defn: A baseboard; a mopboard.

SCRUBBY
Scrub"by, a. [Compar. Scrubbier; superl. Scrubbiest.]

Defn: Of the nature of scrub; small and mean; stunted in growth; as,
a scrubby cur. "Dense, scrubby woods." Duke of Argull.

SCRUBSTONE
Scrub"stone`, n.

Defn: A species of calciferous sandstone. [Prov. Eng.]

SCRUFF
Scruff, n. Etym: [See Scurf.]

Defn: Scurf. [Obs.]

SCRUFF
Scruff, n. Etym: [Cf. Scuff.]

Defn: The nape of the neck; the loose outside skin, as of the back of
the neck.

SCRUMMAGE
Scrum"mage (; 43), n.

Defn: See Scrimmage.

SCRUMPTIOUS
Scrump"tious, a.

Defn: Nice; particular; fastidious; excellent; fine. [Slang]

SCRUNCH
Scrunch, v. t. & v. i. Etym: [Cf. Scranch, Crunch.]

Defn: To scranch; to crunch. Dickens.

SCRUPLE
Scru"ple, n. Etym: [L. scrupulus a small sharp or pointed stone, the
twenty-fourth part of an ounce, a scruple, uneasiness, doubt, dim. of
scrupus a rough or sharp stone, anxiety, uneasiness; perh. akin to
Gr. kshura: cf. F. scrupule.]

1. A weight of twenty grains; the third part of a dram.

2. Hence, a very small quantity; a particle.
I will not bate thee a scruple. Shak.

3. Hesitation as to action from the difficulty of determining what is
right or expedient; unwillingness, doubt, or hesitation proceeding
from motives of conscience.
He was made miserable by the conflict between his tastes and his
scruples. Macaulay.
To make scruple, to hesitate from conscientious motives; to scruple.
Locke.

SCRUPLE
Scru"ple, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scrupled; p. pr. & vb. n. Skrupling.]

Defn: To be reluctant or to hesitate, as regards an action, on
account of considerations of conscience or expedience.
We are often over-precise, scrupling to say or do those things which
lawfully we may. Fuller.
Men scruple at the lawfulness of a set form of divine worship. South.

SCRUPLE
Scru"ple, v. t.

1. To regard with suspicion; to hesitate at; to question.
Others long before them . . . scrupled more the books of hereties
than of gentiles. Milton.

2. To excite scruples in; to cause to scruple. [R.]
Letters which did still scruple many of them. E. Symmons.

SCRUPLER
Scru"pler, n.

Defn: One who scruples.

SCRUPULIST
Scru"pu*list, n.

Defn: A scrupler. [Obs.]

SCRUPULIZE
Scru"pu*lize, v. t.

Defn: To perplex with scruples; to regard with scruples. [Obs.] Bp.
Montagu.

SCRUPULOSITY
Scru`pu*los"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. scrupulositas.]

Defn: The quality or state of being scruppulous; doubt; doubtfulness
respecting decision or action; caution or tenderness from the far of
doing wrong or ofending; nice regard to exactness and propierty;
precision.
The first sacrilege is looked on with horror; but when they have made
the breach, their scrupulosity soon retires. Dr. H. More.
Careful, even to scrupulosity, . . . to keep their Sabbath. South.

SCRUPULOUS
Scru"pu*lous, a. Etym: [L. scrupulosus: cf. F. scrupuleux.]

1. Full ofscrupules; inclined to scruple; nicely doubtful; hesitating
to determine or to act, from a fear of offending or of doing wrong.
Abusing their liberty, to the offense of their weak brethren which
were scrupulous. Hooker.

2. Careful; cautious; exact; nice; as, scrupulous abstinence from
labor; scrupulous performance of duties.

3. Given to making objections; captious. [Obs.]
Equality of two domestic powers Breed scrupulous faction. Shak.

4. Liable to be doubted; doubtful; nice. [Obs.]
The justice of that cause ought to be evident; not obscrure, not
scrupulous. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Cautious; careful; conscientious; hesitating.
 -- Scru"pu*lous*ly, adv.
 -- Scru"pu*lous*ness, n.

SCRUTABLE
Scru"ta*ble, a.

Defn: Discoverable by scrutiny, inquiry, or critical examination.
[R.] r. H. More.

SCRUTATION
Scru*ta"tion, n. Etym: [L. scrutatio.]

Defn: Search; scrutiny. [Obs.]

SCRUTATOR
Scru*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who scrutinizes; a close examiner or inquirer. Ayliffe.

SCRUTIN DE LISTE
Scru`tin" de liste" (skrus`taN" de lest). [F., voting by list.]

Defn: Voting for a group of candidates for the same kind of office on
one ticket or ballot, containing a list of them; -- the method, used
in France, as from June, 1885, to Feb., 1889, in elections for the
Chamber of Deputies, each elector voting for the candidates for the
whole department in which he lived, as disting. from scrutin
d'arrondissement (da`roN`des`maN"), or voting by each elector for the
candidate or candidates for his own arrondissement only.

SCRUTINEER
Scru`ti*neer, n.

Defn: A scrutinizer; specifically, an examiner of votes, as at an
election.

SCRUTINIZE
Scru"ti*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scrutinized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Scrutinizing.] Etym: [From Scrutiny.]

Defn: To examine closely; to inspect or observe with critical
attention; to regard narrowly; as, to scrutinize the measures of
administration; to scrutinize the conduct or motives of individuals.
Whose votes they were obliged to scrutinize. Ayliffe.
Thscrutinized his face the closest. G. W. Cable.

SCRUTINIZE
Scru"ti*nize, v. i.

Defn: To make scrutiny.

SCRUTINIZER
Scru"ti*ni`zer, n.

Defn: One who scrutinizes.

SCRUTINOUS
Scru"ti*nous, a.

Defn: Closely examining, or inquiring; careful; sctrict.
 -- Scru"ti*nous*ly, adv.

SCRUTINY
Scru"ti*ny, n. Etym: [L. scrutinium, fr. scrutari to search carefuly,
originally, to search even to the rags, fr. scruta trash, trumpery;
perhaps akin to E. shred: cf. AS. scrudnian to make scrutiny.]

1. Close examination; minute inspection; critical observation.
They that have designed exactness and deep scrutiny have taken some
one part of nature. Sir M. Hale.
Thenceforth I thought thee worth my nearer view And narrower
scrutiny. Milton.

2. (Anc. Church)

Defn: An examination of catechumens, in the last week of Lent, who
were to receive baptism on Easter Day.

3. (Canon Law)

Defn: A ticket, or little paper billet, on which a vote is written.

4. (Parliamentary Practice)

Defn: An examination by a committee of the votes given at an
election, for the purpose of correcting the poll. Brande & C.

SCRUTINY
Scru"ti*ny, v. t.

Defn: To scrutinize. [Obs.]

SCRUTOIRE
Scru*toire", n. Etym: [OF. escritoire. See Escritoire.]

Defn: A escritoire; a writing desk.

SCRUZE
Scruze, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Excruciate.]

Defn: To squeeze, compress, crush, or bruise. [Obs. or Low] Spenser.

SCRY
Scry, v. t.

Defn: To descry. [Obs.] Spenser.

SCRY
Scry, n. Etym: [From Scry, v.]

Defn: A flock of wild fowl.

SCRY
Scry, n. Etym: [OE. ascrie, fr. ascrien to cry out, fr. OF. escrier,
F. s'ecrier. See Ex-, and Cry.]

Defn: A cry or shout. [Obs.] Ld. Berners.

SCUD
Scud, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scudded; p. pr. & vb. n. Scudding.] Etym:
[Dan. skyde to shoot, shove, push, akin to skud shot, gunshot, a
shoot, young bough, and to E. shoot. sq. root159. See Shoot.]

1. To move swiftly; especially, to move as if driven forward by
something.
The first nautilus that scudded upon the glassy surface of warm
primeval oceans. I. Taylor.
The wind was high; the vast white clouds scudded over the blue
heaven. Beaconsfield.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To be driven swiftly, or to run, before a gale, with little or
no sail spread.

SCUD
Scud, v. t.

Defn: To pass over quickly. [R.] Shenstone.

SCUD
Scud, n.

1. The act of scudding; a driving along; a rushing with
precipitation.

2. Loose, vapory clouds driven swiftly by the wind.
Borne on the scud of the sea. Longfellow.
The scud was flying fast above us, throwing a veil over the moon. Sir
S. Baker.

3. A slight, sudden shower. [Prov. Eng.] Wright.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: A small flight of larks, or other birds, less than a flock.
[Prov. Eng.]

5. (Zool.)

Defn: Any swimming amphipod crustacean. Storm scud. See the Note
under Cloud.

SCUDDLE
Scud"dle, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of scud: cf. Scuttle to hurry.]

Defn: To run hastily; to hurry; to scuttle.

SCUDO
Scu"do, n.; pl. Scudi. Etym: [It., a crown, a dollar, a shield, fr.
L. scutum a shield. Cf. Scute.] (Com.)
(a) A silver coin, and money of account, used in Italy and Sicily,
varying in value, in different parts, but worth about 4 shillings
sterling, or about 96 cents; also, a gold coin worth about the same.
(b) A gold coin of Rome, worth 64 shillings 11 pence sterling, or
about $ 15.70.

SCUFF
Scuff, n. Etym: [Cf. D. schoft shoulder, Goth. skuft hair of the
head. Cf. Scruff.]

Defn: The back part of the neck; the scruff. [Prov. Eng.] Ld. Lytton.

SCUFF
Scuff, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scuffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scuffing.] Etym:
[See Scuffle.]

Defn: To walk without lifting the feet; to proceed with a scraping or
dragging movement; to shuffle.

SCUFFLE
Scuf"fle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Scuffled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scuffling.]
Etym: [Freq. of scuff, v.i.; cf. Sw. skuffa to push, shove, skuff a
push, Dan. skuffe a drawer, a shovel, and E. shuffle, shove. See
Shove, and cf. Shuffle.]

1. To strive or struggle with a close grapple; to wrestle in a rough
fashion.

2. Hence, to strive or contend tumultuously; to struggle confusedly
or at haphazard.
A gallant man had rather fight to great disadvantage in the field, in
an orderly way, than scuffle with an undisciplined rabble. Eikon
Basilike.

SCUFFLE
Scuf"fle, n.

1. A rough, haphazard struggle, or trial of strength; a disorderly
wrestling at close quarters.

2. Hence, a confused contest; a tumultuous struggle for superiority;
a fight.
The dog leaps upon the serpent, and tears it to pieces; but in the
scuffle the cradle happened to be overturned. L'Estrange.

3. A child's pinafore or bib. [Prov. Eng.]

4. A garden hoe. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SCUFFLER
Scuf"fler, n.

1. One who scuffles.

2. An agricultural implement resembling a scarifier, but usually
lighter.

SCUG
Scug, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Dan. skugge to darken, a shade, SW. skugga to
shade, a shade, Icel. skuggja to shade, skuggi a shade.]

Defn: To hide. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SCUG
Scug, n.

Defn: A place of shelter; the declivity of a hill. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

SCULK; SCULKER
Sculk, Sculk"er.

Defn: See Skulk, Skulker.

SCULL
Scull, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The skull. [Obs.]

SCULL
Scull, n. Etym: [See 1st School.]

Defn: A shoal of fish. Milton.

SCULL
Scull, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; cf. Icel. skola to wash.]

1. (Naut.)
(a) A boat; a cockboat. See Sculler.
(b) One of a pair of short oars worked by one person.
(c) A single oar used at the stern in propelling a boat.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The common skua gull. [Prov. Eng.]

SCULL
Scull, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sculled; p. pr. & vb. n. Sculling.]
(Naut.)

Defn: To impel (a boat) with a pair of sculls, or with a single scull
or oar worked over the stern obliquely from side to side.

SCULL
Scull, v. i.

Defn: To impel a boat with a scull or sculls.

SCULLER
Scull"er, n.

1. A boat rowed by one man with two sculls, or short oars. [R.]
Dryden.

2. One who sculls.

SCULLERY
Scul"ler*y, n.; pl. Sculleries. Etym: [Probably originally, a place
for washing dishes, and for swillery, fr. OE. swilen to wash, AS.
swilian (see Swill to wash, to drink), but influenced either by Icel.
skola, skyla, Dan. skylle, or by OF. escuelier a place for keeping
dishes, fr. escuele a dish, F. ecuelle, fr. L. scutella a salver,
waiter (cf. Scuttle a basket); or perhaps the English word is
immediately from the OF. escuelier; cf. OE. squyllare a dishwasher.]

1. A place where dishes, kettles, and culinary utensils, are cleaned
and kept; also, a room attached to the kitchen, where the coarse work
is done; a back kitchen.

2. Hence, refuse; fifth; offal. [Obs.] auden.

SCULLION
Scul"lion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A scalion.

SCULLION
Scul"lion, n. Etym: [OF. escouillon (Cot.) a dishclout, apparently
for escouvillon, F. ecouvillon a swab; cf. also OF. souillon a
servant employed for base offices. Cf. Scovel.]

Defn: A servant who cleans pots and kettles, and does other menial
services in the kitchen.
The meanest scullion that followed his camp. South.

SCULLIONLY
Scul"lion*ly, a.

Defn: Like a scullion; base. [Obs.] Milton.

SCULP
Sculp, v. t. Etym: [See Sculptor.]

Defn: To sculpture; to carve; to engrave. [Obs. or Humorous.] Sandys.

SCULPIN
Scul"pin, n. Etym: [Written also skulpin.] (Zool.)
(a) Any one of numerous species of marine cottoid fishes of the genus
Cottus, or Acanthocottus, having a large head armed with sharp
spines, and a broad mouth. They are generally mottled with yellow,
brown, and black. Several species are found on the Atlantic coasts of
Europe and America.
(b) A large cottoid market fish of California (Scorp?nichthys
marmoratus); -- called also bighead, cabezon, scorpion, salpa.
(c) The dragonet, or yellow sculpin, of Europe (Callionymus lura).

Note: The name is also applied to other related California species.
Deep-water sculpin, the sea raven.

SCULPTILE
Sculp"tile, a. Etym: [L. sculptilis. See Sculptor.]

Defn: Formed by carving; graven; as, sculptile images. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

SCULPTOR
Sculp"tor, n. Etym: [L. sculptor, fr. sculpere, sculptum, to carve;
cf. scalpere to cut, carve, scratch, and Gr. sculpteur.]

1. One who sculptures; one whose occupation is to carve statues, or
works of sculpture.

2. Hence, an artist who designs works of sculpture, his first studies
and his finished model being usually in a plastic material, from
which model the marble is cut, or the bronze is cast.

SCULPTRESS
Sculp"tress, n.

Defn: A female sculptor.

SCULPTURAL
Sculp"tur*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sculpture. G. Eliot.

SCULPTURE
Sculp"ture, n. Etym: [L. sculptura: cf. F. sculpture.]

1. The art of carving, cutting, or hewing wood, stone, metal, etc.,
into statues, ornaments, etc., or into figures, as of men, or other
things; hence, the art of producing figures and groups, whether in
plastic or hard materials.

2. Carved work modeled of, or cut upon, wood, stone, metal, etc.
There, too, in living sculpture, might be seen The mad affection of
the Cretan queen. Dryden.

SCULPTURE
Sculp"ture, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sculptured (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sculpturing.]

Defn: To form with the chisel on, in, or from, wood, stone, or metal;
to carve; to engrave. Sculptured tortoise (Zool.), a common North
American wood tortoise (Glyptemys insculpta). The shell is marked
with strong grooving and ridges which resemble sculptured figures.

SCULPTURESQUE
Sculp`tur*esque", a.

Defn: After the manner of sculpture; resembling, or relating to,
sculpture.

SCUM
Scum, n. Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. & Sw. skum, Icel. sk, LG.
schum, D. schuim, OHG. sc, G. schaum; probably from a root meaning,
to cover. sq. root158. Cf. Hide skin, Meerschaum, Skim, v., Sky.]

1. The extraneous matter or impurities which rise to the surface of
liquids in boiling or fermentation, or which form on the surface by
other means; also, the scoria of metals in a molten state; dross.
Some to remove the scum it did rise. Spenser.

2. refuse; recrement; anything vile or worthless.
The great and innocent are insulted by the scum and refuse of the
people. Addison.

SCUM
Scum, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scummed; p. pr. & vb. n. Scumming.]

1. To take the scum from; to clear off the impure matter from the
surface of; to skim.
You that scum the molten lead. Dryden & Lee.

2. To sweep or range over the surface of. [Obs.]
Wandering up and down without certain seat, they lived by scumming
those seas and shores as pirates. Milton.

SCUM
Scum, v. i.

Defn: To form a scum; to become covered with scum. Also used
figuratively.
Life, and the interest of life, have stagnated and scummed over. A.
K. H. Boyd.

SCUMBER
Scum"ber, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Discumber.]

Defn: To void excrement. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Massinger.

SCUMBER
Scum"ber, n.

Defn: Dung. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SCUMBLE
Scum"ble, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scumbled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scumbling.]
Etym: [Freq. of scum. sq. root 158.] (Fine Arts)

Defn: To cover lighty, as a painting, or a drawing, with a thin wash
of opaque color, or with color-crayon dust rubbed on with the stump,
or to make any similar additions to the work, so as to produce a
softened effect.

SCUMBLING
Scum"bling, n.

1. (Fine Arts)
(a) A mode of obtaining a softened effect, in painting and drawing,
by the application of a thin layer of opaque color to the surface of
a painting, or part of the surface, which is too bright in color, or
which requires harmonizing.
(b) In crayon drawing, the use of the stump.

2. The color so laid on. Also used figuratively.
Shining above the brown scumbling of leafless orchards. L. Wallace.

SCUMMER
Scum"mer, v. i.

Defn: To scumber. [Obs.] Holland.

SCUMMER
Scum"mer, n.

Defn: Excrement; scumber. [Obs.]

SCUMMER
Scum"mer, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. escumoire, F. ecumoire. See Scum, and cf.
Skimmer.]

Defn: An instrument for taking off scum; a skimmer.

SCUMMING
Scum"ming, n.
(a) The act of taking off scum.
(b) That which is scummed off; skimmings; scum; -- used chiefly in
the plural.

SCUMMY
Scum"my, a.

Defn: Covered with scum; of the nature of scum. Sir P. Sidney.

SCUNNER
Scun"ner, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Shun.]

Defn: To cause to loathe, or feel disgust at. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

SCUNNER
Scun"ner, v. i.

Defn: To have a feeling of loathing or disgust; hence, to have
dislike, prejudice, or reluctance. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] C. Kingsley.

SCUNNER
Scun"ner, n.

Defn: A feeling of disgust or loathing; a strong prejudice;
abhorrence; as, to take a scunner against some one. [Scot. & Prov.
Eng.] Carlyle.

SCUP
Scup, n. Etym: [D. schop.]

Defn: A swing. [Local, U.S.]

SCUP
Scup, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. American Indian mishcup, fr. mishe-kuppi
large, thick-scaled.] (Zool.)

Defn: A marine sparoid food fish (Stenotomus chrysops, or S.
argyrops), common on the Atlantic coast of the United States. It
appears bright silvery when swimming in the daytime, but shows broad
blackish transverse bands at night and when dead. Called also porgee,
paugy, porgy, scuppaug.

Note: The same names are also applied to a closely allied Southern
species. (Stenotomus Gardeni).

SCUPPAUG
Scup"paug, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. Amer. Indian mishcuppauog, pl. of
mishcup.] (Zool.)

Defn: See 2d Scup.

SCUPPER
Scup"per, n. Etym: [OF. escopir, escupir, to spit, perhaps for
escospir, L. ex + conspuere to spit upon; pref. con- + spuere to
spit. Cf. Spit, v.] (Naut.)

Defn: An opening cut through the waterway and bulwarks of a ship, so
that water falling on deck may flow overboard; -- called also scupper
hole.

Scupper hose (Naut.), a pipe of leather, canvas, etc., attached to
the mouth of the scuppers, on the outside of a vessel, to prevent the
water from entering. Totten.
 -- Scupper nail (Naut.), a nail with a very broad head, for securing
the edge of the hose to the scupper.
 -- Scupper plug (Naut.), a plug to stop a scupper. Totten.

SCUPPERNONG
Scup"per*nong, n. Etym: [Probably of American Indian origin.] (Bot.)

Defn: An American grape, a form of Vitis vulpina, found in the
Southern Atlantic States, and often cultivated.

SCUR
Scur, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Scour to run.]

Defn: To move hastily; to scour. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SCURF
Scurf, n. Etym: [AS. scurf, sceorf, or from Scand.; cf. Sw. skorf,
Dan. skurv, Icel. skurfur, D. schurft, G. schorf; all akin to AS.
scurf, and to AS. sceorfan to scrape, to gnaw, G. schurfen to scrape,
and probably also to E. scrape. Cf. Scurvy.]

1. Thin dry scales or scabs upon the body; especially, thin scales
exfoliated from the cuticle, particularly of the scalp; dandruff.

2. Hence, the foul remains of anything adherent.
The scurf is worn away of each committed crime. Dryden.

3. Anything like flakes or scales adhering to a surface.
There stood a hill not far, whose grisly top Belched fire and rolling
smoke; the rest entire Shone with a glossy scurf. Milton.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Minute membranous scales on the surface of some leaves, as in
the goosefoot. Gray.

SCURFF
Scurff, n.

Defn: The bull trout. [Prov. Eng.]

SCURFINESS
Scurf"i*ness, n.

1. Quality or state of being scurfy.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Scurf.

SCURFY
Scurf"y, a. [Compar. Scurfier; superl. Scurfiest.]

Defn: Having or producing scurf; covered with scurf; resembling
scurf.

SCURRIER
Scur"ri*er, n.

Defn: One who scurries.

SCURRILE
Scur"rile, a. Etym: [L. scurrilis, fr. scurra a bufoon, jester: cf.
F. scurrile.]

Defn: Such as befits a buffoon or vulgar jester; grossly opprobrious
or loudly jocose in language; scurrilous; as, scurrile taunts.
The wretched affectation of scurrile laughter. Cowley.
A scurrile or obscene jest will better advance you at the court of
Charles than father's ancient name. Sir W. Scott.

SCURRILITY
Scur*ril"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. scurrilitas: cf. F.scurrilite.]

1. The quality or state of being scurrile or scurrilous; mean, vile,
or obscene jocularity.
Your reasons . . . have been sharp and sententious, pleasant without
scurrility. Shak.

2. That which is scurrile or scurrilous; gross or obscene language;
low buffoonery; vulgar abuse.
Interrupting prayers and sermons with clamor and scurrility.
Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Scurrilousness; abuse; insolence; vulgarity; indecency.

SCURRILOUS
Scur"ril*ous, a. Etym: [See Scurrile.]

1. Using the low and indecent language of the meaner sort of people,
or such as only the license of buffoons can warrant; as, a scurrilous
fellow.

2. Containing low indecency or abuse; mean; foul; vile; obscenely
jocular; as, scurrilous language.
The absurd and scurrilous sermon which had very unwisely been honored
with impeachment. Macaulay.

Syn.
 -- Opprobrious; abusive; reproachful; insulting; insolent;
offensive; gross; vile; vulgar; low; foul; foul-mounthed; indecent;
scurrile; mean.
 -- Scur"ril*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Scur"ril*ous*ness, n.

SCURRIT
Scur"rit, n. (Zool.)

Defn: the lesser tern (Sterna minuta). [Prov. Eng.]

SCURRY
Scur"ry, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Scur, Skirr.]

Defn: To hasten away or along; to move rapidly; to hurry; as, the
rabbit scurried away.

SCURRY
Scur"ry, n.

Defn: Act of scurring; hurried movement.

SCURVILY
Scur"vi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a scurvy manner.

SCURVINESS
Scur"vi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being scurvy; vileness; meanness.

SCURVY
Scur"vy, a. [Compar. Scurvier; superl. Scurviest.] Etym: [From Scurf;
cf. Scurvy, n.]

1. Covered or affected with scurf or scabs; scabby; scurfy;
specifically, diseased with the scurvy. "Whatsoever man . . . be
scurvy or scabbed." lev. xxi. 18, 20.

2. Vile; mean; low; vulgar; contemptible. "A scurvy trick." Ld.
Lytton.
That scurvy custom of taking tobacco. Swift.
[He] spoke spoke such scurvy and provoking terms. Shak.

SCURVY
Scur"vy, n. Etym: [Probably from the same source as scirbute, but
influenced by scurf, scurfy, scurvy, adj.; cf. D. scheurbuik scurvy,
G. scharbock, LL. scorbutus. Cf. Scorbute.] (Med.)

Defn: A disease characterized by livid spots, especially about the
thighs and legs, due to extravasation of blood, and by spongy gums,
and bleeding from almost all the mucous membranes. It is accompanied
by paleness, languor, depression, and general debility. It is
occasioned by confinement, innutritious food, and hard labor, but
especially by lack of fresh vegetable food, or confinement for a long
time to a limited range of food, which is incapable of repairing the
waste of the system. It was formerly prevalent among sailors and
soldiers. Scurvy grass Etym: [Scurvy + grass; or cf. Icel. skarfakal
scurvy grass.] (Bot.) A kind of cress (Cochlearia officinalis)
growing along the seacoast of Northern Europe and in arctic regions.
It is a remedy for the scurvy, and has proved a valuable food to
arctic explorers. The name is given also to other allied species of
plants.

SCUT
Scut, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. skott a fox's tail. sq. root 159.] [Obs.]

Defn: The tail of a hare, or of a deer, or other animal whose tail is
short, sp. when carried erect; hence, sometimes, the animal itself.
"He ran like a scut." Skelton.
How the Indian hare came to have a long tail, wheras that part in
others attains no higher than a scut. Sir T. Browne.
My doe with the black scut. Shak.

SCUTA
Scu"ta, n. pl.

Defn: See Scutum.

SCUTAGE
Scu"tage (; 48), n. Etym: [LL. scutagium, from L. scutum a shield.]
(Eng. Hist.)

Defn: Shield money; commutation of service for a sum of money. See
Escuage.

SCUTAL
Scu"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a shield.
A good example of these scutal monstrosities. Cussans.

SCUTATE
Scu"tate, a. Etym: [L. scutatus armed with a shield, from scutum a
shield.]

1. Buckler-shaped; round or nearly round.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Protected or covered by bony or horny plates, or large scales.

SCUTCH
Scutch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scutched; p. pr. & vb. n. Scutching.]
Etym: [See Scotch to cut slightly.]

1. To beat or whip; to drub. [Old or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

2. To separate the woody fiber from (flax, hemp, etc.) by beating; to
swingle.

3. To loosen and dress the fiber of (cotton or silk) by beating; to
free (fibrous substances) from dust by beating and blowing. Scutching
machine, a machine used to scutch cotton, silk, or flax; -- called
also batting machine.

SCUTCH
Scutch, n.

1. A wooden instrument used in scutching flax and hemp.

2. The woody fiber of flax; the refuse of scutched flax. "The smoke
of the burning scutch." Cuthbert Bede.

SCUTCHEON
Scutch"eon, n. Etym: [Aphetic form of escutcheon.]

1. An escutcheon; an emblazoned shield. Bacon.
The corpse lay in state, with all the pomp of scutcheons, wax lights,
black hangings, and mutes. Macaulay.

2. A small plate of metal, as the shield around a keyhole. See
Escutcheon, 4.

SCUTCHEONED
Scutch"eoned, a.

Defn: Emblazoned on or as a shield.
Scutcheoned panes in cloisters old. Lowell.

SCUTCHER
Scutch"er, n.

1. One who scutches.

2. An implement or machine for scutching hemp, flax, or cotton; etc.;
a scutch; a scutching machine.

SCUTCH GRASS
Scutch" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of pasture grass (Cynodon Dactylon). See Bermuda grass:
also Illustration in Appendix.

SCUTE
Scute, n. Etym: [L. scutum a shield, a buckler. See Scudo.]

1. A small shield. [Obs.] Skelton.

2. An old French gold coin of the value of 3s. 4d. sterling, or about
80 cents.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A bony scale of a reptile or fish; a large horny scale on the
leg of a bird, or on the belly of a snake.

SCUTELLA
Scu*tel"la, n. pl.

Defn: See Scutellum.

SCUTELLA
Scu*tel"la, n.; pl. Scutelle. Etym: [NL., fem. dim. of L. scutum.]
(Zool.)

Defn: See Scutellum, n., 2.

SCUTELLATE; SCUTELLATED
Scu"tel*late, Scu"tel*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. scutella a dish, salver.
Cf. Scuttle a basket.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Formed like a plate or salver; composed of platelike surfaces;
as, the scutellated bone of a sturgeon. Woodward.

2. Etym: [See Scutellum.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having the tarsi covered with broad transverse scales, or
scutella; -- said of certain birds.

SCUTELLATION
Scu`tel*la"tion, n. (Zool.)

Defn: the entire covering, or mode of arrangement, of scales, as on
the legs and feet of a bird.

SCUTELLIFORM
Scu*tel"li*form, a. Etym: [L. scutella a dish + -form.]

1. Scutellate.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a scutellum.

SCUTELLIPLANTAR
Scu*tel`li*plan"tar, a. Etym: [L. scutellus a shield + planta foot.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Having broad scutella on the front, and small scales on the
posterior side, of the tarsus; -- said of certain birds.

SCUTELLUM
Scu*tel"lum, n.; pl. Scutella. Etym: [NL., neut. dim. of L. scutum a
shield.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A rounded apothecium having an elevated rim formed of the
proper thallus, the fructification of certain lichens.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The third of the four pieces forming the upper part of a thoracic
segment of an insect. It follows the scutum, and is followed by the
small postscutellum; a scutella. See Thorax.
(b) One of the transverse scales on the tarsi and toes of birds; a
scutella.

SCUTIBRANCH
Scu"ti*branch, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Scutibranchiate.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Scutibranchiata.

SCUTIBRANCHIA
Scu`ti*bran"chi*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scutibranchiata.

SCUTIBRANCHIAN
Scu`ti*bran"chi*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Scutibranchiata.

SCUTIBRANCHIATA
Scu`ti*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Scutum, and Branchia.]
(Zool.)

Defn: An order of gastropod Mollusca having a heart with two auricles
and one ventricle. The shell may be either spiral or shieldlike.

Note: It is now usually regarded as including only the Rhipidoglossa
and the Docoglossa. When originally established, it included a
heterogenous group of mollusks having shieldlike shells, such as
Haliotis, Fissurella, Carinaria, etc.

SCUTIBRANCHIATE
Scu`ti*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the gills protected by a shieldlike shell; of or
pertaining to the Scutibranchiata.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Scutibranchiata.

SCUTIFEROUS
Scu*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. scutum shield + -ferous.]

Defn: Carrying a shield or buckler.

SCUTIFORM
Scu"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. scutum shield + -form: cf. F. scutiforme.]

Defn: Shield-shaped; scutate.

SCUTIGER
Scu"ti*ger, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. scutum shield + gerere to bear.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Any species of chilopod myriapods of the genus Scutigera. They
sometimes enter buildings and prey upon insects.

SCUTIPED
Scu"ti*ped, a. Etym: [L. scutum a shield + pes, pedis, a foot: cf. F.
scutipede.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having the anterior surface of the tarsus covered with
scutella, or transverse scales, in the form of incomplete bands
terminating at a groove on each side; -- said of certain birds.

SCUTTER
Scut"ter, v. i. [Cf. Scuttle, v. i.]

Defn: To run quickly; to scurry; to scuttle. [Prov. Eng.]

A mangy little jackal . . . cocked up his ears and tail, and
scuttered across the shallows.
Kipling.

SCUTTLE
Scut"tle, n. Etym: [AS. scutel a dish, platter; cf. Icel. skutill;
both fr. L. scutella, dim. of scutra, scuta, a dish or platter; cf.
scutum a shield. Cf. Skillet.]

1. A broad, shallow basket.

2. A wide-mouthed vessel for holding coal: a coal hod.

SCUTTLE
Scut"tle, v. i. Etym: [For scuddle, fr. scud.]

Defn: To run with affected precipitation; to hurry; to bustle; to
scuddle.
With the first dawn of day, old Janet was scuttling about the house
to wake the baron. Sir W. Scott.

SCUTTLE
Scut"tle, n.

Defn: A quick pace; a short run. Spectator.

SCUTTLE
Scut"tle, n. Etym: [OF. escoutille, F. escoutille, cf. Sp. escotilla;
probably akin to Sp. escoter to cut a thing so as to make it fit, to
hollow a garment about the neck, perhaps originally, to cut a bosom-
shaped piece out, and of Teutonic origin; cf. D. schoot lap, bosom,
G. schoss, Goth. skauts the hem of a garnment. Cf. Sheet an expanse.]

1. A small opening in an outside wall or covering, furnished with a
lid. Specifically:
(a) (Naut.) A small opening or hatchway in the deck of a ship, large
enough to admit a man, and with a lid for covering it, also, a like
hole in the side or bottom of a ship.
(b) An opening in the roof of a house, with a lid.

2. The lid or door which covers or closes an opening in a roof, wall,
or the like. Scuttle butt, or Scuttle cask (Naut.), a butt or cask
with a large hole in it, used to contain the fresh water for daily
use in a ship. Totten.

SCUTTLE
Scut"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Scuttled; p. pr. & vb. n. Scuttling.]

1. To cut a hole or holes through the bottom, deck, or sides of (as
of a ship), for any purpose.

2. To sink by making holes through the bottom of; as, to scuttle a
ship.

SCUTUM
Scu"tum, n.; pl. Scuta. Etym: [L.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An oblong shield made of boards or wickerwork covered with
leather, with sometimes an iron rim; -- carried chiefly by the heavy-
armed infantry.

2. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A penthouse or awning. [Obs.] Burrill.

3. (Zool.)
(a) The second and largest of the four parts forming the upper
surface of a thoracic segment of an insect. It is preceded by the
prescutum and followed by the scutellum. See the Illust. under
Thorax.
(b) One of the two lower valves of the operculum of a barnacle.

SCYBALA
Scyb"a*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Hardened masses of feces.

SCYE
Scye, n.

Defn: Arm scye, a cutter's term for the armhole or part of the
armhole of the waist of a garnment. [Cant]

SCYLE
Scyle, v. t. Etym: [AS. scylan to withdraw or remowe.]

Defn: To hide; to secrete; to conceal. [Obs.]

SCYLLA
Scyl"la, n.

Defn: A dangerous rock on the Italian coast opposite the whirpool
Charybdis on the coast of Sicily, -- both personified in classical
literature as ravenous monsters. The passage between them was
formerly considered perilous; hence, the saying "Between Scylla and
Charybdis," signifying a great peril on either hand.

SCYLLAEA
Scyl*l?"a, n. Etym: [NL. See Scylla.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of oceanic nudibranchiate mollusks having the small
branched gills situated on the upper side of four fleshy lateral
lobes, and on the median caudal crest.

Note: In color and form these mollusks closely imitate the fronds of
sargassum and other floathing seaweeds among which they live.

SCYLLARIAN
Scyl*la"ri*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of a family (Scyllarid?) of macruran Crustacea, remarkable
for the depressed form of the body, and the broad, flat antenn?. Also
used adjectively.

SCYLLITE
Scyl"lite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline substance of a sweetish taste, resembling
inosite and metameric with dextrose. It is extracted from the kidney
of the dogfish (of the genus Scylium), the shark, and the skate.

SCYMETAR
Scym"e*tar, n.

Defn: See Scimiter.

SCYPHA
Scy"pha, n.; pl. Scyphae. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Scyphus, 2 (b).

SCYPHIFORM
Scy"phi*form, a. Etym: [L. scyphus a cup + -form.] (Bot.)

Defn: Cup-shaped.

SCYPHISTOMA
Scy*phis"to*ma, n.; pl. Scyphistomata, Scyphistom?. Etym: [NL., fr.
Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: The young attached larva of Discophora in the stage when it
resembles a hydroid, or actinian.

SCYPHOBRANCHII
Scy`pho*bran"chi*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of fishes including the blennioid and gobioid fishes,
and other related families.

SCYPHOMEDUSA; SCYPHOMEDUSAE
Scy`pho*me*du"sa, Scy`pho*me*du"sae, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.
medusa.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Acraspeda, or Discophora.

SCYPHOPHORI
Scy*phoph"o*ri, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of fresh-water fishes inhabiting tropical Africa. They
have rudimentary electrical organs on each side of the tail.

SCYPHUS
Scy"phus, n.; pl. Scyphi. Etym: [L., a cup, Gr.

1. (Antiq.)

Defn: A kind of large drinking cup, -- used by Greeks and Romans,
esp. by poor folk.

2. (Bot.)
(a) The cup of a narcissus, or a similar appendage to the corolla in
other flowers.
(b) A cup-shaped stem or podetium in lichens. Also called scypha. See
Illust. of Cladonia pyxidata, under Lichen.

SCYTHE
Scythe (sith), n. Etym: [OE. sithe, AS. si\'ebe, sigthe; akin to
Icel. sigthr a sickle, LG. segd, seged, seed, seid, OHG. segansa
sickle, scythe, G. sense scythe, and to E. saw a cutting instrument.
See Saw.] [Written also sithe and sythe.]

1. An instrument for mowing grass, grain, or the like, by hand,
composed of a long, curving blade, with a sharp edge, made fast to a
long handle, called a snath, which is bent into a form convenient for
use.
The sharp-edged scythe shears up the spiring grass. Dryden.
The scythe of Time mows down. Milton.

2. (Antiq.)

Defn: A scythe-shaped blade attached to ancient war chariots.

SCYTHE
Scythe, v. t.

Defn: To cut with a scythe; to cut off as with a scythe; to mow.
[Obs.]
Time had not scythed all that youth begun. Shak.

SCYTHED
Scythed, a.

Defn: Armed scythes, as a chariot.
Chariots scythed, On thundering axles rolled. Glover.

SCYTHEMAN
Scythe"man, n.; pl. Scythemen (.

Defn: One who uses a scythe; a mower. Macaulay.

SCYTHESTONE
Scythe"stone`, n.

Defn: A stone for sharpening scythes; a whetstone.

SCYTHEWHET
Scythe"whet`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Wilson's thrush; -- so called from its note. [Local, U.S.]

SCYTHIAN
Scyth"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Scythia (a name given to the northern part
of Asia, and Europe adjoining to Asia), or its language or
inhabitants. Scythian lamb. (Bot.) See Barometz.

SCYTHIAN
Scyth"i*an, n.

1. A native or inhabitant of Scythia; specifically (Ethnol.), one of
a Slavonic race which in early times occupied Eastern Europe.

2. The language of the Scythians.

SCYTODERMATA
Scy`to*der"ma*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Holothurioidea.

SDAIN
Sdain, v. & n.

Defn: Disdain. [Obs.] Spenser.

'SDEATH
'Sdeath, interj. Etym: [Corrupted fr. God's death.]

Defn: An exclamation expressive of impatience or anger. Shak.

SDEIGN
Sdeign, v. t.

Defn: To disdain. [Obs.]
But either sdeigns with other to partake. Spenser.

SEA
Sea, n. Etym: [OE. see, AS. s?; akin to D. zee, OS. & OHG. seo, G.
see, OFries. se, Dan. so, Sw. sjo, Icel. s?r, Goth. saiws, and
perhaps to L. saevus firce, savage. sq. root 151 a.]

1. One of the larger bodies of salt water, less than an ocean, found
on the earth's surface; a body of salt water of second rank,
generally forming part of, or connecting with, an ocean or a larger
sea; as, the Mediterranean Sea; the Sea of Marmora; the North Sea;
the Carribean Sea.

2. An inland body of water, esp. if large or if salt or brackish; as,
the Caspian Sea; the Sea of Aral; sometimes, a small fresh-water
lake; as, the Sea of Galilee.

3. The ocean; the whole body of the salt water which covers a large
part of the globe.
I marvel how the fishes live in the sea. Shak.
Ambiguous between sea and land The river horse and scaly crocodile.
Milton.

4. The swell of the ocean or other body of water in a high wind;
motion of the water's surface; also, a single wave; a billow; as,
there was a high sea after the storm; the vessel shipped a sea.

5. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: A great brazen laver in the temple at Jerusalem; -- so called
from its size.
He made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in
compass, and five cubits the height thereof. 2 Chron. iv. 2.

6. Fig.: Anything resembling the sea in vastness; as, a sea of glory.
Shak.
All the space . . . was one sea of heads. Macaulay.

Note: Sea is often used in the composition of words of obvious
signification; as, sea-bathed, sea-beaten, sea-bound, sea-bred, sea-
circled, sealike, sea-nursed, sea-tossed, sea-walled, sea-worn, and
the like. It is also used either adjectively or in combination with
substantives; as, sea bird, sea-bird, or seabird, sea acorn, or sea-
acorn. At sea, upon the ocean; away from land; figuratively, without
landmarks for guidance; lost; at the mercy of circumstances. "To say
the old man was at sea would be too feeble an expression." G. W.
Cable -- At full sea at the height of flood tide; hence, at the
height. "But now God's mercy was at full sea." Jer. Taylor.
 -- Beyond seas, or Beyond the sea or the seas (Law), out of the
state, territory, realm, or country. Wharton.
 -- Half seas over, half drunk. [Colloq.] Spectator.
 -- Heavy sea, a sea in which the waves run high.
 -- Long sea, a sea characterized by the uniform and steady motion of
long and extensive waves.
 -- Short sea, a sea in which the waves are short, broken, and
irregular, so as to produce a tumbling or jerking motion.
 -- To go to sea, a adopt the calling or occupation of a sailor.

SEA ACORN
Sea" a"corn. (Zool.)

Defn: An acorn barnacle (Balanus).

SEA ADDER
Sea" ad"der. (Zool.)
(a) The European fifteen-spined stickleback (Gasterosteus spinachia);
-- called also bismore.
(b) The European tanglefish, or pipefish (Syngnathus acus).

SEA ANCHOR
Sea" an"chor. (Naut.)

Defn: See Drag sail, under 4th Drag.

SEA ANEMONE
Sea" a*nem"o*ne. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of soft-bodied Anthozoa, belonging
to the order Actrinaria; an actinian.

Note: They have the oral disk surrounded by one or more circles of
simple tapering tentacles, which are often very numerous, and when
expanded somewhat resemble the petals of flowers, with colors varied
and often very beautiful.

SEA APE
Sea" ape`. (Zool.)
(a) The thrasher shark.
(b) The sea otter.

SEA APPLE
Sea" ap"ple. (Bot.)

Defn: The fruit of a West Indian palm (Manicaria Plukenetii), often
found floating in the sea. A. Grisebach.

SEA ARROW
Sea" ar"row. (Zool.)

Defn: A squid of the genus Ommastrephes. See Squid.

SEA BANK
Sea" bank`.

1. The seashore. Shak.

2. A bank or mole to defend against the sea.

SEA-BAR
Sea"-bar`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A tern.

SEA BARROW
Sea" bar"row. (Zool.)

Defn: A sea purse.

SEA BASS
Sea" bass`.

Defn: ((Zool.) (a) A large marine food fish (Serranus, or
Centropristis, atrarius) which abounds on the Atlantic coast of the
United States. It is dark bluish, with black bands, and more or less
varied with small white spots and blotches. Called also, locally,
blue bass, black sea bass, blackfish, bluefish, and black perch. (b)
A California food fish (Cynoscion nobile); -- called also white sea
bass, and sea salmon.

SEA BAT
Sea" bat`. (Zool.)

Defn: See Batfish (a).

SEABEACH
Sea"beach`, n.

Defn: A beach lying along the sea. "The bleak seabeach." Longfellow.

SEA BEAN
Sea" bean. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Florida bean.

SEA BEAR
Sea" bear`. (Zool.)
(a) Any fur seal. See under Fur.
(b) The white bear.

SEABEARD
Sea"beard`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A green seaweed (Cladophora rupestris) growing in dense tufts.

SEA BEAST
Sea" beast`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any large marine mammal, as a seal, walrus, or cetacean.

SEA BIRD
Sea" bird`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any swimming bird frequenting the sea; a sea fowl.

SEA BLITE
Sea" blite`. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Su?da maritima) of the Goosefoot family, growing in
salt marches.

SEA-BLUBBER
Sea"-blub"ber, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A jellyfish.

SEABOARD
Sea"board`, n. Etym: [Sea + board, F. bord side.]

Defn: The seashore; seacoast. Ld. Berners.

SEABOARD
Sea"board`, a.

Defn: Bordering upon, or being near, the sea; seaside; seacoast; as,
a seaboard town.

SEABOARD
Sea"board`, adv.

Defn: Toward the sea. [R.]

SEABOAT
Sea"boat`. Etym: [AS. s?bat.]

1. A boat or vessel adapted to the open sea; hence, a vessel
considered with reference to her power of resisting a storm, or
maintaining herself in a heavy sea; as, a good sea boat.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A chitin.

SEABORD
Sea"bord`, n. & a.

Defn: See Seaboard.

SEA-BORDERING
Sea"-bor"der*ing, a.

Defn: Bordering on the sea; situated beside the sea. Drayton.

SEA-BORN
Sea"-born`, a.

1. Born of the sea; produced by the sea. "Neptune and his sea-born
niece." Waller.

2. Born at sea.

SEABOUND
Sea"bound`, a.

Defn: Bounded by the sea.

SEA BOW
Sea" bow`.

Defn: See Marine rainbow, under Rainbow.

SEA BOY
Sea" boy`.

Defn: A boy employed on shipboard.

SEA BREACH
Sea" breach`.

Defn: A breaking or overflow of a bank or a dike by the sea.
L'Estrange.

SEA BREAM
Sea" bream`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of sparoid fishes, especially the
common European species (Pagellus centrodontus), the Spanish (P.
Oweni), and the black sea bream (Cantharus lineatus); -- called also
old wife.

SEA BRIEF
Sea" brief`.

Defn: Same as Sea letter.

SEA BUG
Sea" bug`. (Zool.)

Defn: A chiton.

SEA-BUILT
Sea"-built`, a.

Defn: Built at, in, or by the sea.

SEA BUTTERFLY
Sea" but"ter*fly`. (Zool.)

Defn: A pteropod.

SEA CABBAGE
Sea" cab"bage (; 48). (Bot.)

Defn: See Sea kale, under Kale.

SEA CALF
Sea" calf`. (Zool.)

Defn: The common seal.

SEA CANARY
Sea" ca*na"ry. Etym: [So called from a whistling sound which it
makes.] (Zool.)

Defn: The beluga, or white whale.

SEA CAPTAIN
Sea" cap"tain.

Defn: The captain of a vessel that sails upon the sea.

SEA CARD
Sea" card`.

Defn: Mariner's card, or compass.

SEA CATFISH; SEA CAT
Sea" cat`fish. Sea" cat`. (Zool.)
(a) The wolf fish.
(b) Any marine siluroid fish, as ?lurichthys marinus, and Arinus
felis, of the eastern coast of the United States. Many species are
found on the coasts of Central and South America.

SEA CHART
Sea" chart`.

Defn: A chart or map on which the lines of the shore, islands,
shoals, harbors, etc., are delineated.

SEA CHICKWEED
Sea" chick"weed`. (Bot.)

Defn: A fleshy plant (Arenaria peploides) growing in large tufts in
the sands of the northern Atlantic seacoast; -- called also sea
sandwort, and sea purslane.

SEA CLAM
Sea" clam`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of the large bivalve mollusks found on the open
seacoast, especially those of the family Mactrid?, as the common
American species. (Mactra, or Spisula, solidissima); -- called also
beach clam, and surf clam.

SEA COAL
Sea" coal`.

Defn: Coal brought by sea; -- a name by which mineral coal was
formerly designated in the south of England, in distinction from
charcoal, which was brought by land. Sea-coal facing (Founding),
facing consisting of pulverized bituminous coal.

SEACOAST
Sea"coast`, n.

Defn: The shore or border of the land adjacent to the sea or ocean.
Also used adjectively.

SEA COB
Sea" cob`. (Zool.)

Defn: The black-backed gull.

SEA COCK
Sea" cock`.

1. In a steamship, a cock or valve close to the vessel's side, for
closing a pipe which communicates with the sea.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The black-bellied plover.
(b) A gurnard, as the European red gurnard (Trigla pini).

SEA COCOA
Sea" co"coa. (Bot.)

Defn: A magnificent palm (Lodoicea Sechellarum) found only in the
Seychelles Islands. The fruit is an immense two-lobed nut. It was
found floating in the Indian Ocean before the tree was known, and
called sea cocoanut, and double cocoanut.

SEA COLANDER
Sea" col"an*der. (Bot.)

Defn: A large blackfish seaweed (Agarum Turneri), the frond of which
is punctured with many little holes.

SEA COLEWORT
Sea" cole"wort`. (Bot.)

Defn: Sea cabbage.

SEA COMPASS
Sea" com"pass.

Defn: The mariner's compass. See under Compass.

SEA COOT
Sea" coot`. (Zool.)

Defn: A scoter duck.

SEA CORN
Sea" corn`. (Zool.)

Defn: A yellow cylindrical mass of egg capsule of certain species of
whelks (Buccinum), which resembles an ear of maize.

SEA COW
Sea" cow`. (Zool.)
(a) The mantee.
(b) The dugong.
(c) The walrus.

SEA CRAWFISH; SEA CRAYFISH
Sea" craw"fish`. Sea" cray"fish`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any crustacean of the genus Palinurus and allied genera, as the
European spiny lobster (P. vulgaris), which is much used as an
article of food. See Lobster.

SEA CROW
Sea" crow`. (Zool.)
(a) The chough. [Ireland]
(b) The cormorant.
(c) The blackheaded pewit, and other gulls.
(d) The skua.
(e) The razorbill. [Orkney Islands]
(f) The coot.

SEA CUCUMBER
Sea" cu"cum*ber. (Zool.)

Defn: Any large holothurian, especially one of those belonging to the
genus Pentacta, or Cucumaria, as the common American and European
species. (P. frondosa).

SEA DACE
Sea" dace`. (Zool.)

Defn: The European sea perch.

SEA DAFFODIL
Sea" daf"fo*dil. (Bot.)

Defn: A European amarylidaceous plant (Pancratium maritimum).

SEA DEVIL
Sea" dev`il (Zool.)
(a) Any very large ray, especially any species of the genus Manta or
Cepholoptera, some of which become more than twenty feet across and
weigh several tons. See also Ox ray, under Ox.
(b) Any large cephalopod, as a large Octopus, or a giant squid
(Architeuthis). See Devilfish.
(c) The angler.

SEA DOG
Sea" dog`.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: The dogfish.
(b) The common seal.

2. An old sailor; a salt. [Colloq.]

SEA DOTTEREL
Sea" dot"ter*el. (Zool.)

Defn: The turnstone.

SEA DOVE
Sea" dove`. (Zool.)

Defn: The little auk, or rotche. See Illust. of Rotche.

SEA DRAGON
Sea" drag"on. (Zool.)
(a) A dragonet, or sculpin.
(b) The pegasus.

SEA DRAKE
Sea" drake`. (Zool.)

Defn: The pewit gull.

SEA DUCK
Sea" duck`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of ducks which frequent the
seacoasts and feed mainly on fishes and mollusks. The scoters,
eiders, old squaw, and ruddy duck are examples. They may be
distinguished by the lobate hind toe.

SEA EAGLE
Sea" ea"gle.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of fish-eating eagles of the genus
Hali?etus and allied genera, as the North Pacific sea eagle. (H.
pelagicus), which has white shoulders, head, rump, and tail; the
European white-tailed eagle (H. albicilla); and the Indian white-
tailed sea eagle, or fishing eagle (Polioaetus ichthyaetus). The bald
eagle and the osprey are also sometimes classed as sea eagles.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The eagle ray. See under Ray.

SEA-EAR
Sea"-ear`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of ear-shaped shells of the genus Haliotis. See
Abalone.

SEA EEL
Sea" eel`. (Zool.)

Defn: The conger eel.

SEA EGG
Sea" egg`. (Zool.)

Defn: A sea urchin.

SEA ELEPHANT
Sea" el"e*phant. (Zool.)

Defn: A very large seal (Macrorhinus proboscideus) of the Antarctic
seas, much hunted for its oil. It sometimes attains a length of
thirty feet, and is remarkable for the prolongation of the nose of
the adult male into an erectile elastic proboscis, about a foot in
length. Another species of smaller size (M. angustirostris) occurs on
the coast of Lower California, but is now nearly extinct.

SEA FAN
Sea" fan". (Zool.)

Defn: Any gorgonian which branches in a fanlike form, especially
Gorgonia flabellum of Florida and the West Indies.

SEAFARER
Sea"far`er, n. Etym: [Sea + fare.]

Defn: One who follows the sea as a business; a mariner; a sailor.

SEAFARING
Sea"far`ing, a.

Defn: Following the business of a mariner; as, a seafaring man.

SEA FEATHER
Sea" feath"er. (Zool.)

Defn: Any gorgonian which branches in a plumelike form.

SEA FENNEL
Sea" fen"nel. (Bot.)

Defn: Samphire.

SEA FERN
Sea" fern". (Zool.)

Defn: Any gorgonian which branches like a fern.

SEA FIGHT
Sea" fight`.

Defn: An engagement between ships at sea; a naval battle.

SEA FIR
Sea" fir`. (Zool.)

Defn: A sertularian hydroid, especially Sertularia abietina, which
branches like a miniature fir tree.

SEA FLOWER
Sea" flow"er. (Zool.)

Defn: A sea anemone, or any related anthozoan.

SEA FOAM
Sea" foam`.

1. Foam of sea water.

2. (Min.)

Defn: Meerschaum; -- called also sea froth.

SEA FOWL
Sea" fowl`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any bird which habitually frequents the sea, as an auk, gannet,
gull, tern, or petrel; also, all such birds, collectively.

SEA FOX
Sea" fox`. (Zool.)

Defn: The thrasher shark. See Thrasher.

SEA FROTH
Sea" froth`.

Defn: See Sea foam, 2.

SEA-GATE; SEA-GAIT
Sea"-gate`, Sea"-gait`, n.

Defn: A long, rolling swell of the sea. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

SEA GAUGE
Sea" gauge`.

Defn: See under Gauge, n.

SEA GHERKIN; SEA GIRKIN
Sea" gher`kin, or; Sea" gir"kin. (Zool.)

Defn: Any small holothurian resembling in form a gherkin.

SEA GINGER
Sea" gin"ger. (Zool.)

Defn: A hydroid coral of the genus Millepora, especially M.
alcicornis, of the West Indies and Florida. So called because it
stings the tongue like ginger. See Illust. under Millepore.

SEA GIRDLES
Sea" gir"dles. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of kelp (Laminaria digitata) with palmately cleft
fronds; -- called also sea wand, seaware, and tangle.

SEAGIRT
Sea"girt`, a.

Defn: Surrounded by the water of the sea or ocean; as, a seagirt
isle. Milton.

SEA GOD
Sea" god`.

Defn: A marine deity; a fabulous being supposed to live in, or have
dominion over, the sea, or some particular sea or part of the sea, as
Neptune.

SEA GODDESS
Sea" god"dess.

Defn: A goddess supposed to live in or reign over the sea, or some
part of the sea.

SEAGOING
Sea"go`ing, a.

Defn: Going upon the sea; especially, sailing upon the deep sea; --
used in distinction from coasting or river, as applied to vessels.

SEA GOOSE
Sea" goose`. (Zool.)

Defn: A phalarope.

SEA GOWN
Sea" gown`.

Defn: A gown or frock with short sleeves, formerly worn by mariners.
Shak.

SEA GRAPE
Sea" grape`.

1. (Bot.)
(a) The gulf weed. See under Gulf.
(b) A shrubby plant (Coccoloba uvifera) growing on the sandy shores
of tropical America, somewhat resembling the grapevine.

2. pl. (Zool.)

Defn: The clusters of gelatinous egg capsules of a squid (Loligo).

SEA GRASS
Sea" grass`. (Bot.)

Defn: Eelgrass.

SEA GREEN
Sea" green`.

Defn: The green color of sea water.

SEA-GREEN
Sea"-green`, a.

Defn: Of a beautiful bluish green color, like sea water on soundings.

SEA GUDGEON
Sea" gud"geon. (Zool.)

Defn: The European black goby (Gobius niger).

SEA GULL
Sea" gull`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any gull living on the seacoast.

SEAH
Se"ah, n.

Defn: A Jewish dry measure containing one third of an an ephah.

SEA HARE
Sea" hare`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any tectibranchiate mollusk of the genus Aplysia. See Aplysia.

SEA HAWK
Sea" hawk`. (Zool.)

Defn: A jager gull.

SEA HEATH
Sea" heath`. (Bot.)

Defn: A low perennial plant (Frankenia l?vis) resembling heath,
growing along the seashore in Europe.

SEA HEDGEHOG
Sea" hedge"hog`. (Zool.)

Defn: A sea urchin.

SEA HEN
Sea" hen`. (Zool.)

Defn: the common guillemot; -- applied also to various other sea
birds.

SEA HOG
Sea" hog`. (Zool.)

Defn: The porpoise.

SEA HOLLY
Sea" hol"ly. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergeen seashore plant (Eryngium maritimum). See Eryngium.

SEA HOLM
Sea" holm`.

Defn: A small uninhabited island.

SEA HOLM
Sea" holm`. (Bot.)

Defn: Sea holly.

SEA HORSE
Sea" horse`.

1. A fabulous creature, half horse and half fish, represented in
classic mythology as driven by sea dogs or ridden by the Nereids. It
is also depicted in heraldry. See Hippocampus.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The walrus.
(b) Any fish of the genus Hippocampus.

Note: In a passage of Dryden's, the word is supposed to refer to the
hippopotamus.

SEA HULVER
Sea" hul"ver. (Bot.)

Defn: Sea holly.

SEA-ISLAND
Sea"-is`land, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to certain islands along the coast of South
Carolina and Georgia; as, sea-island cotton, a superior cotton of
long fiber produced on those islands.

SEA JELLY
Sea" jel"ly. (Zool.)

Defn: A medusa, or jellyfish.

SEAK
Seak, n.

Defn: Soap prepared for use in milling cloth.

SEA KALE
Sea" kale". (Bot.)

Defn: See under Kale.

SEA KING
Sea" king`.

Defn: One of the leaders among the Norsemen who passed their lives in
roving the seas in search of plunder and adventures; a Norse pirate
chief. See the Note under Viking.

SEAL
Seal, n. Etym: [OE. sele, AS. seolh; akin to OHG. selah, Dan. s?l,
Sw. sjal, Icel. selr.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any aquatic carnivorous mammal of the families Phocid? and
Otariid?.

Note: Seals inhabit seacoasts, and are found principally in the
higher latitudes of both hemispheres. There are numerous species,
bearing such popular names as sea lion, sea leopard, sea bear, or
ursine seal, fur seal, and sea elephant. The bearded seal (Erignathus
barbatus), the hooded seal (Cystophora crustata), and the ringed seal
(Phoca foetida), are northern species. See also Eared seal, Harp
seal, and Fur seal, under Eared, Harp, Monk, and Fur. Seals are much
hunted for their skins and fur, and also for their oil, which in some
species is very abundant. Harbor seal (Zool.), the common seal (Phoca
vitulina). It inhabits both the North Atlantic and the North Pacific
Ocean, and often ascends rivers; -- called also marbled seal, native
seal, river seal, bay seal, land seal, sea calf, sea cat, sea dog,
dotard, ranger, selchie, tangfish.

SEAL
Seal, n. Etym: [OE. seel, OF. seel, F. sceau, fr. L. sigillum a
little figure or image, a seal, dim. of signum a mark, sign, figure,
or image. See Sign, n., and cf. Sigil.]

1. An engraved or inscribed stamp, used for marking an impression in
wax or other soft substance, to be attached to a document, or
otherwise used by way of authentication or security.

2. Wax, wafer, or other tenacious substance, set to an instrument,
and impressed or stamped with a seal; as, to give a deed under hand
and seal.
Till thou canst rail the seal from off my bond Thou but offend;st thy
lungs to speak so loud. Shak.

3. That which seals or fastens; esp., the wax or wafer placed on a
letter or other closed paper, etc., to fasten it.

4. That which confirms, ratifies, or makes stable; that which
authenticates; that which secures; assurance. "under the seal of
silence." Milton.
Like a red seal is the setting sun On the good and the evil men have
done. Lonfellow.

5. An arrangement for preventing the entrance or return of gas or air
into a pipe, by which the open end of the pipe dips beneath the
surface of water or other liquid, or a deep bend or sag in the pipe
is filled with the liquid; a draintrap. Great seal. See under Great.
 -- Privy seal. See under Privy, a.
 -- Seal lock, a lock in which the keyhole is covered by a seal in
such a way that the lock can not be opened without rupturing the
seal. Seal manual. See under Manual, a.
 -- Seal ring, a ring having a seal engraved on it, or ornamented
with a device resembling a seal; a signet ring. Shak.

SEAL
Seal, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sealed; p. pr. & vb. n. Skaling.] Etym:
[OE. selen; cf. OF. seeler, seieler, F. sceller, LL. sigillare. See
Seal a stamp.]

1. To set or affix a seal to; hence, to authenticate; to confirm; to
ratify; to establish; as, to seal a deed.
And with my hand I seal my true heart's love. Shak.

2. To mark with a stamp, as an evidence of standard exactness, legal
size, or merchantable quality; as, to seal weights and measures; to
seal silverware.

3. To fasten with a seal; to attach together with a wafer, wax, or
other substance causing adhesion; as, to seal a letter.

4. Hence, to shut close; to keep close; to make fast; to keep secure
or secret.
Seal up your lips, and give no words but "mum". Shak.

5. To fix, as a piece of iron in a wall, with cement, plaster, or the
like. Gwilt.

6. To close by means of a seal; as, to seal a drainpipe with water.
See 2d Seal, 5.

7. Among the Mormons, to confirm or set apart as a second or
additional wife. [Utah, U.S.]
If a man once married desires a second helpmate . . . she is sealed
to him under the solemn sanction of the church. H. Stansbury.

SEAL
Seal, v. i.

Defn: To affix one's seal, or a seal. [Obs.]
I will seal unto this bond. Shak.

SEA LACES
Sea" la"ces. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of seaweed (Chorda Filum) having blackish cordlike
fronds, often many feet long.

SEA LAMPREY
Sea" lam"prey. (Zool.)

Defn: The common lamprey.

SEA LANGUAGE
Sea" lan"guage.

Defn: The peculiar language or phraseology of seamen; sailor's cant.

SEA LARK
Sea" lark`. (Zool.)
(a) The rock pipit (Anthus obscurus).
(b) Any one of several small sandpipers and plovers, as the ringed
plover, the turnstone, the dunlin, and the sanderling.

SEA LAVENDER
Sea" lav"en*der. (Bot.)

Defn: See Marsh rosemary, under Marsh.

SEA LAWYER
Sea" law"yer. (Zool.)

Defn: The gray snapper. See under Snapper.

SEAL-BROWN
Seal"-brown`, a.

Defn: Of a rich dark brown color, like the fur of the fur seal after
it is dyed.

SEA LEGS
Sea" legs`.

Defn: Legs able to maintain their possessor upright in stormy weather
at sea, that is, ability stand or walk steadily on deck when a vessel
is rolling or pitching in a rough sea. [Sailor's Cant] Totten.

SEA LEMON
Sea" lem"on. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of nudibranchiate mollusks of the
genus Doris and allied genera, having a smooth, thick, convex yellow
body.

SEA LEOPARD
Sea" leop"ard. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of spotted seals, especially
Ogmorhinus leptonyx, and Leptonychotes Weddelli, of the Antarctic
Ocean. The North Pacific sea leopard is the harbor seal.

SEALER
Seal"er, n.

Defn: One who seals; especially, an officer whose duty it is to seal
writs or instruments, to stamp weights and measures, or the like.

SEALER
Sealer, n.

Defn: A mariner or a vessel engaged in the business of capturing
seals.

SEA LETTER
Sea" let"ter. (Mar. Law.)

Defn: The customary certificate of national character which neutral
merchant vessels are bound to carry in time of war; a passport for a
vessel and cargo.

SEA LETTUCE
Sea" let"tuce. (Bot.)

Defn: The green papery fronds of several seaweeds of the genus Ulva,
sometimes used as food.

SEA LEVEL
Sea" lev"el.

Defn: The level of the surface of the sea; any surface on the same
level with the sea.

SEALGH; SELCH
Sealgh, Selch, n.. (Zool.)

Defn: A seal. [Scotch]

SEA LILY
Sea" lil"y. (Zool.)

Defn: A crinoid.

SEALING WAX
Seal"ing wax`.

Defn: A compound of the resinous materials, pigments, etc., used as a
material for seals, as for letters, documents, etc.

SEA LION
Sea" li"on. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several large species of seals of the family
Otariid? native of the Pacific Ocean, especially the southern sea
lion (Otaria jubata) of the South American coast; the northern sea
lion (Eumetopias Stelleri) found from California to Japan; and the
black, or California, sea lion (Zalophus Californianus), which is
common on the rocks near San Francisco.

SEA LOACH
Sea" loach". (Zool.)

Defn: The three-bearded rockling. See Rockling.

SEA LOUSE
Sea" louse`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of isopod crustaceans of Cymothoa,
Livoneca, and allied genera, mostly parasites on fishes.

SEALSKIN
Seal"skin`, n.

Defn: The skin of a seal; the pelt of a seal prepared for use, esp.
of the fur seal; also, a garment made of this material.

SEAM
Seam, n. Etym: [See Saim.]

Defn: Grease; tallow; lard. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Shak. Dryden.

SEAM
Seam, n. Etym: [OE. seem, seam, AS. seam; akin to D. zoom, OHG. soum,
G. saum, LG. soom, Icel. saumr, Sw. & Dan. som, and E. sew. sq. root
156. See Sew to fasten with thread.]

1. The fold or line formed by sewing together two pieces of cloth or
leather.

2. Hence, a line of junction; a joint; a suture, as on a ship, a
floor, or other structure; the line of union, or joint, of two
boards, planks, metal plates, etc.
Precepts should be so finely wrought together . . . that no coarse
seam may discover where they join. Addison.

3. (geol. & Mining)

Defn: A thin layer or stratum; a narrow vein between two thicker
strata; as, a seam of coal.

4. A line or depression left by a cut or wound; a scar; a cicatrix.
Seam blast, a blast by putting the powder into seams or cracks of
rocks.
 -- Seam lace, a lace used by carriage makers to cover seams and
edges; -- called also seaming lace.
 -- Seam presser. (Agric.) (a) A heavy roller to press down newly
plowed furrows. (b) A tailor's sadiron for pressing seams. Knight.
 -- Seam set, a set for flattering the seams of metal sheets, leather
work, etc.

SEAM
Seam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Seaming.]

1. To form a seam upon or of; to join by sewing together; to unite.

2. To mark with something resembling a seam; to line; to scar.
Seamed o'Pope.

3. To make the appearance of a seam in, as in knitting a stocking;
hence, to knit with a certain stitch, like that in such knitting.

SEAM
Seam, v. i.

Defn: To become ridgy; to crack open.
Later their lips began to parch and seam. L. Wallace.

SEAM
Seam, n. Etym: [AS. seam, LL. sauma, L. sagma a packsaddle, fr. Gr.
Sumpter.]

Defn: A denomination of weight or measure. Specifically:
(a) The quantity of eight bushels of grain. "A seam of oats." P.
Plowman.
(b) The quantity of 120 pounds of glass. [Eng.]

SEA-MAID
Sea"-maid`, n.

1. The mermaid.

2. A sea nymph.

SEA-MAIL
Sea"-mail`, n. Etym: [Sea + (perhaps) Mall Mally, for Mary; hence,
Prov. E. mally a hare.] (Zool.)

Defn: A gull; the mew.

SEAMAN
Sea"man, n.; pl. Seamen (.

Defn: A merman; the male of the mermaid. [R.] "Not to mention
mermaids or seamen." Locke.

SEAMAN
Sea"man, n.; pl. Seamen. Etym: [AS. s?man.]

Defn: One whose occupation is to assist in the management of ships at
sea; a mariner; a sailor; -- applied both to officers and common
mariners, but especially to the latter. Opposed to landman, or
landsman. Able seaman, a sailor who is practically conversant with
all the duties of common seamanship.
 -- ordinary seaman. See Ordinary.

SEAMANLIKE
Sea"man*like`, a.

Defn: Having or showing the skill of a practical seaman.

SEAMANSHIP
Sea"man*ship, n.

Defn: The skill of a good seaman; the art, or skill in the art, of
working a ship.

SEA MANTIS
Sea" man"tis. (Zool.)

Defn: A squilla.

SEA MARGE
Sea" marge`.

Defn: Land which borders on the sea; the seashore. Shak.
You are near the sea marge of a land teeming with life. J. Burroughs.

SEAMARK
Sea"mark`, n.

Defn: Any elevated object on land which serves as a guide to
mariners; a beacon; a landmark visible from the sea, as a hill, a
tree, a steeple, or the like. Shak.

SEA MAT
Sea" mat`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any bryozoan of the genus Flustra or allied genera which form
frondlike corals.

SEA MAW
Sea" maw`. (Zool.)

Defn: The sea mew.

SEAMED
Seamed, a. (Falconry)

Defn: Out of condition; not in good condition; -- said of a hawk.

SEA-MELL
Sea"-mell`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The sea mew.

SEA MEW
Sea" mew`. (Zool.)

Defn: A gull; the mew.

SEA MILE
Sea" mile`.

Defn: A geographical mile. See Mile.

SEA MILKWORT
Sea" milk"wort`. (Bot.)

Defn: A low, fleshy perennial herb (Glaux maritima) found along
northern seashores.

SEAMING
Seam"ing, n.

1. The act or process of forming a seam or joint.

2. (Fishing)

Defn: The cord or rope at the margin of a seine, to which the meshes
of the net are attached. Seaming machine, a machine for uniting the
edges of sheet-metal plates by bending them and pinching them
together.

SEAMLESS
Seam"less, a.

Defn: Without a seam.
Christ's seamless coat, all of a piece. Jer. Taylor.

SEA MONK
Sea" monk`. (Zool.)

Defn: See Monk seal, under Monk.

SEA MONSTER
Sea" mon"ster. (Zool.)

Defn: Any large sea animal.

SEA MOSS
Sea" moss`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any branched marine bryozoan resembling moss.

SEA MOUSE
Sea" mouse`. (Zool.)
(a) A dorsibranchiate annelid, belonging to Aphrodite and allied
genera, having long, slender, hairlike set? on the sides.
(b) The dunlin.

SEAMSTER
Seam"ster, n. Etym: [See Seamstress.]

Defn: One who sews well, or whose occupation is to sew. [Obs.]

SEAMSTRESS
Seam"stress, n. Etym: [From older seamster, properly fem., AS.
seamestre. See Seam.]

Defn: A woman whose occupation is sewing; a needlewoman.

SEAMSTRESSY
Seam"stress*y, n.

Defn: The business of a seamstress.

SEA MUD
Sea" mud`.

Defn: A rich slimy deposit in salt marshes and along the seashore,
sometimes used as a manure; -- called also sea ooze.

SEAMY
Seam"y, a.

Defn: Having a seam; containing seams, or showing them. "Many a seamy
scar." Burns.
Everything has its fair, as well as its seamy, side. Sir W. Scott.

SEAN
Sean, n.

Defn: A seine. See Seine. [Prov. Eng.]

SEANCE
Se`ance", n. Etym: [F., fr. L. sedens, -entis, p.pr. of sedere to
sit. See Sit.]

Defn: A session, as of some public body; especially, a meeting of
spiritualists to receive spirit communication, so called.

SEA NEEDLE
Sea" nee"dle. (Zool.)

Defn: See Garfish (a).

SEA NETTLE
Sea" net`tle.

Defn: A jellyfish, or medusa.

SEANNACHIE
Sean"na*chie, n. Etym: [Gael. seanachaidh.]

Defn: A bard among the Highlanders of Scotland, who preserved and
repeated the traditions of the tribes; also, a genealogist. [Written
also senachy.] [Scot.]

SEA ONION
Sea" on"ion. (Bot.)

Defn: The officinal squill. See Squill.

SEA OOZE
Sea" ooze`.

Defn: Same as Sea mud. Mortimer.

SEA ORANGE
Sea" or"ange. (Zool.)

Defn: A large American holothurian (Lophothuria Fabricii) having a
bright orange convex body covered with finely granulated scales. Its
expanded tentacles are bright red.

SEA-ORB
Sea"-orb`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A globefish.

SEA OTTER
Sea" ot"ter. (Zool.)

Defn: An aquatic carnivore (Enhydris lutris, or marina) found in the
North Pacific Ocean. Its fur is highly valued, especially by the
Chinese. It is allied to the common otter, but is larger, with feet
more decidedly webbed. Sea-otter's cabbage (Bot.), a gigantic kelp of
the Pacific Ocean (Nereocystis Lutkeana). See Nereocystis.

SEA OWL
Sea" owl`. (Zool.)

Defn: The lumpfish.

SEA PAD
Sea" pad`. (Zool.)

Defn: The puffin.

SEA PARROT
Sea" par"rot (se" par"rut). (Zool.)

Defn: The puffin.

SEA PARTRIDGE
Sea" par"tridge. (Zool.)

Defn: The gilthead (Crenilabrus melops), a fish of the British
coasts.

SEA PASS
Sea" pass`.

Defn: A document carried by neutral merchant vessels in time of war,
to show their nationality; a sea letter or passport. See Passport.

SEA PEACH
Sea" peach`. (Zool.)

Defn: A beautiful American ascidian (Cynthia, or Halocynthia,
pyriformis) having the size, form, velvety surface, and color of a
ripe peach.

SEA PEAR
Sea" pear`. (Zool.)

Defn: A pedunculated ascidian of the genus Boltonia.

SEA-PEN
Sea"-pen", n. (Zool.)

Defn: A pennatula.

SEA PERCH
Sea" perch`. (Zool.)
(a) The European bass (Roccus, or Labrax, lupus); -- called also sea
dace.
(b) The cunner.
(c) The sea bass.
(d) The name is applied also to other species of fishes.

SEA PHEASANT
Sea" pheas"ant. (Zool.)

Defn: The pintail duck.

SEA PIE
Sea" pie. (Zool.)

Defn: The oyster catcher, a limicoline bird of the genus H?matopus.

SEA PIE
Sea" pie`.

Defn: A dish of crust or pastry and meat or fish, etc., cooked
together in alternate layers, -- a common food of sailors; as, a
three-decker sea pie.

SEAPIECE
Sea"piece`, n.

Defn: A picture representing a scene at sea; a marine picture.
Addison.

SEA PIET
Sea" pi"et. (Zool.)

Defn: See 1st Sea pie.

SEA PIG
Sea" pig`. (Zool.)
(a) A porpoise or dolphin.
(b) A dugong.

SEA PIGEON
Sea" pi"geon.

Defn: The common guillemot.

SEA PIKE
Sea" pike`. (Zool.)
(a) The garfish.
(b) A large serranoid food fish (Centropomus undecimalis) found on
both coasts of America; -- called also robalo.
(c) The merluce.

SEA PINCUSHION
Sea" pin`cush`ion. (Zool.)
(a) A sea purse.
(b) A pentagonal starfish.

SEA PINK
Sea" pink`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Thrift.

SEA PLOVER
Sea" plov"er.

Defn: the black-bellied plover.

SEA POACHER; SEA POKER
Sea" poach"er. Sea" pok"er. (Zool.)

Defn: The lyrie.

SEA POOL
Sea" pool`.

Defn: A pool of salt water. Spenser.

SEA POPPY
Sea" pop"py. (Bot.)

Defn: The horn poppy. See under Horn.

SEA PORCUPINE
Sea" por"cu*pine. (Zool.)

Defn: Any fish of the genus Diodon, and allied genera, whose body is
covered with spines. See Illust. under Diodon.

SEA PORK
Sea" pork`. (Zool.)

Defn: An American compound ascidian (Amor?cium stellatum) which forms
large whitish masses resembling salt pork.

SEA PORT
Sea" port`, n.

Defn: A port on the seashore, or one accessible for seagoing vessels.
Also used adjectively; as, a seaport town.

SEAPOY
Sea"poy, n.

Defn: See Sepoy.

SEA PUDDING
Sea" pud"ding. (Zool.)

Defn: Any large holothurian. [Prov. Eng.]

SEA PURSE
Sea" purse`. (Zool.)

Defn: The horny egg case of a skate, and of certain sharks.

SEA PURSLANE
Sea" purs"lane. (Bot.)

Defn: See under Purslane.

SEA PYE
Sea" pye`. (Zool.)

Defn: See 1st Sea pie.

SEA PYOT
Sea" py"ot. (Zool.)

Defn: See 1st Sea pie.

SEA QUAIL
Sea" quail`. (Zool.)

Defn: The turnstone.

SEAQUAKE
Sea"quake`, n.

Defn: A quaking of the sea.

SEAR; SERE
Sear, Sere, a.

Defn: [OE. seer, AS. sear (assumed) fr. searian to wither; akin to D.
zoor dry, LG. soor, OHG. soren to to wither, Gr. sush) to dry, to
wither, Zend hush to dry. sq. root152. Cf. Austere, Sorrel, a.] Dry;
withered; no longer green; -- applied to leaves. Milton.
I have lived long enough; my way of life Is fall'n into the sear, the
yellow leaf. Shak.

SEAR
Sear, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seared; p. pr. & vb. n. Searing.] Etym:
[OE.seeren, AS. searian. See Sear, a.]

1. To wither; to dry up. Shak.

2. To burn (the surface of) to dryness and hardness; to cauterize; to
expose to a degree of heat such as changes the color or the hardness
and texture of the surface; to scorch; to make callous; as, to sear
the skin or flesh. Also used figuratively.
I'm seared with burning steel. Rowe.
It was in vain that the amiable divine tried to give salutary pain to
that seared conscience. Macaulay.
The discipline of war, being a discipline in destruction of life, is
a discipline in callousness. Whatever sympathies exist are seared. H.
Spencer.

Note: Sear is allied to scorch in signification; but it is applied
primarily to animal flesh, and has special reference to the effect of
heat in marking the surface hard. Scorch is applied to flesh, cloth,
or any other substance, and has no reference to the effect of
hardness. To sear, to close by searing. "Cherish veins of good humor,
and sear up those of ill." Sir W. Temple.

SEAR
Sear, n. Etym: [F. serre a grasp, pressing, fr. L. sera. See Serry.]

Defn: The catch in a gunlock by which the hammer is held cocked or
half cocked. Sear spring, the spring which causes the sear to catch
in the notches by which the hammer is held.

SEA RAT
Sea" rat`.

1. A pirate. [R.] Massinger.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The chim?ra.

SEA RAVEN
Sea" ra"ven. (Zool.)
(a) An American cottoid fish (Hemitripterus Americanus) allied to the
sculpins, found on the northeren Atlantic coasts.
(b) The cormorant.

SEARCE
Searce, n. Etym: [See Sarse.]

Defn: A fine sieve. [Obs.]

SEARCE
Searce, v. t.

Defn: To sift; to bolt. [Obs.] Mortimer.

SEARCER
Sear"cer, n.

1. One who sifts or bolts. [Obs.]

2. A searce, or sieve. [Obs.] Holland.

SEARCH
Search, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Searched; p. pr. & vb. n. Searching.]
Etym: [OE. serchen, cerchen, OF. cerchier, F. chercher, L. circare to
go about, fr. L. circum, circa, around. See Circle.]

1. To look over or through, for the purpose of finding something; to
examine; to explore; as, to search the city. "Search the Scriptures."
John v. 39.
They are come to search the house. Shak.
Search me, O God, and know my heart. Ps. cxxxix. 23.

2. To inquire after; to look for; to seek.
I will both search my sheep, and seek them out. Ezek. xxxiv. 11.
Enough is left besides to search and know. Milton.

3. To examine or explore by feeling with an instrument; to probe; as,
to search a wound.

4. To examine; to try; to put to the test. To search out, to seek
till found; to find by seeking; as, to search out truth.

Syn.
 -- To explore; examine; scrutinize; seek; investigate; pry into;
inquire.

SEARCH
Search, v. i.

Defn: To seek; to look for something; to make inquiry, exploration,
or examination; to hunt.
Once more search with me. Shak.
It sufficeth that they have once with care sifted the matter, and
searched into all the particulars. Locke.

SEARCH
Search, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. cerche. See Search, v. t.]

Defn: The act of seeking or looking for something; quest; inquiry;
pursuit for finding something; examination.
Thus the orb he roamed With narrow search, and with inspection deep
Considered every creature. Milton.
Nor did my search of liberty begin Till my black hairs were changed
upon my chin. Dryden.
Right of search (Mar. Law), the right of the lawfully commissioned
cruisers of belligerent nations to examine and search private
merchant vessels on the high seas, for the enemy's property or for
articles contraband of war.
 -- Search warrant (Law), a warrant legally issued, authorizing an
examination or search of a house, or other place, for goods stolen,
secreted, or concealed.

Syn.
 -- Scrutiny; examination; exploration; investigation; research;
inquiry; quest; pursuit.

SEARCHABLE
Search"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being searched.

SEARCHABLENESS
Search"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being searchable.

SEARCHER
Search"er, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. cercheor inspector.]

Defn: One who, or that which, searhes or examines; a seeker; an
inquirer; an examiner; a trier. Specifically:
(a) Formerly, an officer in London appointed to examine the bodies of
the dead, and report the cause of death. Graunt.
(b) An officer of the customs whose business it is to search ships,
merchandise, luggage, etc.
(c) An inspector of leather. [Prov. Eng.]
(d) (Gun.) An instrument for examining the bore of a cannon, to
detect cavities.
(e) An implement for sampling butter; a butter trier.
(j) (Med.) An instrument for feeling after calculi in the bladder,
etc.

SEARCHING
Search"ing, a.

Defn: Exploring thoroughly; scrutinizing; penetrating; trying; as, a
searching discourse; a searching eye. "Piercing, searching, biting,
cold." Dickens.
 -- Search"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Search"ing*ness, n.

SEARCHLESS
Search"less, a.

Defn: Impossible to be searched; inscrutable; impenetrable.

SEARCHLIGHT
Search"light`, n.
 (a) An apparatus for projecting a powerful beam of light of
approximately parallel rays, usually devised so that it can be
swiveled about.
 (b) The beam of light projecting by this apparatus.

SEARCLOTH
Sear"cloth`, n.

Defn: Cerecloth. Mortimer.

SEARCLOTH
Sear"cloth, v. t.

Defn: To cover, as a sore, with cerecloth.

SEARED
Seared, a.

Defn: Scorched; cauterized; hence, figuratively, insensible; not
susceptible to moral influences.
A seared conscience and a remorseless heart. Macaulay.

SEAREDNESS
Sear"ed*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being seared or callous; insensibility. Bp. Hall.

SEA REED
Sea" reed`. (Bot.)

Defn: The sea-sand reed. See under Reed.

SEA RISK
Sea" risk.

Defn: Risk of injury, destruction, or loss by the sea, or while at
sea.

SEA ROBBER
Sea" rob"ber.

Defn: A pirate; a sea rover.

SEA ROBIN
Sea" rob"in.

Defn: See under Robin, and Illustration in Appendix.

SEA ROCKET
Sea" rock"et.(Bot.)

Defn: See under Rocket.

SEA ROOM
Sea" room`. (Naut.)

Defn: Room or space at sea for a vessel to maneuver, drive, or scud,
without peril of running ashore or aground. Totten.

SEA ROVER
Sea" rov"er.

Defn: One that cruises or roves the sea for plunder; a sea robber; a
pirate; also, a piratical vessel.

SEA-ROVING
Sea"-rov"ing

Defn: , a. Cruising at random on the ocean.

SEA SALMON
Sea" salm"on. (Zool.)
(a) A young pollock.
(b) The spotted squeteague.
(c) See Sea bass (b).

SEA SALT
Sea" salt`.

Defn: Common salt, obtained from sea water by evaporation.

SEA SANDPIPER
Sea" sand"pi`per. (Zool.)

Defn: The purple sandpiper.

SEA SANDWORT
Sea" sand"wort`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sea chickweed.

SEA SAURIAN
Sea" sau"ri*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any marine saurian; esp. (Paleon.) the large extinct species of
Mosasaurus, Icthyosaurus, Plesiosaurus, and related genera.

SEASCAPE
Sea"scape, n. Etym: [Cf. Landscape.]

Defn: A picture representing a scene at sea. [Jocose] Thackeray.

SEA SCORPION
Sea" scor"pi*on. (Zool.)
(a) A European sculpin (Cottus scorpius) having the head armed with
short spines.
(b) The scorpene.

SEA SCURF
Sea" scurf`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any bryozoan which forms rounded or irregular patches of coral
on stones, seaweeds, etc.

SEA SERPENT
Sea" ser`pent.

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any marine snake. See Sea snake.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A large marine animal of unknown nature, often reported to have
been seen at sea, but never yet captured.

Note: Many accounts of sea serpents are imaginary or fictitious;
others are greatly exaggerated and distorted by incompetent
observers; but a number have been given by competent and trustworthy
persons, which indicate that several diverse animals have been called
sea serpents. Among these are, apparently, several large snakelike
fishes, as the oar fish, or ribbon fish (Regalecus), and huge conger
eels. Other accounts probably refer to the giant squids
(Architeuthis). Some of the best accounts seem to describe a marine
saurian, like the fossil Mosasauri, which were large serpentlike
creatures with paddles.

SEASHELL
Sea"shell`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The shell of any marine mollusk.

SEASHORE
Sea"shore`, n.

1. The coast of the sea; the land that lies adjacent to the sea or
ocean.

2. (Law)

Defn: All the ground between the ordinary highwater and low-water
marks.

SEASICK
Sea"sick`, a.

Defn: Affected with seasickness.

SEASICKNESS
Sea"sick`ness, n.

Defn: The peculiar sickness, characterized by nausea and prostration,
which is caused by the pitching or rolling of a vessel.

SEASIDE
Sea"side`, n.

Defn: The land bordering on, or adjacent to, the sea; the seashore.
Also used adjectively.

SEA SLATER
Sea" slat"er. (Zool.)

Defn: Any isopod crustacean of the genus Ligia.

SEA SLUG
Sea" slug`. (Zool.)
(a) A holothurian.
(b) A nudibranch mollusk.

SEA SNAIL
Sea" snail`. (Zool.)
(a) A small fish of the genus Liparis, having a ventral sucker. It
lives among stones and seaweeds.
(b) Any small creeping marine gastropod, as the species of Littorina,
Natica, etc.

SEA SNAKE
Sea" snake`. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of many species of venomous aquatic snakes of the
family Hydrophid?, having a flattened tail and living entirely in the
sea, especially in the warmer parts of the Indian and Pacific Oceans.
They feed upon fishes, and are mostly of moderate size, but some
species become eight or ten feet long and four inches broad.

SEA SNIPE
Sea" snipe`. (Zool.)
(a) A sandpiper, as the knot and dunlin.
(b) The bellows fish.

SEASON
Sea"son, n. Etym: [OE. sesoun, F. saison, properly, the sowing time,
fr. L. satio a sowing, a planting, fr. serere, satum, to sow, plant;
akin to E. sow, v., to scatter, as seed.]

1. One of the divisions of the year, marked by alternations in the
length of day and night, or by distinct conditions of temperature,
moisture, etc., caused mainly by the relative position of the earth
with respect to the sun. In the north temperate zone, four seasons,
namely, spring, summer, autumn, and winter, are generally recognized.
Some parts of the world have three seasons, -- the dry, the rainy,
and the cold; other parts have but two, -- the dry and the rainy.
The several seasons of the year in their beauty. Addison.

2. Hence, a period of time, especially as regards its fitness for
anything contemplated or done; a suitable or convenient time; proper
conjuncture; as, the season for planting; the season for rest.
The season, prime for sweetest scents and airs. Milton.

3. A period of time not very long; a while; a time.
Thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a season. Acts xiii. 11.

4. That which gives relish; seasoning. [Obs.]
You lack the season of all natures, sleep. Shak.
In season, in good time, or sufficiently early for the purpose.
 -- Out of season, beyond or out of the proper time of the usual or
appointed time.

SEASON
Sea"son, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seasoned; p. pr. & vb. n. Seasoning.]

1. To render suitable or appropriate; to prepare; to fit.
He is fit and seasoned for his passage. Shak.

2. To fit for any use by time or habit; to habituate; to accustom; to
inure; to ripen; to mature; as, to season one to a climate.

3. Hence, to prepare by drying or hardening, or removal of natural
juices; as, to season timber.

4. To fit for taste; to render palatable; to give zest or relish to;
to spice; as, to season food.

5. Hence, to fit for enjoyment; to render agrecable.
You season still with sports your serious hours. Dryden.
The proper use of wit is to season conversation. Tillotson.

6. To qualify by admixture; to moderate; to temper. "When mercy
seasons justice." Shak.

7. To imbue; to tinge or taint. "Who by his tutor being seasoned with
the love of the truth." Fuller.
Season their younger years with prudent and pious principles. Jer.
Taylor.

8. To copulate with; to impregnate. [R.] Holland.

SEASON
Sea"son, v. i.

1. To become mature; to grow fit for use; to become adapted to a
climate.

2. To become dry and hard, by the escape of the natural juices, or by
being penetrated with other substance; as, timber seasons in the sun.

3. To give token; to savor. [Obs.] Beau. & Fl.

SEASONABLE
Sea"son*a*ble, a.

Defn: Occurring in good time, in due season, or in proper time for
the purpose; suitable to the season; opportune; timely; as, a
seasonable supply of rain.
Mercy is seasonable in the time of affliction. Ecclus. xxxv. 20.
-- Sea"son*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Sea"son*a*bly, adv.

SEASONAGE
Sea"son*age, n.

Defn: A seasoning. [Obs.] outh.

SEASONAL
Sea"son*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the seasons. Seasonal dimorphism (Zool.),
the condition of having two distinct varieties which appear at
different seasons, as certain species of butterflies in which the
spring brood differs from the summer or autumnal brood.

SEASONER
Sea"son*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, seasons, or gives a relish; a
seasoning.

SEASONING
Sea"son*ing, n.

1. The act or process by which anything is seasoned.

2. That which is added to any species of food, to give it a higher
relish, as salt, spices, etc.; a condiment.

3. Hence, something added to enhance enjoyment or relieve dullness;
as, wit is the seasoning of conversation.
Political speculations are of so dry and austere a nature, that they
will not go down with the public without frequent seasonings.
Addison.
Seasoning tub (Bakery), a trough in which dough is set to rise.
Knight.

SEASONLESS
Sea"son*less, a.

Defn: Without succession of the seasons.

SEA SPIDER
Sea" spi"der. (Zool.)
(a) Any maioid crab; a spider crab. See Maioid, and Spider crab,
under Spider.
(b) Any pycnogonid.

SEA SQUIRT
Sea" squirt`. (Zool.)

Defn: An ascidian. See Illust. under Tunicata.

SEA STAR
Sea" star`. (Zool.)

Defn: A starfish, or brittle star.

SEA SURGEON
Sea" sur"geon. (Zool.)

Defn: A surgeon fish.

SEA SWALLOW
Sea" swal"low.

1. (Zool.)
(a) The common tern.
(b) The storm petrel.
(c) The gannet.

2. (Her.)

Defn: See Cornish chough, under Chough.

SEAT
Seat, n. Etym: [OE. sete, Icel. s?ti; akin to Sw. sate, Dan. s?de,
MHG. saze, AS. set, setl, and E. sit. sq. root154. See Sit, and cf.
Settle, n.]

1. The place or thing upon which one sits; hence; anything made to be
sat in or upon, as a chair, bench, stool, saddle, or the like.
And Jesus . . . overthrew the tables of the money changers, and the
seats of them that sold doves. Matt. xxi. 12.

2. The place occupied by anything, or where any person or thing is
situated, resides, or abides; a site; an abode, a station; a post; a
situation.
Where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is. Rev. ii. 13.
He that builds a fair house upon an ill seat committeth himself to
prison. Bacon.
A seat of plenty, content, and tranquillity. Macaulay.

3. That part of a thing on which a person sits; as, the seat of a
chair or saddle; the seat of a pair of pantaloons.

4. A sitting; a right to sit; regular or appropriate place of
sitting; as, a seat in a church; a seat for the season in the opera
house.

5. Posture, or way of sitting, on horseback.
She had so good a seat and hand she might be trusted with any mount.
G. Eliot.

6. (Mach.)

Defn: A part or surface on which another part or surface rests; as, a
valve seat. Seat worm (Zool.), the pinworm.

SEAT
Seat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seated; p. pr. & vb. n. Seating.]

1. To place on a seat; to cause to sit down; as, to seat one's self.
The guests were no sooner seated but they entered into a warm debate.
Arbuthnot.

2. To cause to occupy a post, site, situation, or the like; to
station; to establish; to fix; to settle.
Thus high . . . is King Richard seated. Shak.
They had seated themselves in New Guiana. Sir W. Raleigh.

3. To assign a seat to, or the seats of; to give a sitting to; as, to
seat a church, or persons in a church.

4. To fix; to set firm.
From their foundations, loosening to and fro, They plucked the seated
hills. Milton.

5. To settle; to plant with inhabitants; as to seat a country. [Obs.]
W. Stith.

6. To put a seat or bottom in; as, to seat a chair.

SEAT
Seat, v. i.

Defn: To rest; to lie down. [Obs.] Spenser.

SEA TANG
Sea" tang`. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of seaweed; tang; tangle.
To their nests of sedge and sea tang. Longfellow.

SEA TERM
Sea" term`.

Defn: A term used specifically by seamen; a nautical word or phrase.

SEA THIEF
Sea" thief`.

Defn: A pirate. Drayton.

SEA THONGS
Sea" thongs`. (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of blackish seaweed (Himanthalia lorea) found on the
northern coasts of the Atlantic. It has a thonglike forking process
rising from a top-shaped base.

SEATING
Seat"ing, n.

1. The act of providong with a seat or seats; as, the seating of an
audience.

2. The act of making seats; also, the material for making seats; as,
cane seating.

SEA TITLING
Sea" tit"ling. (Zool.)

Defn: The rock pipit.

SEATLESS
Seat"less, a.

Defn: Having no seat.

SEA TOAD
Sea" toad`. (Zool.)
(a) A sculpin.
(b) A toadfish.
(c) The angler.

SEA TROUT
Sea" trout`. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of several species of true trouts which descend rivers
and enter the sea after spawning, as the European bull trout and
salmon trout, and the eastern American spotted trout.
(b) The common squeteague, and the spotted squeteague.
(c) A California fish of the family Chirid?, especially Hexagrammus
decagrammus; -- called also spotted rock trout. See Rock trout, under
Rock.
(d) A California sci?noid fish (Cynoscion nobilis); -- called also
white sea bass.

SEA TRUMPET
Sea" trum"pet.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A great blackish seaweed of the Southern Ocean, having a hollow
and expanding stem and a pinnate frond, sometimes twenty feet long.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any large marine univalve shell of the genus Triton. See
Triton.

SEA TURN
Sea" turn`.

Defn: A breeze, gale, or mist from the sea. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

SEA TURTLE
Sea" tur"tle. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of several very large species of chelonians having the
feet converted into paddles, as the green turtle, hawkbill,
loggerhead, and leatherback. They inhabit all warm seas.
(b) The sea pigeon, or guillemot.

SEA UNICORN
Sea" u"ni*corn. (Zool.)

Defn: The narwhal.

SEA URCHIN
Sea" ur"chin. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of echinoderms of the order
Echinoidea.

Note: When living they are covered with movable spines which are
often long and sharp.

SEAVE
Seave, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. siv, Sw. saf, Icel. sef.]

Defn: A rush. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SEAVY
Seav`y, a.

Defn: Overgrown with rushes. [Prov. Eng.]

SEA WALL
Sea" wall`. Etym: [AS. s?weall.]

Defn: A wall, or embankment, to resist encroachments of the sea.

SEA-WALLED
Sea"-walled`, a.

Defn: Surrounded, bounded, or protected by the sea, as if by a wall.
Shak.

SEAWAN; SEAWANT
Sea"wan, Sea"want, n.

Defn: The name used by the Algonquin Indians for the shell beads
which passed among the Indians as money.

Note: Seawan was of two kinds; wampum, white, and suckanhock, black
or purple, -- the former having half the value of the latter. Many
writers, however, use the terms seawan and wampum indiscriminately.
Bartlett.

SEAWAND
Sea"wand` . (Bot.)

Defn: See Sea girdles.

SEAWARD
Sea"ward, a.

Defn: Directed or situated toward the sea. Donne.
Two still clouds . . . sparkled on their seaward edges like a frosted
fleece. G. W. Cable.

SEAWARD
Sea"ward, adv.

Defn: Toward the sea. Drayton.

SEAWARE
Sea"ware`, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. s?war seaweed.] (Bot.)

Defn: Seaweed; esp., coarse seaweed. See Ware, and Sea girdles.

SEAWEED
Sea"weed`, n.

1. Popularly, any plant or plants growing in the sea.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Any marine plant of the class Alg?, as kelp, dulse, Fucus,
Ulva, etc.

SEA WHIP
Sea" whip`. (Zool.)

Defn: A gorgonian having a simple stem.

SEA WIDGEON
Sea" wid"geon. (Zool.)
(a) The scaup duck.
(b) The pintail duck.

SEAWIFE
Sea"wife`, n.; pl. Seawives (. (Zool.)

Defn: A European wrasse (Labrus vetula).

SEA WILLOW
Sea" wil"low. (Zool.)

Defn: A gorgonian coral with long flexible branches.

SEA WING
Sea" wing`. (Zool.)

Defn: A wing shell (Avicula).

SEA WITHWIND
Sea" with"wind`.

Defn: (Bot.) A kind of bindweed (Convolvulus Soldanella) growing on
the seacoast of Europe.

SEA WOLF
Sea" wolf`. (Zool.)
(a) The wolf fish.
(b) The European sea perch.
(c) The sea elephant.
(d) A sea lion.

SEA WOODCOCK
Sea" wood"cock`. (Zool.)

Defn: The bar-tailed godwit.

SEA WOOD LOUSE
Sea" wood louse`. (Zool.)

Defn: A sea slater.

SEA WORMWOOD
Sea" worm"wood`. (Bot.)

Defn: A European species of wormwood (Artemisia maritima) growing by
the sea.

SEAWORTHINESS
Sea"wor`thi*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being seaworthy, or able to resist the
ordinary violence of wind and weather. Kent.

SEAWORTHY
Sea"wor`thy, a.

Defn: Fit for a voyage; worthy of being trusted to transport a cargo
with safety; as, a seaworthy ship.

SEA WRACK
Sea" wrack`. (Bot.)

Defn: See Wrack.

SEBACEOUS
Se*ba"ceous, a. Etym: [NL. sebaceus, from L. sebum tallow, grease.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or secreting, fat; composed of fat; having the
appearance of fat; as, the sebaceous secretions of some plants, or
the sebaceous humor of animals. Sebaceous cyst (Med.), a cyst formed
by distention of a sebaceous gland, due to obstruction of its
excretory duct.
 -- Sebaceous glands (Anat.), small subcutaneous glands, usually
connected with hair follicles. They secrete an oily semifluid matter,
composed in great part of fat, which softens and lubricates the hair
and skin.

SEBACIC
Se*bac"ic, a. Etym: [L. sebum tallow: cf. F. sebacique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to fat; derived from, or resembling, fat;
specifically, designating an acid (formerly called also sebic, and
pyroleic, acid), obtained by the distillation or saponification of
certain oils (as castor oil) as a white crystalline substance.

SEBAT
Se"bat, n. Etym: [Heb. shebat.]

Defn: The eleventh month of the ancient Hebrew year, approximately
corresponding with February. W. Smith (Bibl. Dict. ).

SEBATE
Se"bate (se"b\ddt), n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sebacic acid.

SEBESTEN
Se*bes"ten, n. Etym: [Ar. sebestan the tree: cf. Sp. sebesten.]
(Bot.)

Defn: The mucilaginous drupaceous fruit of two East Indian trees
(Cordia Myxa, and C. latifolia), sometimes used medicinally in
pectoral diseases.

Note: In the West Indies the name is given to the similar fruit of
Cordia Sebestana.

SEBIC
Se"bic, a.

Defn: See Sebacic. [Obs.]

SEBIFEROUS
Se*bif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. sebum tallow + -ferous.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Producing vegetable tallow.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: Producing fat; sebaceous; as, the sebiferous, or sebaceous,
glands.

SEBIPAROUS
Se*bip"a*rous, a. Etym: [L. sebum tallow + parere to bring forth.]
(Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Sebiferous.

SEBORRHEA
Seb"or*rhe*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sebum tallow + Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A morbidly increased discharge of sebaceous matter upon the
skin; stearrhea.

SECALE
Se*ca"le, n. Etym: [L., a kind of grain.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of cereal grasses including rye.

SECANCY
Se"can*cy, n. Etym: [See Secant.]

Defn: A cutting; an intersection; as, the point of secancy of one
line by another. [R.] Davies & Peck (Math. Dict. ).

SECANT
Se"cant, a. Etym: [L. secans, -antis, p.pr. of secare to cut. See
Section.]

Defn: Cutting; divivding into two parts; as, a secant line.

SECANT
Secant, n. Etym: [Cf. F. secante. See Secant, a.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A line that cuts another; especially, a straight line cutting a
curve in two or more points.

2. (Trig.)

Defn: A right line drawn from the center of a circle through one end
of a circular arc, and terminated by a tangent drawn from the other
end; the number expressing the ratio line of this line to the radius
of the circle. See Trigonometrical function, under Function.

SECCO
Sec"co, a. Etym: [It.]

Defn: Dry. Secco painting, or Painting in secco, painting on dry
plaster, as distinguished from fresco painting, which is on wet or
fresh plaster.

SECEDE
Se"cede", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Seceded; p. pr. & vb. n. Seceding.]
Etym: [L. secedere, secessum; pref se- aside + cedere to go, move.
See Cede.]

Defn: To withdraw from fellowship, communion, or association; to
separate one's self by a solemn act; to draw off; to retire;
especially, to withdraw from a political or religious body.

SECEDER
Se*ced"er, n.

1. One who secedes.

2. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: One of a numerous body of Presbyterians in Scotland who seceded
from the communion of the Established Church, about the year 1733,
and formed the Secession Church, so called.

SECERN
Se*cern", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Secerned; p. pr. & vb. n. Secerning.]
Etym: [L. secernere. See Secrete.]

1. To separate; to distinguish.
Averroes secerns a sense of titillation, and a sense of hunger and
thirst. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: To secrete; as, mucus secerned in the nose. Arbuthnot.

SECERNENT
Se*cern"ent, a. Etym: [L. secernens, p.pr.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Secreting; secretory.

SECERNENT
Se*cern"ent, n.

1. That which promotes secretion.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: A vessel in, or by means of, which the process of secretion
takes place; a secreting vessel.

SECERNMENT
Se*cern"ment, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act or process of secreting.

SECESS
Se*cess", n. Etym: [L. secessus. See Secede.]

Defn: Retirement; retreat; secession. [Obs.] R. H. More.

SECESSION
Se*ces"sion, n. Etym: [L. secessio: cf. F. secession. See Secede.]

1. The act of seceding; separation from fellowship or association
with others, as in a religious or political organization; withdrawal.

2. (U.S. Hist.)

Defn: The withdrawal of a State from the national Union. Secession
Church (in Scotland). See Seceder.

SECESSIONISM
Se*ces"sion*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrine or policy of secession; the tenets of secession;
the tenets of secessionists.

SECESSIONIST
Se*ces"sion*ist, n.

1. One who upholds secession.

2. (U.S. Hist.)

Defn: One who holds to the belief that a State has the right to
separate from the Union at its will.

SECHE
Seche, v. t. & i.

Defn: To seek. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SECHIUM
Se"chi*um, n. Etym: [NL.: cf. F. sechion; perhaps formed fr. Gr.
(Bot.)

Defn: The edible fruit of a West Indian plant (Sechium edule) of the
Gourd family. It is soft, pear-shaped, and about four inches long,
and contains a single large seed. The root of the plant resembles a
yam, and is used for food.

SECK
Seck, a. Etym: [F. sec, properly, dry, L. siccua.]

Defn: Barren; unprofitable. See Rent seck, under Rent.

SECKEL
Seck"el, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small reddish brown sweet and juicy pear. It originated on a
farm near Philadelphia, afterwards owned by a Mr. Seckel.

SECLE
Se"cle, n. Etym: [L. saeculum: cf. F. siecle. See Secular.]

Defn: A century. [Obs.] Hammond.

SECLUDE
Se*clude, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Secluded; p. pr. & vb. n. Secluding.]
Etym: [L. secludere, seclusum pref. se- aside + claudere to shut. See
Close, v. t.]

1. To shut up apart from others; to withdraw into, or place in,
solitude; to separate from society or intercourse with others.
Let Eastern tyrants from the light of heaven Seclude their bosom
slaves. Thomson.

2. To shut or keep out; to exclude. [Obs.] Evelyn.
 -- Se*clud"ed*ly, adv.
 -- Se*clud"ed*ness, n.

SECLUSION
Se*clu"sion, n. Etym: [See Seclude.]

Defn: The act of secluding, or the state of being secluded;
separation from society or connection; a withdrawing; privacy; as, to
live in seclusion.
O blest seclusion from a jarring world, which he, thus occupied,
enjoys! Cowper.

Syn.
 -- Solitude; separation; withdrawment; retirement; privacy. See
Solitude.

SECLUSIVE
Se*clu"sive, a.

Defn: Tending to seclude; keeping in seclusion; secluding;
sequestering.

SECOND
Sec"ond, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. secundus second, properly, following,
fr. sequi to follow. See Sue to follow, and cf. Secund.]

1. Immediately following the first; next to the first in order of
place or time; hence, occuring again; another; other.
And he slept and dreamed the second time. Gen. xli. 5.

2. Next to the first in value, power, excellence, dignity, or rank;
secondary; subordinate; inferior.
May the day when we become the second people upon earth . . . be the
day of our utter extirpation. Landor.

3. Being of the same kind as another that has preceded; another, like
a protype; as, a second Cato; a second Troy; a second deluge.
A Daniel, still say I, a second Daniel! Shak.
Second Adventist. See Adventist.
 -- Second cousin, the child of a cousin.
 -- Second-cut file. See under File.
 -- Second distance (Art), that part of a picture between the
foreground and the background; -- called also middle ground, or
middle distance. [R.] -- Second estate (Eng.), the House of Peers.
 -- Second girl, a female house-servant who does the lighter work, as
chamber work or waiting on table.
 -- Second intention. See under Intention.
 -- Second story, Story floor, in America, the second range of rooms
from the street level. This, in England, is called the first floor,
the one beneath being the ground floor.
 -- Second thought or thoughts, consideration of a matter following a
first impulse or impression; reconsideration.
On second thoughts, gentlemen, I don't wish you had known him.
Dickens.

SECOND
Sec"ond, n.

1. One who, or that which, follows, or comes after; one next and
inferior in place, time, rank, importance, excellence, or power.
Man an angel's second, nor his second long. Young.

2. One who follows or attends another for his support and aid; a
backer; an assistant; specifically, one who acts as another's aid in
a duel.
Being sure enough of seconds after the first onset. Sir H. Wotton.

3. Aid; assistance; help. [Obs.]
Give second, and my love Is everlasting thine. J. Fletcher.

4. pl.

Defn: An article of merchandise of a grade inferior to the best;
esp., a coarse or inferior kind of flour.

5. Etym: [F. seconde. See Second, a.]

Defn: The sixtieth part of a minute of time or of a minute of space,
that is, the second regular subdivision of the degree; as, sound
moves about 1,140 English feet in a second; five minutes and ten
seconds north of this place.

6. In the duodecimal system of mensuration, the twelfth part of an
inch or prime; a line. See Inch, and Prime, n., 8.

7. (Mus.)
(a) The interval between any tone and the tone which is represented
on the degree of the staff next above it.
(b) The second part in a concerted piece; -- often popularly applied
to the alto. Second hand, the hand which marks the seconds on the
dial of a watch or a clock.

SECOND
Sec"ond, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seconded; p. pr. & vb. n. Seconding.]
Etym: [Cf. F. seconder, L. secundare, from secundus. See Second, a.]

1. To follow in the next place; to succeed; to alternate. [R.]
In the method of nature, a low valley is immediately seconded with an
ambitious hill. Fuller.
Sin is seconded with sin. South.

2. To follow or attend for the purpose of assisting; to support; to
back; to act as the second of; to assist; to forward; to encourage.
We have supplies to second our attempt. Shak.
In human works though labored on with pain, A thousand movements
scarce one purpose gain; In God's, one single can its end produce,
Yet serves to second too some other use. Pope.

3. Specifically, to support, as a motion or proposal, by adding one's
voice to that of the mover or proposer.

SECONDARILY
Sec"ond*a*ri*ly, adv.

1. In a secondary manner or degree.

2. Secondly; in the second place. [Obs.]
God hath set some in the church, first apostels, secondarily
prophets, thirdly teachers. 1 Cor. xii. 28.

SECONDARINESS
Sec"ond*a*ri*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being secondary.
Full of a girl's sweet sense of secondariness to the object of her
love. Mrs. Oliphant.

SECONDARY
Sec"ond*a*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. secondaire, L. secundaire. See Second,
a.]

1. Suceeding next in order to the first; of second place, origin,
rank, rank, etc.; not primary; subordinate; not of the first order or
rate.
Wheresoever there is normal right on the one hand, no secondary right
can discharge it. L'Estrange.
Two are the radical differences; the secondary differences are as
four. Bacon.

2. Acting by deputation or delegated authority; as, the work of
secondary hands.

3. (Chem.)

Defn: Possessing some quality, or having been subject to some
operation (as substitution), in the second degree; as, a secondary
salt, a secondary amine, etc. Cf. primary.

4. (Min.)

Defn: Subsequent in origin; -- said of minerals produced by
alteertion or deposition subsequent to the formation of the original
rocks mass; also of characters of minerals (as secondary cleavage,
etc.) developed by pressure or other causes.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: Pertaining to the second joint of the wing of a bird.

6. (Med.)

Defn: Dependent or consequent upon another disease; as, Bright's
disease is often secondary to scarlet fever. (b) Occuring in the
second stage of a disease; as, the secondary symptoms of syphilis.
Secondary accent. See the Note under Accent, n., 1.
 -- Secondary age. (Geol.) The Mesozoic age, or age before the
Tertiary. See Mesozoic, and Note under Age, n., 8.
 -- Secondary alcohol (Chem.), any one of a series of alcohols which
contain the radical CH.OH united with two hydrocarbon radicals. On
oxidation the secondary alcohols form ketones.
 -- Secondary amputation (Surg.), an amputation for injury, performed
after the constitutional effects of the injury have subsided.
 -- Secondary axis (Opt.), any line which passes through the optical
center of a lens but not through the centers of curvature, or, in the
case of a mirror, which passes through the center of curvature but
not through the center of the mirror.
 -- Secondary battery. (Elec.) See under Battery, n., 4.
 -- Secondary circle (Geom. & Astron.), a great circle passes through
the poles of another great circle and is therefore perpendicular to
its plane.
 -- Secondary circuit, Secondary coil (Elec.), a circuit or coil in
which a current is produced by the induction of a current in a
neighboring circuit or coil called the primary circuit or coil.
 -- Secondary color, a color formed by mixing any two primary colors
in equal proportions.
 -- Secondary coverts (Zool.), the longer coverts which overlie the
basal part of the secondary quills of a bird. See Illust. under Bird.
 -- Secondary crystal (Min.), a crystal derived from one of the
primary forms.
 -- Secondary current (Elec.), a momentary current induced in a
closed circuit by a current of electricity passing through the same
or a contiguous circuit at the beginning and also at the end of the
passage of the primary current.
 -- Secondary evidence, that which is admitted upon failure to obtain
the primary or best evidence.
 -- Secondary fever (Med.), a fever coming on in a disease after the
subsidence of the fever with which the disease began, as the fever
which attends the outbreak of the eruption in smallpox.
 -- Secondary hemorrhage (Med.), hemorrhage occuring from a wounded
blood vessel at some considerable time after the original bleeding
has ceased.
 -- Secondary planet. (Astron.) See the Note under Planet.
 -- Secondary qualities, those qualities of bodies which are not
inseparable from them as such, but are dependent for their
development and intensity on the organism of the percipient, such as
color, taste, odor, etc.
 -- Secondary quills or remiges (Zool.), the quill feathers arising
from the forearm of a bird and forming a row continuous with the
primaries; -- called also secondaries. See Illust. of Bird.
 -- Secondary rocks or strata (Geol.), those lying between the
Primary, or Paleozoic, and Tertiary (see Primary rocks, under
Primary); -- later restricted to strata of the Mesozoic age, and at
but little used.
 -- Secondary syphilis (Med.), the second stage of syphilis,
including the period from the first development of constitutional
symptoms to the time when the bones and the internal organs become
involved.
 -- Secondary tint, any subdued tint, as gray.
 -- Secondary union (Surg.), the union of wounds after suppuration;
union by the second intention.

Syn.
 -- Second; second-rate; subordinate; inferior.

SECONDARY
Sec"ond*a*ry, n.; pl. Secondaries (.

1. One who occupies a subordinate, inferior, or auxiliary place; a
delegate deputy; one who is second or next to the chief officer; as,
the secondary, or undersheriff of the city of London.
Old Escalus . . . is thy secondary. Shak.

2. (Astron.)
(a) A secondary circle.
(b) A satellite.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A secondary quill.

SECOND-CLASS
Sec"ond-class`, a.

Defn: Of the rank or degree below the best highest; inferior; second-
rate; as, a second-class house; a second-class passage.

SECONDER
Sec"ond*er, n.

Defn: One who seconds or supports what another attempts, affirms,
moves, or proposes; as, the seconder of an enterprise or of a motion.

SECONDHAND
Sec"ond*hand`, a.

1. Not original or primary; received from another.
They have but a secondhand or implicit knowledge. Locke.

2. Not new; already or previously or used by another; as, a
secondhand book, garment. At second hand. See Hand, n., 10.

SECONDLY
Sec"ond*ly, adv.

Defn: In the second place.

SECONDO
Se*con"do (; It.), n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: The second part in a concerted piece.

SECOND-RATE
Sec"ond-rate`, a.

Defn: Of the second size, rank, quality, or value; as, a second-rate
ship; second-rate cloth; a second-rate champion. Dryden.

SECOND-SIGHT
Sec"ond-sight`, n.

Defn: The power of discerning what is not visible to the physical
eye, or of foreseeing future events, esp. such as are of a disastrous
kind; the capacity of a seer; prophetic vision.
he was seized with a fit of second-sight. Addison.
Nor less availed his optic sleight, And Scottish gift of second-
sight. Trumbull.

SECOND-SIGHTED
Sec"ond-sight`ed, a.

Defn: Having the power of second-sight. Addison.

SECRE
Se"cre ( or ), a.

Defn: Secret; secretive; faithful to a secret. [Obs.]
To be holden stable and secre. Chaucer.

SECRE
Se"cre, n.

Defn: A secret. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SECRECY
Se"cre*cy, n.; pl. Secrecies. Etym: [From Secret.]

1. The state or quality of being hidden; as, his movements were
detected in spite of their secrecy.
The Lady Anne, Whom the king hath in secrecy long married. Shak.

2. That which is concealed; a secret. [R.] Shak.

3. Seclusion; privacy; retirement. "The pensive secrecy of desert
cell." Milton.

4. The quality of being secretive; fidelity to a secret; forbearance
of disclosure or discovery.
It is not with public as with private prayer; in this, rather secrecy
is commanded than outward show. Hooker.

SECRELY
Se"cre*ly, adv.

Defn: Secretly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SECRENESS
Se"cre*ness, n.

Defn: Secrecy; privacy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SECRET
Se"cret, a. Etym: [F. secret (cf. Sp.& Pg. secreto, It. secreto,
segreto), fr. L. secretus, p.p. of secrernere to put apart, to
separate. See Certain, and cf. Secrete, Secern.]

1. Hidden; concealed; as, secret treasure; secret plans; a secret
vow. Shak.
The secret things belong unto the Lord our God; but those things
which are revealed belong unto us. Deut. xxix. 29.

2. Withdraw from general intercourse or notice; in retirement or
secrecy; secluded.
There, secret in her sapphire cell, He with the Nais wont to dwell.
Fenton.

3. Faithful to a secret; not inclined to divulge or betray
confidence; secretive. [R.]
Secret Romans, that have spoke the word, And will not palter. Shak.

4. Separate; distinct. [Obs.]
They suppose two other divine hypostases superior thereunto, which
were perfectly secret from matter. Cudworth.

Syn.
 -- Hidden; concealed; secluded; retired; unseen; unknown; private;
obscure; recondite; latent; covert; clandestine; privy. See Hidden.

SECRET
Se"cret, n. Etym: [F. secret (cf. Pr. secret, Sp. & Pg. secreto, It.
secreto, segreto), from L. secretum. See Secret, a.]

1. Something studiously concealed; a thing kept from general
knowledge; what is not revealed, or not to be revealed.
To tell our secrets is often folly; to communicate those of others is
treachery. Rambler.

2. A thing not discovered; what is unknown or unexplained; a mystery.
All secrets of the deep, all nature's works. Milton

3. pl.

Defn: The parts which modesty and propriety require to be concealed;
the genital organs. In secret, in a private place; in privacy or
secrecy; in a state or place not seen; privately.
Bread eaten in secret is pleasant. Prov. ix. 17.

SECRET
Se"cret, v. t.

Defn: To keep secret. [Obs.] Bacon.

SECRETAGE
Se"cret*age, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A process in which mercury, or some of its salts, is employed
to impart the property of felting to certain kinds of furs. Ure.

SECRETARIAL
Sec`re*ta"ri*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a secretary; befitting a secretary. [R.]
Secretarial, diplomatic, or other official training. Carlyle.

SECRETARIAT; SECRETARIATE
Sec`re*ta"ri*at, Sec`re*ta"ri*ate, n. Etym: [F. secretariat.]

Defn: The office of a secretary; the place where a secretary
transacts business, keeps records, etc.

SECRETARY
Sec"re*ta*ry, n.; pl. Secretaries. Etym: [F. secretaire (cf. Pr.
secretari, Sp. & Pg. secretario, It. secretario, segretario) LL.
secretarius, originally, a confidant, one intrusted with secrets,
from L. secretum a secret. See Secret, a. & n.]

1. One who keeps, or is intrusted with, secrets. [R.]

2. A person employed to write orders, letters, dispatches, public or
private papers, records, and the like; an official scribe,
amanuensis, or writer; one who attends to correspondence, and
transacts other business, for an association, a public body, or an
individual.
That which is most of all profitable is acquaintance with the
secretaries, and employed men of ambassadors. Bacon.

3. An officer of state whose business is to superintend and manage
the affairs of a particular department of government, and who is
usually a member of the cabinet or advisory council of the chief
executive; as, the secretary of state, who conducts the
correspondence and attends to the relations of a government with
foreign courts; the secretary of the treasury, who manages the
department of finance; the secretary of war, etc.

4. A piece of furniture, with conveniences for writing and for the
arrangement of papers; an escritoire.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: The secretary bird. Secretary Bird. Etym: [So called in
allusion to the tufts of feathers at the back of its head, which were
fancifully thought to resemble pens stuck behind the ear.] (Zool.) A
large long-legged raptorial bird (Gypogeranus serpentarius), native
of South Africa, but now naturalized in the West Indies and some
other tropical countries. It has a powerful hooked beak, a crest of
long feathers, and a long tail. It feeds upon reptiles of various
kinds, and is much prized on account of its habit of killing and
devouring snakes of all kinds. Called also serpent eater.

Syn.
 -- See the Note under Clerk, n., 4.

SECRETARYSHIP
Sec"re*ta*ry*ship, n.

Defn: The office, or the term of office, of a secretary.

SECRETE
Se*crete", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Secreted; p. pr. & vb. n. Secreting.]
Etym: [L. secretus separated, secret, hidden, p. p. of secernere. See
Secret, and cf. Discrete, Discreet.]

1. To deposit in a place of hiding; to hide; to conceal; as, to
secrete stolen goods; to secrete one's self.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: To separate from the blood and elaborate by the process of
secretion; to elaborate and emit as a secretion. See Secretion.
Why one set of cells should secrete bile, another urea, and so on, we
do not known. Carpenter.

Syn.
 -- To conceal; hide. See Conceal.

SECRETION
Se*cre"tion, n. Etym: [L. secretio: cf. F. secretion.]

1. The act of secreting or concealing; as, the secretion of dutiable
goods.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act of secreting; the process by which material is
separated from the blood through the agency of the cells of the
various glands and elaborated by the cells into new substances so as
to form the various secretions, as the saliva, bile, and other
digestive fluids. The process varies in the different glands, and
hence are formed the various secretions.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: Any substance or fluid secreted, or elaborated and emitted, as
the gastric juice.

SECRETIST
Se"cret*ist, n.

Defn: A dealer in secrets. [Obs.]

SECRETITIOUS
Se`cre*ti"tious, a.

Defn: Parted by animal secretion; as, secretitious humors. Floyer.

SECRETIVE
Se*cret"ive, a.

Defn: Tending to secrete, or to keep secret or private; as, a
secretive disposition.

SECRETIVENESS
Se*cret"ive*ness, n.

1. The quality of being secretive; disposition or tendency to
conceal.

2. (Phren.)

Defn: The faculty or propensity which impels to reserve, secrecy, or
concealment.

SECRETLY
Se"cret*ly, adv.

Defn: In a secret manner.

SECRETNESS
Se"cret*ness, n.

1. The state or quality of being secret, hid, or concealed.

2. Secretiveness; concealment. Donne.

SECRETO-MOTORY
Se*cre`to-*mo"to*ry, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Causing secretion; -- said of nerves which go to glands and
influence secretion.

SECRETORY
Se*cre"to*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. secretoire. See Secrete.] (Physiol.)

Defn: Secreting; performing, or connected with, the office secretion;
secernent; as, secretory vessels, nerves.
 -- n.

Defn: A secretory vessel; a secernent.

SECRET SERVICE
Se"cret serv"ice.

Defn: The detective service of a government. In the United States, in
time of peace the bureau of secret service is under the treasury
department, and in time of war it aids the war department in securing
information concerning the movements of the enemy.

SECT
Sect, n. Etym: [L. secare, sectum, to cut.]

Defn: A cutting; a scion. [Obs.] Shak.

SECT
Sect, n. Etym: [F. secte, L. sects, fr. sequi to follew; often
confused with L. secare, sectum, to cut. See Sue to follow, and cf.
Sept, Suit, n.]

Defn: Those following a particular leader or authority, or attached
to a certain opinion; a company or set having a common belief or
allegiance distinct from others; in religion, the believers in a
particular creed, or upholders of a particular practice; especially,
in modern times, a party dissenting from an established church; a
denomination; in philosophy, the disciples of a particular master; a
school; in society and the state, an order, rank, class, or party.
He beareth the sign of poverty, And in that sect our Savior saved all
mankind. Piers Plowman.
As of the sect of which that he was born, He kept his lay, to which
that he was sworn. Chaucer.
The cursed sect of that detestable and false prophet Mohammed.
Fabyan.
As concerning this sect [Christians], we know that everywhere it is
spoken against. Acts xxviii. 22.

SECTANT
Sec"tant, n. Etym: [L. secare, sectum, to cut.]

Defn: One of the portions of space bounded by the three coordinate
planes. Specif. (Crystallog.), one of the parts of a crystal into
which it is divided by the axial planes.

SECTARIAN
Sec*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: Pertaining to a sect, or to sects; peculiar to a sect;
bigotedly attached to the tenets and interests of a denomination; as,
sectarian principles or prejudices.

SECTARIAN
Sec*ta"ri*an, n.

Defn: One of a sect; a member or adherent of a special school,
denomination, or religious or philosophical party; one of a party in
religion which has separated itself from established church, or which
holds tenets different from those of the prevailing denomination in a
state.

Syn.
 -- See Heretic.

SECTARIANISM
Sec*ta"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or character of a sectarian; devotion to the
interests of a party; excess of partisan or denominational zeal;
adherence to a separate church organization.

SECTARIANIZE
Sec*ta"ri*an*ize, v. t.

Defn: To imbue with sectarian feelings; to subject to the control of
a sect.

SECTARISM
Sec"ta*rism, n.

Defn: Sectarianism. [Obs.]

SECTARIST
Sec"ta*rist, n.

Defn: A sectary. [R.] T. Warton.

SECTARY
Sec"ta*ry, n.;pl. Sectaries. Etym: [F. sectaire. See Sect.]

Defn: A sectarian; a member or adherent of a sect; a follower or
disciple of some particular teacher in philosophy or religion; one
who separates from an established church; a dissenter.
I never knew that time in England when men of truest religion were
not counted sectaries. Milton.

SECTATOR
Sec*ta"tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. sectari, v. intens. fr. sequi to
follow. See Sue to follow.]

Defn: A follower; a disciple; an adherent to a sect. [Obs.] Sir W.
Raleigh.

SECTILE
Sec"tile, a. Etym: [L. sectilis, fr. secare, sectum, to cut: cf. F.
sectile. See Section.]

Defn: Capable of being cut; specifically (Min.), capable of being
severed by the knife with a smooth cut; -- said of minerals.

SECTILITY
Sec*til"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being sectile.

SECTION
Sec"tion, n. Etym: [L. sectio, fr. secare, sectum, to cut; akin to E.
saw a cutting instrument: cf. F. section. See Saw, and cf. Scion,
Dissect, Insect, Secant, Segment.]

1. The act of cutting, or separation by cutting; as, the section of
bodies.

2. A part separated from something; a division; a portion; a slice.
Specifically: --
(a) A distinct part or portion of a book or writing; a subdivision of
a chapter; the division of a law or other writing; a paragraph; an
article; hence, the character , often used to denote such a
division.
It is hardly possible to give a distinct view of his several
arguments in distinct sections. Locke.

(b) A distinct part of a country or people, community, class, or the
like; a part of a territory separated by geographical lines, or of a
people considered as distinct.
The extreme section of one class consists of bigoted dotards, the
extreme section of the other consists of shallow and reckless
empirics. Macaulay.

(c) One of the portions, of one square mile each, into which the
public lands of the United States are divided; one thirty-sixth part
of a township. These sections are subdivided into quarter sections
for sale under the homestead and preemption laws.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: The figure made up of all the points common to a superficies
and a solid which meet, or to two superficies which meet, or to two
lines which meet. In the first case the section is a superficies, in
the second a line, and in the third a point.

4. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: A division of a genus; a group of species separated by some
distinction from others of the same genus; -- often indicated by the
sign .

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A part of a musical period, composed of one or more phrases.
See Phrase.

6. The description or representation of anything as it would appear
if cut through by any intersecting plane; depiction of what is beyond
a plane passing through, or supposed to pass through, an object, as a
building, a machine, a succession of strata; profile.

Note: In mechanical drawing, as in these Illustrations of a cannon, a
longitudinal section (a) usually represents the object as cut through
its center lengthwise and vertically; a cross or transverse section
(b), as cut crosswise and vertically; and a horizontal section (c),
as cut through its center horizontally. Oblique sections are made at
various angles. In architecture, a vertical section is a drawing
showing the interior, the thickness of the walls, ets., as if made on
a vertical plane passed through a building. Angular sections (Math.),
a branch of analysis which treats of the relations of sines,
tangents, etc., of arcs to the sines, tangents, etc., of their
multiples or of their parts. [R.] -- Conic sections. (Geom.) See
under Conic.
 -- Section liner (Drawing), an instrument to aid in drawing a series
of equidistant parallel lines, -- used in representing sections.
 -- Thin sections, a section or slice, as of mineral, animal, or
vegetable substance, thin enough to be transparent, and used for
study under the microscope.

Syn.
 -- Part; portion; division.
 -- Section, Part. The English more commonly apply the word section
to a part or portion of a body of men; as, a section of the clergy, a
small section of the Whigs, etc. In the United States this use is
less common, but another use, unknown or but little known in England,
is very frequent, as in the phrases "the eastern section of our
country," etc., the same sense being also given to the adjective
sectional as, sectional feelings, interests, etc.

SECTIONAL
Sec"tion*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a sections or distinct part of larger body or
territory; local.
All sectional interests, or party feelings, it is hoped, will
hereafter yield to schemes of ambition. Story.

2. Consisting of sections, or capable of being divided into sections;
as, a sectional steam boiler.

SECTIONALISM
Sec"tion*al*ism, n.

Defn: A disproportionate regard for the interests peculiar to a
section of the country; local patriotism, as distinguished from
national. [U. S.]

SECTIONALITY
Sec"tion*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being sectional; sectionalism.

SECTIONALIZE
Sec"tion*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To divide according to gepgraphical sections or local
interests. [U. S.]
The principal results of the struggle were to sectionalize parties.
Nicilay & Hay (Life of Lincoln).

SECTIONALLY
Sec"tion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sectional manner.

SECTIONIZE
Sec"tion*ize, v. t.

Defn: To form into sections. [R.]

SECTISM
Sect"ism, n.

Defn: Devotion to a sect. [R.]

SECTIST
Sect"ist, n.

Defn: One devoted to a sect; a soetary. [R.]

SECTIUNCLE
Sect"i*un`cle, n.

Defn: A little or petty sect. [R.] "Some new sect or sectiuncle." J.
Martineau.

SECTOR
Sec"tor, n. Etym: [L., properly, a cutter, fr. secare, sectum, to
cut: cf. F. secteur. See Section.]

1. (Geom.)

Defn: A part of a circle comprehended between two radii and the
included arc.

2. A mathematical instrument, consisting of two rulers connected at
one end by a joint, each arm marked with several scales, as of equal
parts, chords, sines, tangents, etc., one scale of each kind on each
arm, and all on lines radiating from the common center of motion. The
sector is used for plotting, etc., to any scale.

3. An astronomical instrument, the limb of which embraces a small
portion only of a circle, used for measuring differences of
declination too great for the compass of a micrometer. When it is
used for measuring zenith distances of stars, it is called a zenith
sector. Dip sector, an instrument used for measuring the dip of the
horizon.
 -- Sector of a sphere, or Spherical sector, the solid generated by
the revolution of the sector of a circle about one of its radii, or,
more rarely, about any straight line drawn in the plane of the sector
through its vertex.

SECTORAL
Sec"tor*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sector; as, a sectoral circle.

SECTORIAL
Sec*to"ri*al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Adapted for cutting.
 -- n.

Defn: A sectorial, or carnassial, tooth.

SECULAR
Sec"u*lar, a. Etym: [OE. secular, seculer. L. saecularis, fr.
saeculum a race, generation, age, the times, the world; perhaps akin
to E. soul: cf. F. seculier.]

1. Coming or observed once in an age or a century.
The secular year was kept but once a century. Addison.

2. Pertaining to an age, or the progress of ages, or to a long period
of time; accomplished in a long progress of time; as, secular
inequality; the secular refrigeration of the globe.

3. Of or pertaining to this present world, or to things not spiritual
or holy; relating to temporal as distinguished from eternal
interests; not immediately or primarily respecting the soul, but the
body; worldly.
New foes arise, Threatening to bind our souls with secular chains.
Milton.

4. (Eccl.)

Defn: Not regular; not bound by monastic vows or rules; not confined
to a monastery, or subject to the rules of a religious community; as,
a secular priest.
He tried to enforce a stricter discipline and greater regard for
morals, both in the religious orders and the secular clergy.
Prescett.

5. Belonging to the laity; lay; not clerical.
I speak of folk in secular estate. Chaucer.
Secular equation (Astron.), the algebraic or numerical expression of
the magnitude of the inequalities in a planet's motion that remain
after the inequalities of a short period have been allowed for.
 -- Secular games (Rom. Antiq.), games celebrated, at long but
irregular intervals, for three days and nights, with sacrifices,
theatrical shows, combats, sports, and the like.
 -- Secular music, any music or songs not adapted to sacred uses.
 -- Secular hymn or poem, a hymn or poem composed for the secular
games, or sung or rehearsed at those games.

SECULAR
Sec"u*lar, n.

1. (Eccl.)

Defn: A secular ecclesiastic, or one not bound by monastic rules.
Burke.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: A church official whose functions are confined to the vocal
department of the choir. Busby.

3. A layman, as distinguished from a clergyman.

SECULARISM
Sec"u*lar*ism, n.

1. The state or quality of being secular; a secular spirit;
secularity.

2. The tenets or principles of the secularists.

SECULARIST
Sec"u*lar*ist, n.

Defn: One who theoretically rejects every form of religious faith,
and every kind of religious worship, and accepts only the facts and
influences which are derived from the present life; also, one who
believes that education and other matters of civil policy should be
managed without the introduction of a religious element.

SECULARITY
Sec`u*lar"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf.F. secularite, LL. saecularitas.]

Defn: Supreme attention to the things of the present life;
worldliness.
A secularity of character which makes Christianity and its principal
doctrines distasteful or unintelligible. I. Taylor.

SECULARIZATION
Sec`u*lar*i*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. secularisation.]

Defn: The act of rendering secular, or the state of being rendered
secular; conversion from regular or monastic to secular; conversion
from religious to lay or secular possession and uses; as, the
secularization of church property.

SECULARIZE
Sec"u*lar*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Secularized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Secularizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. seculaiser.]

1. To convert from regular or monastic into secular; as, to
secularize a priest or a monk.

2. To convert from spiritual or common use; as, to secularize a
church, or church property.
At the Reformation the abbey was secularized. W. Coxe.

3. To make worldly or unspiritual. Bp. Horsley.

SECULARLY
Sec"u*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a secular or worldly manner.

SECULARNESS
Sec"u*lar*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being secular; worldliness; worldly-
minded-ness.

SECUND
Se"cund, a. Etym: [L. secundus following the course or current of
wind of water. See Second, a.] (Bot.)

Defn: Arranged on one side only, as flowers or leaves on a stalk.
Gray.

SECUNDATE
Se*cun"date, v. t. Etym: [L.secundatus, p. p. of secundare to direct
faverably.]

Defn: To make prosperous. [R.]

SECUNDATION
Sec`un*da"tion, n.

Defn: Prosperity. [R.]

SECUNDINE
Sec"un*dine, n. Etym: [Cf. F. secondine.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The second coat, or integument, of an ovule, lying within the
primine.

Note: In the ripened seed the primine and secundine are usually
united to form the testa, or outer seed coat. When they remain
distinct the secundine becomes the mesosperm, as in the castor bean.

2. Etym: [Cf. F. secondines.]

Defn: The afterbirth, or placenta and membranes; -- generally used in
the plural.

SECUNDO-GENITURE
Se*cun`do-gen"i*ture, n. Etym: [L. secundus second + genitura a
begetting, generation.]

Defn: A right of inheritance belonging to a second son; a property or
possession so inherited.
The kingdom of Naples . . . was constituted a secundo-geniture of
Spain. Bancroft.

SECURABLE
Se*cur"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be secured.

SECURE
Se*cure", a. Etym: [L. securus; pref. se- without + cura care. See
Cure care, and cf. Sure, a.]

1. Free from fear, care, or anxiety; easy in mind; not feeling
suspicion or distrust; confident.
But thou, secure of soul, unbent with woes. DRyden.

2. Overconfident; incautious; careless; -- in a bad sense. Macaulay.

3. Confident in opinion; not entertaining, or not having reason to
entertain, doubt; certain; sure; -- commonly with of; as, secure of a
welcome.
Confidence then bore thee on, secure Either to meet no danger, or to
find Matter of glorious trial. Milton.

4. Net exposed to danger; safe; -- applied to persons and things, and
followed by against or from. "Secure from fortune's blows." Dryden.

Syn.
 -- Safe; undisturbed; easy; sure; certain; assured; confident;
careless; heedless; inattentive.

SECURE
Se*cure", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Secured; p. pr. & vb. n. Securing.]

1. To make safe; to relieve from apprehensions of, or exposure to,
danger; to guard; to protect.
I spread a cloud before the victor's sight, Sustained the vanquished,
and secured his flight. Dryden.

2. To put beyond hazard of losing or of not receiving; to make
certain; to assure; to insure; -- frequently with against or from,
rarely with of; as, to secure a creditor against loss; to secure a
debt by a mortgage.
It secures its possessor of eternal happiness. T. Dick.

3. To make fast; to close or confine effectually; to render incapable
of getting loose or escaping; as, to secure a prisoner; to secure a
door, or the hatches of a ship.

4. To get possession of; to make one's self secure of; to acquire
certainly; as, to secure an estate. Secure arms (Mil.), a command and
a position in the manual of arms, used in wet weather, the object
being to guard the firearm from becoming wet. The piece is turned
with the barrel to the front and grasped by the right hand at the
lewer band, the muzzle is dropped to the front, and the piece held
with the guard under the right arm, the hand supported against the
hip, and the thumb on the rammer.

SECURELY
Se*cure"ly, adv.

Defn: In a secure manner; without fear or apprehension; without
danger; safely.
His daring foe . . . securely him defied. Milton.

SECUREMENT
Se*cure"ment, n.

Defn: The act of securing; protection. [R.]
Society condemns the securement in all cases of perpetual protection
by means of perpetual imprisonment. C. A. Ives.

SECURENESS
Se*cure"ness, n.

Defn: The condition or quality of being secure; exemption from fear;
want of vigilance; security.

SECURER
Se*cur"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, secures.

SECURIFERA
Sec`u*rif"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. securis an ax + ferre to
bear.] (Zool.)

Defn: The Serrifera.

SECURIFORM
Se*cu"ri*form, a. Etym: [L. securis an ax or hatchet + -form: cf. F.
securiforme.] (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Having the form of an ax hatchet.

SECURIPALP
Se*cu"ri*palp, n. Etym: [L. securis ax, hatchet + E. palp.] (Zool.)

Defn: One of a family of beetles having the maxillary palpi
terminating in a hatchet-shaped joint.

SECURITY
Se*cu"ri*ty, n.; pl. Securities. Etym: [L. securitas: cf. F.
securite. See Secure, and cf. Surety.]

1. The condition or quality of being secure; secureness.
Specifically:
(a) Freedom from apprehension, anxiety, or care; confidence of power
of safety; hence, assurance; certainty.
His trembling hand had lost the ease, Which marks security to please.
Sir W. Scott.

(b) Hence, carelessness; negligence; heedlessness.
He means, my lord, that we are too remiss, Whilst Bolingbroke,
through our security, Grows strong and great in substance and in
power. Shak.

(c) Freedom from risk; safety.
Give up yourself merely to chance and hazard, From firm security.
Shak.
Some . . . alleged that we should have no security for our trade.
Swift.

2. That which secures or makes safe; protection; guard; defense.
Specifically:
(a) Something given, deposited, or pledged, to make certain the
fulfillment of an obligation, the performance of a contract, the
payment of a debt, or the like; surety; pledge.
Those who lent him money lent it on no security but his bare word.
Macaulay.

(b) One who becomes surety for another, or engages himself for the
performance of another's obligation.

3. An evidence of debt or of property, as a bond, a certificate of
stock, etc.; as, government securities.

Syn.
 -- Protection; defense; guard; shelter; safety; certainty; ease;
assurance; carelessness; confidence; surety; pledge; bail.

SEDAN
Se*dan", n. Etym: [Said to be named from Sedan, in France, where it
was first made, and whence it was introduced into England in the time
of King Charles I.]

Defn: A portable chair or covered vehicle for carrying a single
person, -- usually borne on poles by two men. Called also sedan
chair.

SEDATE
Se*date", a. Etym: [L. sedatus, p. p. of sedare, sedatum, to allay,
calm, causative of sedere to sit. See Sit.]

Defn: Undisturbed by passion or caprice; calm; tranquil; serene; not
passionate or giddy; composed; staid; as, a sedate soul, mind, or
temper.
Disputation carries away the mind from that calm and sedate temper
which is so necessary to contemplate truth. I. Watts.
Whatsoever we feel and know Too sedate for outward show. Wordsworth.

Syn.
 -- Settled; composed; calm; quiet; tranquil; still; serene;
unruffled; undisturbed; conteplative; sober; serious.
 -- Se*date"ly, adv.
 -- Se*date"ness, n.

SEDATION
Se*da"tion, n. Etym: [L. sedatio.]

Defn: The act of calming, or the state of being calm. [R.] Coles.

SEDATIVE
Sed"a*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sedatif.]

Defn: Tending to calm, moderate, or tranquilize; specifically (Med.),
allaying irritability and irritation; assuaging pain.

SEDATIVE
Sed"a*tive, n. (Med.)

Defn: A remedy which allays irritability and irritation, and
irritative activity or pain.

SEDENT
Se"dent, a. Etym: [L. sedens, -entis, p. pr. of sedere to sit. See
Sit.]

Defn: Sitting; inactive; quiet. [R.]

SEDENTARILY
Sed"en*ta*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sedentary manner.

SEDENTARINESS
Sed"en*ta*r*i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being sedentary.

SEDENTARY
Sed"en*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. sedentarius, fr. sedere to sit: cf. F.
seedentaire. See Sedent.]

1. Accustomed to sit much or long; as, a sedentary man. "Sedentary,
scholastic sophists." Bp. Warburton.

2. Characterized by, or requiring, much sitting; as, a sedentary
employment; a sedentary life.
Any education that confined itself to sedentary pursuits was
essentially imperfect. Beaconsfield.

3. Inactive; motionless; sluggish; hence, calm; tranquil. [R.] "The
sedentary earth." Milton.
The soul, considered abstractly from its passions, is of a remiss,
sedentary nature. Spectator.

4. Caused by long sitting. [Obs.] "Sedentary numbness." Milton.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: Remaining in one place, especially when firmly attached to some
object; as, the oyster is a sedentary mollusk; the barnacles are
sedentary crustaceans. Sedentary spider (Zool.), one of a tribe of
spiders which rest motionless until their prey is caught in their
web.

SEDERUNT
Se*de"runt, n. Etym: [L., they sat, fr. sedere to sit.]

Defn: A sitting, as of a court or other body.
'T is pity we have not Burn's own account of that long sederunt.
Prof. Wilson.
Acts of sederunt (Scots Law), ordinances of the Court of Session for
the ordering of processes and expediting of justice. Bell.

SEDGE
Sedge, n. Etym: [OE. segge, AS. secg; akin to LG. segge; -- probably
named from its bladelike appearance, and akin to L. secare to cut, E.
saw a cutting instrument; cf. Ir. seisg, W. hesg. Cf. Hassock, Saw
the instrument.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Carex, perennial, endogenous herbs,
often growing in dense tufts in marshy places. They have triangular
jointless stems, a spiked inflorescence, and long grasslike leaves
which are usually rough on the margins and midrib. There are several
hundred species.

Note: The name is sometimes given to any other plant of the order
Cyperace?, which includes Carex, Cyperus, Scirpus, and many other
genera of rushlike plants.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A flock of herons. Sedge ken (Zool.), the clapper rail. See
under 5th Rail.
 -- Sedge warbler (Zool.), a small European singing bird
(Acrocephalus phragmitis). It often builds its nest among reeds; --
called also sedge bird, sedge wren, night warbler, and Scotch
nightingale.

SEDGED
Sedged, a.

Defn: Made or composed of sedge.
With your sedged crowns and ever-harmless looks. Shak.

SEDGY
Sedg"y, a.

Defn: Overgrown with sedge.
On the gentle Severn''s sedgy bank. Shak.

SEDILIA
Se*dil"i*a, n. pl.; sing. Sedile (. Etym: [L. sedile a seat.] (Arch.)

Defn: Seats in the chancel of a church near the altar for the
officiating clergy during intervals of service. Hook.

SEDIMENT
Sed"i*ment, n. Etym: [F. sediment, L. sedimentum a settling, fr.
sedere to sit, to settle. See Sit.]

1. The matter which subsides to the bottom, frrom water or any other
liquid; settlings; lees; dregs.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: The material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.

SEDIMENTAL
Sed`i*men"tal, a.

Defn: Sedimentary.

SEDIMENTARY
Sed`i*men"ta*ry, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sedimentaire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to sediment; formed by sediment; containing
matter that has subsided. Sedimentary rocks. (Geol.) See Aqueous
rocks, under Aqueous.

SEDIMENTATION
Sed`i*men*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of depositing a sediment; specifically (Geol.), the
deposition of the material of which sedimentary rocks are formed.

SEDITION
Se*di"tion, n. Etym: [OE. sedicioun, OF. sedition, F. sedition, fr.
L. seditio, originally, a going aside; hence, an insurrectionary
separation; pref. se-, sed-, aside + itio a going, fr. ire, itum, to
go. Cf. Issue.]

1. The raising of commotion in a state, not amounting to
insurrection; conduct tending to treason, but without an overt act;
excitement of discontent against the government, or of resistance to
lawful authority.
In soothing them, we nourish 'gainst our senate The cockle of
rebellion, insolence, sedition. Shak.
Noisy demagogues who had been accused of sedition. Macaulay.

2. Dissension; division; schism. [Obs.]
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, . . . emulations, wrath,
strife, seditions, heresies. Gal. v. 19, 20.

Syn.
 -- Insurrection; tumult; uproar; riot; rebellion; revolt. See
Insurrection.

SEDITIONARY
Se*di"tion*a*ry, n.

Defn: An inciter or promoter of sedition. Bp. Hall.

SEDITIOUS
Se*di"tious, a.Etym: [L. seditiosus: cf. F. seditieux.]

1. Of or pertaining to sedition; partaking of the nature of, or
tending to excite, sedition; as, seditious behavior; seditious
strife; seditious words.

2. Disposed to arouse, or take part in, violent opposition to lawful
authority; turbulent; factious; guilty of sedition; as, seditious
citizens.
 -- Se*di"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Se*di"tious*ness, n.

SEDLITZ
Sed"litz, a.

Defn: Same as Seidlitz.

SEDUCE
Se*duce", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seduced; p. pr. & vb. n. Seducing.]
Etym: [L. seducere, seductum; pref. se- aside + ducere to lead. See
Duke.]

1. To draw aside from the path of rectitude and duty in any manner;
to entice to evil; to lead astray; to tempt and lead to iniquity; to
corrupt.
For me, the gold of France did not seduce. Shak.

2. Specifically, to induce to surrender chastity; to debauch by means
of solicitation.

Syn.
 -- To allure; entice; tempt; attract; mislead; decoy; inveigle. See
Allure.

SEDUCEMENT
Se*duce"ment, n.

1. The act of seducing.

2. The means employed to seduce, as flattery, promises, deception,
etc.; arts of enticing or corrupting. Pope.

SEDUCER
Se*du"cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, seduces; specifically, one who prevails
over the chastity of a woman by enticements and persuasions.
He whose firm faith no reason could remove, Will melt before that
soft seducer, love. Dryden.

SEDUCIBLE
Se*du"ci*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being seduced; corruptible.

SEDUCING
Se*du"cing, a.

Defn: Seductive. "Thy sweet seducing charms." Cowper.
 -- Se*du"cing*ly, adv.

SEDUCTION
Se*duc*tion, n. Etym: [L. seductio: cf. F. seduction. See Seduce.]

1. The act of seducing; enticement to wrong doing; specifically, the
offense of inducing a woman to consent to unlawful sexual
intercourse, by enticements which overcome her scruples; the wrong or
crime of persuading a woman to surrender her chastity.

2. That which seduces, or is adapted to seduce; means of leading
astray; as, the seductions of wealth.

SEDUCTIVE
Se*duc"tive, a.

Defn: Tending to lead astray; apt to mislead by flattering
appearances; tempting; alluring; as, a seductive offer.
This may enable us to understand how seductive is the influence of
example. Sir W. Hamilton.

SEDUCTIVELY
Se*duc"tive*ly, adv.

Defn: In a seductive manner.

SEDUCTRESS
Se*duc"tress, n.

Defn: A woman who seduces.

SEDULITY
Se*du"li*ty, n. Etym: [L. sedulitas. See Sedulous.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sedulous; diligent and assiduous
application; constant attention; unremitting industry; sedulousness.
The industrious bee, by his sedulity in summer, lives in honey all
the winter. Feltham.

SEDULOUS
Sed"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. sedulus, perhaps from sedere to sit, and so
akin to E. sit.]

Defn: Diligent in application or pursuit; constant, steady, and
persevering in business, or in endeavors to effect an object;
steadily industrious; assiduous; as, the sedulous bee.
What signifies the sound of words in prayer, without the affection of
the heart, and a sedulous application of the proper means that may
naturally lead us to such an end L'Estrange.

Syn.
 -- Assiduous; diligent; industrious; laborious; unremitting;
untiring; unwearied; persevering.
 -- Sed"u*lous*ly, adv.
 -- Sed"u*lous*ness, n.

SEDUM
Se"dum, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sedere to sit; so called in allusion to
the manner in which the plants attach themselves to rocks and walls.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants, mostly perennial, having succulent leaves
and cymose flowers; orpine; stonecrop. Gray.

SEE
See, n. Etym: [OE. se, see, OF. se, sed, sied, fr. L. sedes a seat,
or the kindred sedere to sit. See Sit, and cf. Siege.]

1. A seat; a site; a place where sovereign power is exercised. [Obs.]
Chaucer.
Jove laughed on Venus from his sovereign see. Spenser.

2. Specifically: (a) The seat of episcopal power; a diocese; the
jurisdiction of a bishop; as, the see of New York. (b) The seat of an
archibishop; a province or jurisdiction of an archibishop; as, an
archiepiscopal see. (c) The seat, place, or office of the pope, or
Roman pontiff; as, the papal see. (d) The pope or his court at Rome;
as, to appeal to the see of Rome. Apostolic see. See under Apostolic.

SEE
See, v. t. [imp. Saw; p. p. Seen; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeing.] Etym: [OE.
seen, sen, seon, As. seon; akin to OFries. sia, D. zien, OS. & OHG.
sehan, G. sehen, Icel. sja, Sw. se, Dan. see, Goth. saihwan, and
probably to L. sequi to follow (and so originally meaning, to follow
with the eyes). Gr. sac. Cf. Sight, Sun to follow.]

1. To perceive by the eye; to have knowledge of the existence and
apparent qualities of by the organs of sight; to behold; to descry;
to view.
I will new turn aside, and see this great sight. Ex. iii. 3.

2. To perceive by mental vision; to form an idea or conception of; to
note with the mind; to observe; to discern; to distinguish; to
understand; to comprehend; to ascertain.
Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren. Gen.
xxxvii. 14.
Jesus saw that he answered discreetly. Mark xii. 34.
Who 's so gross That seeth not this palpable device Shak.

3. To follow with the eyes, or as with the eyes; to watch; to regard
attentivelly; to look after. Shak.
I had a mind to see him out, and therefore did not care for
centradicting him. Addison.

4. To have an interview with; especially, to make a call upon; to
visit; as, to go to see a friend.
And Samuel came no more to see Saul untill the day of his death. 1
Sam. xv. 35.

5. To fall in with; to have intercourse or communication with; hence,
to have knowledge or experience of; as, to see military service.
Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us,
and the years wherein we have seen evil. Ps. xc. 15.
Verily, verily, I say unto you, if a man keep my saying, he shall
never see death. John viii. 51.
Improvement in visdom and prudence by seeing men. Locke.

6. To accompany in person; to escort; to wait upon; as, to see one
home; to see one aboard the cars. God you (him, or me, etc.) see, God
keep you (him, me, etc.) in his sight; God protect you. [Obs.]
Chaucer.
 -- To see (anything) out, to see (it) to the end; to be present at,
or attend, to the end.
 -- To see stars, to see flashes of light, like stars; -- sometimes
the result of concussion of the head. [Colloq.] -- To see (one)
through, to help, watch, or guard (one) to the end of a course or an
undertaking.

SEE
See, v. i.

1. To have the power of sight, or of perceiving by the proper organs;
to possess or employ the sense of vision; as, he sees distinctly.
Whereas I was blind, now I see. John ix. 25.

2. Figuratively: To have intellectual apprehension; to perceive; to
know; to understand; to discern; -- often followed by a preposition,
as through, or into.
For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might
see; and that they which see might be made blind. John ix. 39.
Many sagacious persons will find us out, . . . and see through all
our fine pretensions. Tillotson.

3. To be attentive; to take care; to give heed; -- generally with to;
as, to see to the house.
See that ye fall not out by the way. Gen. xiv. 24.

Note: Let me see, Let us see, are used to express consideration, or
to introduce the particular consideration of a subject, or some
scheme or calculation.
Cassio's a proper man, let me see now, -To get his place. Shak.

Note: See is sometimes used in the imperative for look, or behold.
"See. see! upon the banks of Boyne he stands." Halifax. To see about
a thing, to pay attention to it; to consider it.
 -- To see on, to look at. [Obs.] "She was full more blissful on to
see." Chaucer.
 -- To see to. (a) To look at; to behold; to view. [Obs.] "An altar
by Jordan, a great altar to see to" Josh. xxii. 10. (b) To take care
about; to look after; as, to see to a fire.

SEECATCH
See"catch, n. [Russ. siekach.] (Zool.)

Defn: A full-grown male fur seal. [Alaska]

SEED
Seed, n.; pl. Seed or Seeds. Etym: [OE. seed, sed, AS. s, fr. sawan
to sow; akin to D. zaad seed, G. saat, Icel. sa, s, Goth. manas seed
of men. world. See Sow to scatter seed, and cf. Colza.]

1. (Bot.)
(a) A ripened ovule, consisting of an embryo with one or more
integuments, or coverings; as, an apple seed; a currant seed. By
germination it produces a new plant.
(b) Any small seedlike fruit, though it may consist of a pericarp, or
even a calyx, as well as the seed proper; as, parsnip seed; thistle
seed.
And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding
seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is
in itself. Gen. i. 11.

Note: The seed proper has an outer and an inner coat, and within
these the kernel or nucleus. The kernel is either the embryo alone,
or the embryo inclosed in the albumen, which is the material for the
nourishment of the developing embryo. The scar on a seed, left where
the stem parted from it, is called the hilum, and the closed orifice
of the ovule, the micropyle.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The generative fluid of the male; semen; sperm; -- not used in
the plural.

3. That from which anything springs; first principle; original;
source; as, the seeds of virtue or vice.

4. The principle of production.
Praise of great acts he scatters as a seed, Which may the like in
coming ages breed. Waller.

5. Progeny; offspring; children; descendants; as, the seed of
Abraham; the seed of David.

Note: In this sense the word is applied to one person, or to any
number collectively, and admits of the plural form, though rarely
used in the plural.

6. Race; generation; birth.
Of mortal seed they were not held. Waller.
Seed bag (Artesian well), a packing to prevent percolation of water
down the bore hole. It consists of a bag encircling the tubing and
filled with flax seed, which swells when wet and fills the space
between the tubing and the sides of the hole.
 -- Seed bud (Bot.), the germ or rudiment of the plant in the embryo
state; the ovule.
 -- Seed coat (Bot.), the covering of a seed.
 -- Seed corn, or Seed grain (Bot.), corn or grain for seed.
 -- Seed down (Bot.), the soft hairs on certain seeds, as cotton
seed.
 -- Seed drill. See 6th Drill, 2 (a).
 -- Seed eater (Zool.), any finch of the genera Sporophila, and
Crithagra. They feed mainly on seeds.
 -- Seed gall (Zool.), any gall which resembles a seed, formed, on
the leaves of various plants, usually by some species of Phylloxera.
 -- Seed leaf (Bot.), a cotyledon.
 -- Seed lobe (Bot.), a cotyledon; a seed leaf.
 -- Seed oil, oil expressed from the seeds of plants.
 -- Seed oyster, a young oyster, especially when of a size suitable
for transplantation to a new locality.
 -- Seed pearl, a small pearl of little value.
 -- Seed plat, or Seed plot, the ground on which seeds are sown, to
produce plants for transplanting; a nursery.
 -- Seed stalk (Bot.), the stalk of an ovule or seed; a funicle.
 -- Seed tick (Zool.), one of several species of ticks resembling
seeds in form and color.
 -- Seed vessel (Bot.), that part of a plant which contains the
seeds; a pericarp.
 -- Seed weevil (Zool.), any one of numerous small weevels,
especially those of the genus Apion, which live in the seeds of
various plants.
 -- Seed wool, cotton wool not yet cleansed of its seeds. [Southern
U.S.]

SEED
Seed, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seeded; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeding.]

1. To sprinkle with seed; to plant seeds in; to sow; as, to seed a
field.

2. To cover thinly with something scattered; to ornament with
seedlike decorations.
A sable mantle seeded with waking eyes. B. Jonson.
To seed down, to sow with grass seed.

SEEDBOX
Seed"box`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A capsule.
(b) A plant (Ludwigia alternifolia) which has somewhat cubical or
box-shaped capsules.

SEEDCAKE
Seed"cake`, n.

Defn: A sweet cake or cooky containing aromatic seeds, as caraway.
Tusser.

SEEDCOD
Seed"cod`, n.

Defn: A seedlip. [Prov. Eng.]

SEEDER
Seed"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sows or plants seed.

SEEDINESS
Seed`i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being seedy, shabby, or worn out; a
state of wretchedness or exhaustion. [Colloq.] G. Eliot.
What is called seedness, after a debauch, is a plain proof that
nature has been outraged. J. S. Blackie.

SEED-LAC
Seed"-lac`, n.

Defn: A species of lac. See the Note under Lac.

SEEDLESS
Seed"less, a.

Defn: Without seed or seeds.

SEEDLING
Seed"ling, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant reared from the seed, as distinguished from one
propagated by layers, buds, or the like.

SEEDLIP; SEEDLOP
Seed"lip`, Seed"lop`, n. Etym: [AS. s; s seed + leap basket.]

Defn: A vessel in which a sower carries the seed to be scattered.
[Prov. Eng.]

SEEDMAN
Seed"man, See

Defn: Seedsman.

SEEDNESS
Seed"ness, n.

Defn: Seedtime. [Obs.] Shak.

SEEDSMAN
Seeds"man, n.; pl. Seedsmen (.

1. A sower; one who sows or scatters seed.
The seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his grain. Shak.

2. A person who deals in seeds.

SEEDTIME
Seed"time`, n. Etym: [AS. s.]

Defn: The season proper for sowing.
While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat,
and summer and winter, and day and night, shall not cease. Gen. viii.
22.

SEEDY
Seed"y, a. [Compar. Seedier; superl. Seediest.]

1. Abounding with seeds; bearing seeds; having run to seeds.

2. Having a peculiar flavor supposed to be derived from the weeds
growing among the vines; -- said of certain kinds of FRench brandy.

3. Old and worn out; exhausted; spiritless; also, poor and miserable
looking; shabily clothed; shabby looking; as, he looked seedy coat.
[Colloq.]
Little Flanigan here . . . is a little seedy, as we say among us that
practice the law. Goldsmith. Seedy toe, an affection of a horse's
foot, in which a cavity filled with horn powder is formed between the
lamin? and the wall of the hoof.

SEEING
See"ing, conj.

Defn: (but originally a present participle). In view of the fact
(that); considering; taking into account (that); insmuch as; since;
because; -- followed by a dependent clause; as, he did well, seeing
that he was so young.
Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me Gen. xxvi. 27.

SEEK
Seek, a.

Defn: Sick. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEEK
Seek, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sought; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeking.] Etym:
[OE, seken, AS. s, s; akin to OS. s, LG. soken, D. zoeken, OHG.
suohhan, G. suchen, Icel. s, Sw. soka, Dan. soge, Goth. s, and E.
sake. Cf. Beseech, Ransack, Sagacious, Sake, Soc.]

1. To go in search of; to look for; to search for; to try to find.
The man saked him, saying, What seekest thou And he said, I seek my
brethren. Gen. xxxvii. 15,16.

2. To inquire for; to ask for; to solicit; to bessech.
Others, tempting him, sought of him a sign. Luke xi. 16.

3. To try to acquire or gain; to strive after; to aim at; as, to seek
wealth or fame; to seek one's life.

4. To try to reach or come to; to go to; to resort to.
Seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal. Amos v. 5.
Since great Ulysses sought the Phrygian plains. Pope.

SEEK
Seek, v. i.

Defn: To make search or inquiry: to endeavor to make discovery.
Seek ye out of the book of the Lord, and read. Isa. xxxiv. 16.
To seek, needing to seek or search; hence, unpreparated.
"Unpracticed, unpreparated, and still to seek." Milton. [Obs] -- To
seek after, to make pursuit of; to attempt to find or take.
 -- To seek for, to endeavor to find.
 -- To seek to, to apply to; to resort to; to court. [Obs.] "All the
earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom." 1. Kings x. 24.
 -- To seek upon, to make strict inquiry after; to follow up; to
persecute. [Obs.]
To seek Upon a man and do his soul unrest. Chaucer.

SEEKER
Seek"er, n.

1. One who seeks; that which is used in seeking or searching.

2. (Eccl.)

Defn: One of a small heterogeneous sect of the 17th century, in Great
Britain, who professed to be seeking the true church, ministry, and
sacraments.
A skeptic [is] ever seeking and never finds, like our new upstart
sect of Seekers. Bullokar.

SEEK-NO-FURTHER
Seek"-no-fur`ther, n.

Defn: A kind of choice winter apple, having a subacid taste; --
formerly called go-no-further.

SEEK-SORROW
Seek"-sor`row, n.

Defn: One who contrives to give himself vexation. [Archaic.] Sir P.
Sidney.

SEEL
Seel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seeled; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeling.] Etym:
[F.siller, ciller, fr. cil an eyelash, L. cilium.]

1. (Falconry)

Defn: To close the eyes of (a hawk or other bird) by drawing through
the lids threads which were fastened over the head. Bacon.
Fools climbs to fall: fond hopes, like seeled doves for want of
better light, mount till they end their flight with falling. J.
Reading.

2. Hence, to shut or close, as the eyes; to blind.
Come, seeling night, Scarf up the tender eye of pitiful day. Shak.
Gold death, with a violent fate, his sable eyes did seel. Chapman.

SEEL
Seel, v. i. Etym: [Cf. LG. sielen to lead off water, F. siller to run
ahead, to make headway, E. sile, v.t.]

Defn: To incline to one side; to lean; to roll, as a ship at sea.
[Obs.] Sir W. Raleigh.

SEEL; SEELING
Seel, Seel"ing, n.

Defn: The rolling or agitation of a ship in a sterm. [Obs.] Sandys.

SEEL
Seel, n. Etym: [AS. s, from s good, prosperous. See Silly.]

1. Good fortune; favorable opportunity; prosperity. [Obs.] "So have I
seel". Chaucer.

2. Time; season; as, hay seel. [Prov. Eng.]

SEELILY
Seel"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a silly manner. [Obs.]

SEELY
Seel"y, a.

Defn: See Silly. [Obs.] Spenser.

SEEM
Seem, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Seemed; p. pr. & vb. n. Seeming.] Etym:
[OE. semen to seem, to become, befit, AS. s to satisfy, pacify; akin
to Icel. s to honor, to bear with, conform to, s becoming, fit, s to
beseem, to befit, sama to beseem, semja to arrange, settle, put
right, Goth. samjan to please, and to E. same. The sense is probably
due to the adj. seemly. sq. root191. See Same, a., and cf. Seemly.]

Defn: To appear, or to appear to be; to have a show or semblance; to
present an appearance; to look; to strike one's apprehension or fancy
as being; to be taken as. "It now seemed probable." Macaulay.
Thou picture of what thou seem'st. Shak.
All seemed well pleased; all seemed, but were not all. Milton.
There is a way which seemeth right unto a man; but the end thereof
are the ways of death. Prov. xiv. 12.
It seems, it appears; it is understood as true; it is said.
A prince of Italy, it seems, entertained his misstress on a great
lake. Addison.

Syn.
 -- To appear; look.
 -- Seem, Appear. To appear has reference to a thing's being
presented to our view; as, the sun appears; to seem is connected with
the idea of semblance, and usually implies an inference of our mind
as to the probability of a thing's being so; as, a storm seems to be
coming. "The story appears to be true," means that the facts, as
presented, go to show its truth; "the story seems to be true," means
that it has the semblance of being so, and we infer that it is true.
"His first and principal care being to appear unto his people such as
he would have them be, and to be such as he appeared." Sir P. Sidney.
Ham. Ay, madam, it is common. Queen. If it be, Why seems it so
particular with thee Ham. Seems, madam! Nay, it is; I know not
"seems." Shak.

SEEM
Seem, v. t.

Defn: To befit; to beseem. [Obs.] Spenser.

SEEMER
Seem"er, n.

Defn: One who seems; one who carries or assumes an appearance or
semblance.
Hence shall we see, If power change purpose, what our seemers be.
Shak.

SEEMING
Seem"ing, a.

Defn: Having a semblance, whether with or without reality; apparent;
specious; befitting; as, seeming friendship; seeming truth.
My lord, you have lost a friend indeed; And I dare swear you borrow
not that face Of seeming sorrow, it is sure your own. Shak.

SEEMING
Seem"ing, n.

1. Appearance; show; semblance; fair appearance; speciousness.
These keep Seeming and savor all the winter long. Shak.

2. Apprehension; judgment. [Obs.] Chaucer.
Nothing more clear unto their seeming. Hooker.
His persuasive words, impregned With reason, to her seeming. Milton.

SEEMINGLY
Seem"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In appearance; in show; in semblance; apparently; ostensibly.
This the father seemingly complied with. Addison.

SEEMINGNESS
Seem"ing*ness, n.

Defn: Semblance; fair appearance; plausibility. Sir K. Digby.

SEEMLESS
Seem"less, a.

Defn: Unseemly. [Obs.] Spenser.

SEEMLILY
Seem"li*ly, adv.

Defn: In a seemly manner. [Obs.]

SEEMLINESS
Seem"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being seemly: comeliness; propriety.

SEEMLY
Seem"ly, a. [Compar.Seemlier (; superl. Seeliest.] Etym: [Icel. s,
fr. s becoming, fit; akin to samr same, E. same; the sense being
properly, the same or like, hence, fitting. See Seem, v. i.]

Defn: Suited to the object, occasion, purpose, or character;
suitable; fit; becoming; comely; decorous.
He had a seemly nose. Chaucer.
I am a woman, lacking wit To make a seemly answer to such persons.
Shak.
Suspense of judgment and exercise of charity were safer and seemlier
for Christian men than the hot pursuit of these controversies.
Hooker.

Syn.
 -- Becoming; fit; suitable; proper; appropriate; congruous; meet;
decent; decorous.

SEEMLY
Seem"ly, adv. [Compar. Seemlier; superl. Seemliest.]

Defn: In a decent or suitable manner; becomingly.
Suddenly a men before him stood, Not rustic as before, but seemlier
clad, As one in city or court or place bred. Milton.

SEEMLYHED
Seem"ly*hed, n. Etym: [See -hood.]

Defn: Comely or decent appearance. [Obs.] Rom. of R. Spenser.

SEEN
Seen, p. p.

Defn: of See.

SEEN
Seen, a.

Defn: Versed; skilled; accomplished. [Obs.]
Well seen in every science that mote be. Spenser.
Noble Boyle, not less in nature seen, Than his great brother read in
states and men. Dryden.

SEEP; SIPE
Seep, or; Sipe, v. i. Etym: [AS. sipan to distill.]

Defn: To run or soak through fine pores and interstices; to ooze.
[Scot. & U. S.]
Water seeps up through the sidewalks. G. W. Cable.

SEEPAGE; SIPAGE
Seep"age, or; Sip"age, n.

Defn: Water that seeped or oozed through a porous soil. [Scot. & U.
S.]

SEEPY; SIPY
Seep"y, or; Sip"y, a.

Defn: Oozy; -- applied to land under cultivation that is not well
drained.

SEER
Seer, a.

Defn: Sore; painful. [Prov. Eng.] Ray.

SEER
Se"er, n.

Defn: One who sees. Addison.

SEER
Seer, n. Etym: [From See.]

Defn: A person who foresees events; a prophet. Milton.

SEERESS
Seer"ess, n.

Defn: A female seer; a prophetess.

SEERFISH
Seer"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A scombroid food fish of Maderia (Cybium Commersonii).

SEERHAND
Seer"hand, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A kind of muslin of a texture between nainsook and mull.

SEERSHIP
Seer"ship, n.

Defn: The office or quality of a seer.

SEERSUCKER
Seer"suck`er, n.

Defn: A light fabric, originally made in the East Indies, of silk and
linen, usually having alternating stripes, and a slightly craped or
puckered surface; also, a cotton fabric of similar appearance.

SEERWOOD
Seer"wood`, n. Etym: [See Sear.]

Defn: Dry wood. [Written also searwood.] [Obs.] Dryden.

SEESAW
See"saw`, n. Etym: [Probably a reduplication of saw, to express the
alternate motion to and fro, as in the act of sawing.]

1. A play among children in which they are seated upon the opposite
ends of a plank which is balanced in the middle, and move alternately
up and down.

2. A plank or board adjusted for this play.

3. A vibratory or reciprocating motion.
He has been arguing in a circle; there is thus a seesaw between the
hypothesis and fact. Sir W. Hamilton.

4. (Whist.)

Defn: Same as Crossruff.

SEESAW
See"saw`, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Seesawad; p. pr. & vb. n. Seesawing.]

Defn: To move with a reciprocating motion; to move backward and
forward, or upward and downward.

SEESAW
See"saw`, v. t.

Defn: To cause to move backward and forward in seesaw fashion.
He seesaws himself to and fro. Ld. Lytton.

SEESAW
See"saw`, a.

Defn: Moving up and down, or to and fro; having a reciprocating
motion.

SEET
Seet, obs. imp. of Sit.

Defn: Sate; sat. Chaucer.

SEETH
Seeth, obs.

Defn: imp. of Seethe. Chaucer.

SEETHE
Seethe, v. t. [imp. Seethed (Sod (, obs.); p. p. Seethed, Sodden (;
p. pr. & vb. n. Seething.] Etym: [OE. sethen, AS. seo; akin to D.
sieden, OHG. siodan, G. sieden, Icel. sj, Sw. sjuda, Dan. syde, Goth.
saubs a burnt offering. Cf. Sod, n., Sodden, Suds.]

Defn: To decoct or prepare for food in hot liquid; to boil; as, to
seethe flesh. [Written also seeth.]
Set on the great pot, and seethe pottage for the sons of the
prophets. 2 Kings iv. 38.

SEETHE
Seethe, v. i.

Defn: To be a state of ebullition or violent commotion; to be hot; to
boil. 1 Sam. ii. 13.
A long Pointe, round which the Mississippi used to whirl, and seethe,
and foam. G. W. Cable.

SEETHER
Seeth"er, n.

Defn: A pot for boiling things; a boiler.
Like burnished gold the little seether shone. Dryden.

SEG
Seg, n. Etym: [See Sedge.] (Bot.)

1. Sedge. [Obs.]

2. The gladen, and other species of Iris. Prior.

SEG
Seg, n. Etym: [Probably from the root of L. secare to cut.]

Defn: A castrated bull. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Halliwell.

SEGAR
Se*gar", n.

Defn: See Cigar.

SEGGAR
Seg"gar, n. Etym: [Prov. E. saggard a seggar, seggard a sort of
riding surtout, contr. fr. safeguard.]

Defn: A case or holder made of fire clay, in which fine pottery is
inclosed while baking in the kin. [Written also saggar, sagger, and
segger.] Ure.

SEGGE
Segge, n. (Zool.

Defn: The hedge sparrow. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SEGMENT
Seg"ment, n. Etym: [L. segmentum, fr. secare to cut, cut off: cf. F.
segment. See Saw a cutting instrument.]

1. One of the parts into which any body naturally separates or is
divided; a part divided or cut off; a section; a portion; as, a
segment of an orange; a segment of a compound or divided leaf.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A part cut off from a figure by a line or plane; especially,
that part of a circle contained between a chord and an arc of that
circle, or so much of the circle as is cut off by the chord; as, the
segment acb in the Illustration.

3. (Mach.)
(a) A piece in the form of the sector of a circle, or part of a ring;
as, the segment of a sectional fly wheel or flywheel rim.
(b) A segment gear.

4. (Biol.)
(a) One of the cells or division formed by segmentation, as in egg
cleavage or in fissiparous cell formation.
(b) One of the divisions, rings, or joints into which many animal
bodies are divided; a somite; a metamere; a somatome. Segment gear, a
piece for receiving or communicating reciprocating motion from or to
a cogwheel, consisting of a sector of a circular gear, or ring,
having cogs on the periphery, or face.
 -- Segment of a line, the part of a line contained between two
points on it.
 -- Segment of a sphere, the part of a sphere cut off by a plane, or
included between two parallel planes.
 -- Ventral segment. (Acoustics) See Loor, n., 5.

SEGMENT
Seg"ment, v. i. (Biol.)

Defn: To divide or separate into parts in growth; to undergo
segmentation, or cleavage, as in the segmentation of the ovum.

SEGMENTAL
Seg*men"tal, a.

1. Relating to, or being, a segment.

2. (Anat. & Zool.)
(a) Of or pertaining to the segments of animals; as, a segmental
duct; segmental papill?.
(b) Of or pertaining to the segmental organs. Segmental duct (Anat.),
the primitive duct of the embryonic excretory organs which gives rise
to the Wolffian duct and ureter; the pronephric duct.
 -- Segmental organs. (a) (Anat.) The embryonic excretory organs of
vertebrates, consisting primarily of the segmental tubes and
segmental ducts. (b) (Zool.) The tubular excretory organs, a pair of
which often occur in each of several segments in annelids. They serve
as renal organs, and often, also, as oviducts and sperm ducts. See
Illust. under Sipunculacea.
 -- Segmental tubes (Anat.), the tubes which primarily open into the
segmental duct, some of which become the urinary tubules of the
adult.

SEGMENTATION
Seg`men*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act or process of dividing into segments; specifically
(Biol.), a self-division into segments as a result of growth; cell
cleavage; cell multiplication; endogenous cell formation.
Segmentation cavity (Biol.), the cavity formed by the arrangement of
the cells in segmentation or cleavage of the ovum; the cavity of the
blastosphere. In the gastrula stage, the segmentation cavity in which
the mesoblast is formed lies between the entoblast and ectoblast. See
Illust. of Invagination.
 -- Segmentation nucleus (Biol.), the body formed by fusion of the
male and female pronucleus in an impregnated ovum. See the Note under
Pronucleus.
 -- Segmentation of the ovum, or Egg cleavage (Biol.), the process by
which the embryos of all the higher plants and animals are derived
from the germ cell. In the simplest case, that of small ova destitute
of food yolk, the ovum or egg divides into two similar halves or
segments (blastomeres), each of these again divides into two, and so
on, thus giving rise to a mass of cells (mulberry mass, or morula),
all equal and similar, from the growth and development of which the
future animal is to be formed. This constitutes regular segmentation.
Quite frequently, however, the equality and regularity of cleavage is
interfered with by the presence of food yolk, from which results
unequal segmentation. See Holoblastic, Meroblastic, Alecithal,
Centrolecithal, Ectolecithal, and Ovum.
 -- Segmentation sphere (Biol.), the blastosphere, or morula. See
Morula.

SEGMENTED
Seg"ment*ed, a.

Defn: Divided into segments or joints; articulated.

SEGNITUDE; SEGNITY
Seg"ni*tude, Seg"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. segnitas, fr. segnis slow,
sluggish.]

Defn: Sluggishness; dullness; inactivity. [Obs.]

SEGNO
Se"gno, n. Etym: [It. See Sign.] (Mus.)

Defn: A sign. See Al segno, and Dal segno.

SEGO
Se"go, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A liliaceous plant (Calochortus Nuttallii) of Western North
America, and its edible bulb; -- so called by the Ute Indians and the
Mormons.

SEGREGATE
Seg"re*gate, a. Etym: [L. segregatus, p. p. of segregare to separate;
pref. se- aside + grex, gregis, a flock or herd. See Gregarious.]

1. Separate; select.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Separated from others of the same kind.

SEGREGATE
Seg"re*gate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Segregated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Segregating.]

Defn: To separate from others; to set apart.
They are still segregated, Christians from Christians, under odious
designations. I. Taylor.

SEGREGATE
Seg"re*gate, v. i. (Geol.)

Defn: To separate from a mass, and collect together about centers or
along lines of fracture, as in the process of crystallization or
solidification.

SEGREGATION
Seg`re*ga"tion, n. Etym: [L. segregatio: cf. F. segregation.]

1. The act of segregating, or the state of being segregated;
separation from others; a parting.

2. (Geol.)

Defn: Separation from a mass, and gathering about centers or into
cavities at hand through cohesive attraction or the crystallizing
process.

SEICHES
Seiches, n. pl. Etym: [F.] (Geol.)

Defn: Local oscillations in level observed in the case of some lakes,
as Lake Geneva.

SEID
Seid, n. Etym: [Ar seyid prince.]

Defn: A descendant of Mohammed through his daughter Fatima and nephew
Ali.

SEIDLITZ
Seid"litz, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Seidlitz, a village in Bohemia. [Written
also Sedlitz.] Seidlitz powders, effervescing salts, consisting of
two separate powders, one of which contains forty grains of sodium
bicarbonate mixed with two drachms of RochellRochelle powders.
 -- Seidlitz water, a natural water from Seidlitz, containing
magnesium, sodium, calcium, and potassium sulphates, with calcium
carbonate and a little magnesium chloride. It is used as an aperient.

SEIGH
Seigh,

Defn: obs. imp. sing. of See. Saw. Chaucer.

SEIGNEURIAL
Seign*eu"ri*al, a. Etym: [F., fr. seigneur. See Seignior.]

1. Of or pertaining to the lord of a manor; manorial. Sir W. Temple.

2. Vested with large powers; independent.

SEIGNIOR
Seign"ior, n. Etym: [OF. seignor, F. seigneur, cf. It. signore, Sp.
senor from an objective case of L. senier elder. See Senior.]

1. A lord; the lord of a manor.

2. A title of honor or of address in the South of Europe,
corresponding to Sir or Mr. in English. Grand Seignior, the sultan of
Turkey.

SEIGNIORAGE
Seign"ior*age, n. Etym: [F. seigneuriage, OF. seignorage.]

1. Something claimed or taken by virtue of sovereign prerogative;
specifically, a charge or toll deducted from bullion brought to a
mint to be coined; the difference between the cost of a mass of
bullion and the value as money of the pieces coined from it.
If government, however, throws the expense of coinage, as is
reasonable, upon the holders, by making a charge to cover the expense
(which is done by giving back rather less in coin than has been
received in bullion, and is called "levying a seigniorage"), the coin
will rise to the extent of the seigniorage above the value of the
bullion. J. S. Mill.

2. A share of the receipts of a business taken in payment for the use
of a right, as a copyright or a patent.

SEIGNIORAL
Seign"ior*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a seignior; seigneurial. "Kingly or
seignioral patronage." Burke.

SEIGNIORALTY
Seign"ior*al*ty, n.

Defn: The territory or authority of a seignior, or lord. Milman.

SEIGNIORIAL
Seign*io"ri*al, a.

Defn: Same as Seigneurial.

SEIGNIORIZE
Seign"ior*ize, v. t.

Defn: To lord it over. [Obs.]
As proud as he that seigniorizeth hell. Fairfax.

SEIGNIORY
Seign"ior*y, n.; pl. -ies. Etym: [OE. seignorie, OF. seigneurie, F.
seigneurie; cf. It. signoria.]

1. The power or authority of a lord; dominion.
O'Neal never had any seigniory over that country but what by
encroachment he got upon the English. Spenser.

2. The territory over which a lord holds jurisdiction; a manor.
[Written also seigneury, and seignory.]

SEINE
Seine, n. Etym: [F. seine, or AS. segene, bsagena, Gr. (Fishing.)

Defn: A large net, one edge of which is provided with sinkers, and
the other with floats. It hangs vertically in the water, and when its
ends are brought together or drawn ashore incloses the fish. Seine
boat, a boat specially constructed to carry and pay out a seine.

SEINER
Sein"er, n.

Defn: One who fishes with a seine.

SEINING
Sein"ing, n.

Defn: Fishing with a seine.

SEINT
Seint, n. Etym: [See Cincture.]

Defn: A girdle. [Obs.] "Girt with a seint of silk." Chaucer.

SEINT
Seint, n.

Defn: A saint. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEINTUARY
Sein"tu*a*ry, n.

Defn: Sanctuary. [Obs.]

SEIRFISH
Seir"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Seerfish.

SEIROSPORE
Sei"ro*spore, n. Etym: [Gr. spore.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of several spores arranged in a chain as in certain alg? of
the genus Callithamnion.

SEISE
Seise, v. t.

Defn: See Seize. Spenser.

Note: This is the common spelling in the law phrase to be seised of
(an estate).

SEISIN
Sei"sin, n.

Defn: See Seizin. Spenser.

SEISMIC; SEISMAL
Seis"mic, Seis"mal, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to an earthquake; caused by an earthquake.
Seismic vertical, the point upon the earth's surface vertically over
the center of effort or focal point whence the earthquake's impulse
proceeds, or the vertical line connecting these two points.

SEISMOGRAM
Seis"mo*gram, n. [Gr.  earthquake + -gram.] (Physics)

Defn: The trace or record of an earth tremor, made by means of a
seismograph.

SEISMOGRAPH
Seis"mo*graph, n. Etym: [Gr. -graph.] (Physics)

Defn: An apparatus for registering the shocks and undulatory motions
of earthquakes.

SEISMOGRAPHIC
Seis`mo*graph"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a seismograph; indicated by a seismograph.

SEISMOGRAPHY
Seis*mog"ra*phy, n.

1. A writing about, or a description of, earthquakes.

2. The art of registering the shocks and undulatory movements of
earthquakes.

SEISMOLOGICAL
Seis`mo*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to seismology.
 -- Seis`mo*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

SEISMOLOGY
Seis*mol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The science of earthquakes.

SEISMOMETER
Seis*mom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Gr. -meter.] (Physics)

Defn: An instrument for measuring the direction, duration, and force
of earthquakes and like concussions.

SEISMOMETRIC
Seis`mo*met"ric, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to seismometry, or seismometer; as,
seismometric instruments; seismometric measurements.

SEISMOMETRY
Seis*mom"e*try, n.

Defn: The mensuration of such phenomena of earthquakes as can be
expressed in numbers, or by their relation to the coordinates of
space.

SEISMOSCOPE
Seis"mo*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.] (Physics)

Defn: A seismometer.

SEITY
Se"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. se one's self.]

Defn: Something peculiar to one's self. [R.] Tatler.

SEIZABLE
Seiz"a*ble, a.

Defn: That may be seized.

SEIZE
Seize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seized; p. pr. & vb. n. Seizing.] Etym:
[OE. seisen, saisen, OF. seisir, saisir, F. saisir, of Teutonic
origin, and akin to E. set. The meaning is properly, to set, put,
place, hence, to put in possession of. See Set, v. t.]

1. To fall or rush upon suddenly and lay hold of; to gripe or grasp
suddenly; to reach and grasp.
For by no means the high bank he could seize. Spenser.
Seek you to seize and gripe into your hands The royalties and rights
of banished Hereford Shak.

2. To take possession of by force.
At last they seize The scepter, and regard not David's sons. Milton.

3. To invade suddenly; to take sudden hold of; to come upon suddenly;
as, a fever seizes a patient.
Hope and deubt alternate seize her seul. Pope.

4. (law)

Defn: To take possession of by virtue of a warrant or other legal
authority; as, the sheriff seized the debtor's goods.

5. To fasten; to fix. [Obs.]
As when a bear hath seized her cruel claws Upon the carcass of some
beast too weak. Spenser.

6. To grap with the mind; to comprehend fully and distinctly; as, to
seize an idea.

7. (Naut.)

Defn: To bind or fasten together with a lashing of small stuff, as
yarn or marline; as, to seize ropes.

Note: This word, by writers on law, is commonly written seise, in the
phrase to be seised of (an estate), as also, in composition,
disseise, disseisin. To be seized of, to have possession, or right of
possession; as, A B was seized and possessed of the manor of Dale.
"Whom age might see seized of what youth made prize." Chapman.
 -- To seize on or upon, to fall on and grasp; to take hold on; to
take possession of suddenly and forcibly.

Syn.
 -- To catch; grasp; clutch; snatch; apprehend; arrest; take;
capture.

SEIZER
Seiz"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, seizes.

SEIZIN
Sei"zin, n. Etym: [F. saisine. See Seize.]

1. (Law)

Defn: Possession; possession of an estate of froehold. It may be
either in deed or in law; the former when there is actual possession,
the latter when there is a right to such possession by construction
of law. In some of the United States seizin means merely ownership.
Burrill.

2. The act of taking possession. [Obs.]

3. The thing possessed; property. Sir M. Halle.

Note: Commonly spelt by writers on law seisin. Livery of seizin.
(Eng. Law) See Note under Livery, 1.

SEIZING
Seiz"ing, n.

1. The act of taking or grasping suddenly.

2. (Naut.)
(a) The operation of fastening together or lashing.
(b) The cord or lashing used for such fastening.

SEIZOR
Sei"zor, n. (Law)

Defn: One who seizes, or takes possession.

SEIZURE
Sei"zure, n.

1. The act of seizing, or the state of being seized; sudden and
violent grasp or gripe; a taking into possession; as, the seizure of
a thief, a property, a throne, etc.

2. Retention within one's grasp or power; hold; possession;
ownership.
Make o'er thy honor by a deed of trust, And give me seizure of the
mighty wealth. Dryden.

3. That which is seized, or taken possession of; a thing laid hold
of, or possessed.

SEJANT; SEJEANT
Se"jant, Se"jeant, a. Etym: [F. seant, p. pr. of seoir to sit, L.
sedere.] (Her.)

Defn: Sitting, as a lion or other beast. Sejant rampant, sitting with
the forefeet lifted up. Wright.

SEJEIN
Se*jein", v. t. Etym: [L. sejungere; pref. se- aside + jungere to
join. See Join.]

Defn: To separate. [Obs.]

SEJUNCTION
Se*junc"tion, n. Etym: [L. sejunctio. See Sejoin.]

Defn: The act of disjoining, or the state of being disjoined. [Obs.]
Bp. Pearson.

SEJUNGIBLE
Se*jun"gi*ble, a. Etym: [See Sejoin.]

Defn: Capable of being disjoined. [Obs.] Bp. Pearson.

SEKE
Seke, a.

Defn: Sick. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEKE
Seke, v. t. & i.

Defn: To seek. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEKES
Se"kes, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Arch.)

Defn: A place in a pagan temple in which the images of the deities
were inclosed.

SELACHIAN
Se*la"chi*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Selachii. See Illustration in Appendix.

SELACHII
Se*la"chi*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of elasmobranchs including the sharks and rays; the
Plagiostomi. Called also Selacha, Selache, and Selachoidei.

SELACHOIDEI
Sel`a*choi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Selachii, and -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Selachii.

SELACHOSTOMI
Sel`a*chos"to*mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Selachii, and Stoma.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of ganoid fishes which includes the paddlefish, in
which the mouth is armed with small teeth.

SELAGINELLA
Sel`a*gi*nel"la, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. selago, -inis, a kind of
plant.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of cryptogamous plants resembling Lycopodia, but
producing two kinds of spores; also, any plant of this genus. Many
species are cultivated in conservatories.

SELAH
Se"lah, n. Etym: [Heb. selah.] (Script.)

Defn: A word of doubtful meaning, occuring frequently in the Psalms;
by some, supposed to signify silence or a pause in the musical
performance of the song.
Beyond the fact that Selach is a musical term, we know absolutely
nothing about it. Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.)

SELCOUTH
Sel"couth, n. Etym: [AS. selc, seldc; seld rare + c known. See
Uncouth.]

Defn: Rarely known; unusual; strange. [Obs.]
[She] wondered much at his so selcouth case. Spenser.

SELD
Seld, a. Etym: [See Seldom.]

Defn: Rare; uncommon; unusual. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

SELD
Seld, adv.

Defn: Rarely; seldom. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SELDEN
Sel"den, adv.

Defn: Seldom. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SELDOM
Sel"dom, adv. [Usually, compar. More seldom (; superl. Most seldom (;
but sometimes also, Seldomer (, Seldomest.] Etym: [AS. seldan,
seldon, seldum, fr. seld rare; akin to OFries. sielden, D. zelden, G.
selten, OHG. seltan, Icel. sjaldan, Dan. sielden, Sw. sallan, Goth.
sildaleiks marvelous.]

Defn: Rarely; not often; not frequently.
Wisdom and youth are seldom joined in one. Hooker.

SELDOM
Sel"dom, a.

Defn: Rare; infrequent. [Archaic.] "A suppressed and seldom anger."
Jer. Taylor.

SELDOMNESS
Sel"dom*ness, n.

Defn: Rareness. Hooker.

SELDSEEN
Seld"seen`, a. Etym: [AS. seldsiene.]

Defn: Seldom seen. [Obs.] Drayton.

SELDSHEWN
Seld"shewn`, a. Etym: [Seld + shown.]

Defn: Rarely shown or exhibited. [Obs.] Shak.

SELECT
Se*lect", a. Etym: [L. selectus, p. p. of seligere to select; pref.
se- aside + levere to gather. See Legend.]

Defn: Taken from a number by preferance; picked out as more valuable
or exellent than others; of special value or exellence; nicely
chosen; selected; choice.
A few select spirits had separated from the crowd, and formed a fit
audience round a far greater teacher. Macaulay.

SELECT
Se*lect", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Selected; p. pr. & vb. n. Selecting.]

Defn: To choose and take from a number; to take by preference from
among others; to pick out; to cull; as, to select the best authors
for perusal. "One peculiar nation to select." Milton.
The pious chief . . . A hundred youths from all his train selects.
Dryden.

SELECTEDLY
Se*lect"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: With care and selection. [R.]

SELECTION
Se*lec"tion, n. Etym: [L. selectio: cf. F. selection.] .

Defn: The act of selecting, or the state of being selected; choice,
by preference.

2. That which is selected; a collection of things chosen; as, a
choice selection of books. Natural selection. (Biol.) See under
Natural.

SELECTIVE
Se*lect"ive, a.

Defn: Selecting; tending to select.
This selective providence of the Almighty. Bp. Hall.

SELECTMAN
Se*lect"man, n.; pl. Selectmen (.

Defn: One of a board of town officers chosen annually in the New
England States to transact the general public business of the town,
and have a kind of executive authority. The number is usually from
three to seven in each town.
The system of delegated town action was then, perhaps, the same which
was defined in an "order made in 1635 by the inhabitants of
Charlestown at a full meeting for the government of the town, by
selectmen;" the name presently extended throughout New England to
municipal governors. Palfrey.

SELECTNESS
Se*lect"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being select.

SELECTOR
Se*lect"or, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who selects.

SELENATE
Sel"e*nate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of selenic acid; -- formerly called also seleniate.

SELENHYDRIC
Sel`en*hy"dric, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, hydrogen selenide, H2Se,
regarded as an acid analogous to sulphydric acid.

SELENIC
Se*len"ic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. selenique.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to selenium; derived from, or containing,
selenium; specifically, designating those compounds in which the
element has a higher valence as contrasted with selenious compounds.

SELENIDE
Sel"e*nide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of selenium, or a compound regarded as
binary; as, ethyl selenide.

SELENIFEROUS
Sel`e*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Selenium + -ferous. ]

Defn: Containing, or impregnated with, selenium; as, seleniferous
pyrites.

SELENIO-
Se*le"ni*o- (. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence
of selenium or its compounds; as, selenio-phosphate, a phosphate
having selenium in place of all, or a part, of the oxygen.

SELENIOUS
Se*le"ni*ous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. selenieux.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or containing, selenium; specifically,
designating those compounds in which the element has a lower valence
as contrasted with selenic compounds.

SELENITE
Sel"e*nite, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of selenious acid.

SELENITE
Sel"e*nite, n. Etym: [L. selenites, Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of gypsum, occuring in transparent crystals or
crystalline masses.

SELENITIC; SELENITICAL
Sel`e*nit"ic, Sel`e*nit"ic*al, a. (Min.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to selenite; resembling or containing
selenite.

SELENIUM
Se*le"ni*um, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. tellurium (from L. tellus the
earth), being, as it were, a companion to it.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nonmetallic element of the sulphur group, and analogous to
sulphur in its compounds. It is found in small quantities with
sulphur and some sulphur ores, and obtained in the free state as a
dark reddish powder or crystalline mass, or as a dark metallic-
looking substance. It exhibits under the action of light a remarkable
variation in electric conductivity, and is used in certain electric
apparatus. Symbol Se. Atomic weight 78.9.

SELENIURET
Sel`e*ni"u*ret, n. (CHem.)

Defn: A selenide. [Obs.]

SELENIURETED
Sel`e*ni"u*ret`ed, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined with selenium as in a selenide; as, seleniureted
hydrogen. [Written also seleniuretted.] [Obsoles.]

SELENOCENTRIC
Se*le`no*cen"tric, a. Etym: [Gr. centric.] (Astron.)

Defn: As seen or estimated from the center of the moon; with the moon
central.

SELENOGRAPH
Se*le"no*graph

Defn: , n. A picture or delineation of the moon's surface, or of any
part of it.

SELENOGRAPHER
Sel`e*nog"ra*pher, n.

Defn: One skilled in selenography. Wright.

SELENOGRAPHIC; SELENOGRAPHICAL
Sel`e*no*graph"ic, Sel`e*no*graph"i*cal, a. Etym: [Cf. F.
selenographique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to selenography.

SELENOGRAPHIST
Sel`e*nog"ra*phist, n.

Defn: A selenographer.

SELENOGRAPHY
Sel`e*nog"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The science that treats of the physical features of the moon; -
- corresponding to physical geography in respect to the earth.
"Accurate selenography, or description of the moon." Sir T. Browne.

SELENOLOGY
Sel`e*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr.-logy.]

Defn: That branch of astronomy which treats of the moon.
 -- Sel`e*no*log"i*cal, a.

SELENONIUM
Sel`e*no"ni*um, n. Etym: [Selenium + sulphonium.] (Chem.)

Defn: A hypothetical radical of selenium, analogous to sulphonium.
[R.]

SELF
Self, a. Etym: [AS. self, seolf, sylf; akin to OS. self, OFries.
self, D. zelf, G. selb, selber, selbst, Dan. selv. Sw. sjelf, Icel.
sjalfr, Goth. silba. Cf. Selavage.]

Defn: Same; particular; very; identical. [Obs., except in the
compound selfsame.] "On these self hills." Sir. W. Raleigh.
To shoot another arrow that self way Which you did shoot the first.
Shak.
At that self moment enters Palamon. Dryden.

SELF
Self, n.; pl. Selves (.

1. The individual as the object of his own reflective consciousness;
the man viewed by his own cognition as the subject of all his mental
phenomena, the agent in his own activities, the subject of his own
feelings, and the possessor of capacities and character; a person as
a distinct individual; a being regarded as having personality. "Those
who liked their real selves." Addison.
A man's self may be the worst fellow to converse with in the world.
Pope.
The self, the I, is recognized in every act of intelligence as the
subject to which that act belongs. It is I that perceive, I that
imagine, I that remember, I that attend, I that compare, I that feel,
I that will, I that am conscious. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. Hence, personal interest, or love of private interest;
selfishness; as, self is his whole aim.

3. Personification; embodiment. [Poetic.]
She was beauty's self. Thomson.

Note: Self is united to certain personal pronouns and pronominal
adjectives to express emphasis or distinction. Thus, for emphasis; I
myself will write; I will examine for myself; thou thyself shalt go;
thou shalt see for thyself; you yourself shall write; you shall see
for yourself; he himself shall write; he shall examine for himself;
she herself shall write; she shall examine for herself; the child
itself shall be carried; it shall be present itself. It is also used
reflexively; as, I abhor myself; thou enrichest thyself; he loves
himself; she admires herself; it pleases itself; we walue ourselves;
ye hurry yourselves; they see themselves. Himself, herself,
themselves, are used in the nominative case, as well as in the
objective. "Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples." John iv.
2.

Note: Self is used in the formation of innumerable compounds, usually
of obvious signification, in most of which it denotes either the
agent or the object of the action expressed by the word with which it
is joined, or the person in behalf of whom it is performed, or the
person or thing to, for, or towards whom or which a quality,
attribute, or feeling expressed by the following word belongs, is
directed, or is exerted, or from which it proceeds; or it denotes the
subject of, or object affected by, such action, quality, attribute,
feeling, or the like; as, self-abandoning, self-abnegation, self-
abhorring, self-absorbed, self-accusing, self-adjusting, self-
balanced, self-boasting, self-canceled, self-combating, self-
commendation, self-condemned, self-conflict, self-conquest, self-
constituted, self-consumed, self-contempt, self-controlled, self-
deceiving, self-denying, self-destroyed, self-disclosure, self-
display, self-dominion, self-doomed, self-elected, self-evolved,
self-exalting, self-excusing, self-exile, self-fed, self-fulfillment,
self-governed, self-harming, self-helpless, self-humiliation, self-
idolized, self-inflicted, self-improvement, self-instruction, self-
invited, self-judging, self-justification, self-loathing, self-
loving, self-maintenance, self-mastered, self-nourishment, self-
perfect, self-perpetuation, self-pleasing, self-praising, self-
preserving, self-questioned, self-relying, self-restraining, self-
revelation, self-ruined, self-satisfaction, self-support, self-
sustained, self-sustaining, self-tormenting, self-troubling, self-
trust, self-tuition, self-upbraiding, self-valuing, self-worshiping,
and many others.

SELF-ABASED
Self`-a*based", a.

Defn: Humbled by consciousness of inferiority, unworthiness, guilt,
or shame.

SELF-ABASEMENT
Self`-a*base"ment, n.

1. Degradation of one's self by one's own act.

2. Humiliation or abasement proceeding from consciousness of
inferiority, guilt, or shame.

SELF-ABASING
Self`-a*bas"ing, a.

Defn: Lowering or humbling one's self.

SELF-ABHORRENCE
Self`-ab*hor"rence, n.

Defn: Abhorrence of one's self.

SELF-ABNEGATION
Self`-ab`ne*ga"tion, n.

Defn: Self-denial; self-renunciation; self-sacrifice.

SELF-ABUSE
Self`-abuse", n.

1. The abuse of one's own self, powers, or faculties.

2. Self-deception; delusion. [Obs.] Shak.

3. Masturbation; onanism; self-pollution.

SELF-ACCUSED
Self"-ac*cused", a.

Defn: Accused by one's self or by one's conscience. "Die self-
accused." Cowper.

SELF-ACTING
Self`-act"ing, a.

Defn: Acting of or by one's self or by itself; -- said especially of
a machine or mechanism which is made to perform of or for itself what
is usually done by human agency; automatic; as, a self-acting feed
apparatus; a self-acting mule; a self-acting press.

SELF-ACTION
Self`-ac"tion, n.

Defn: Action by, or originating in, one's self or itself.

SELF-ACTIVE
Self`-ac"tive, a.

Defn: Acting of one's self or of itself; acting without depending on
other agents.

SELF-ACTIVITY
Self`-ac*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-active; self-action.

SELF-ADJUSTING
Self`-ad*just"ing, a. (Mach.)

Defn: Capable of assuming a desired position or condition with
relation to other parts, under varying circumstances, without
requiring to be adjusted by hand; -- said of a piece in machinery.
Self-adjusting bearing (Shafting), a bearing which is supported in
such a manner that it may tip to accomodate flexure or displacement
of the shaft.

SELF-ADMIRATION
Self`-ad`mi*ra"tion, n.

Defn: Admiration of one's self.

SELF-AFFAIRS
Self`-af*fairs", n. pl.

Defn: One's own affairs; one's private business. [Obs.] Shak.

SELF-AFFRIGHTED
Self`-af*fright"ed, a.

Defn: Frightened at or by one's self. Shak.

SELF-AGGRANDIZEMENT
Self`-ag*gran"dize*ment, n.

Defn: The aggrandizement of one's self.

SELF-ANNIHILATED
Self`-an*ni"hi*la`ted, a.

Defn: Annihilated by one's self.

SELF-ANNIHILATION
Self`-an*ni`hi*la"tion, n.

Defn: Annihilation by one's own acts; annihilation of one's desires.
Addison.

SELF-APPLAUSE
Self`-ap*plause", n.

Defn: Applause of one's self.

SELF-APPLYING
Self`-ap*ply"ing, a.

Defn: Applying to or by one's self.

SELF-APPROVING
Self`-ap*prov"ing, a.

Defn: Approving one's own action or character by one's own judgment.
One self-approving hour whole years outweighs Of stupid starers and
of loud huzzas. Pope.

SELF-ASSERTING
Self`-as*sert"ing, a.

Defn: asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims; hence,
putting one's self forward in a confident or assuming manner.

SELF-ASSERTION
Self`-as*ser"tion, n.

Defn: The act of asserting one's self, or one's own rights or claims;
the quality of being self-asserting.

SELF-ASSERTIVE
Self`-as*sert"ive, a.

Defn: Disposed to self-assertion; self-asserting.

SELF-ASSUMED
Self`-as*sumed`, a.

Defn: Assumed by one's own act, or without authority.

SELF-ASSURED
Self`-as*sured`, a.

Defn: Assured by or of one's self; self-reliant; complacent.

SELF-BANISHED
Self`-ban"ished, a.

Defn: Exiled voluntarily.

SELF-BEGOTTEN
Self"-be*got"ten, a.

Defn: Begotten by one's self, or one's own powers.

SELF-BINDER
Self`-bind"er, n.

Defn: A reaping machine containing mechanism for binding the grain
into sheaves.

SELF-BORN
Self"-born`, a.

Defn: Born or produced by one's self.

SELF-CENTERED; SELF-CENTRED
Self`-cen"tered, Self`-cen"tred, a.

Defn: Centered in itself, or in one's self.
There hangs the ball of earth and water mixt, Self-centered and
unmoved. Dryden.

SELF-CENTERING; SELF-CENTRING
Self`-cen"ter*ing, Self`-cen"tring a.

Defn: Centering in one's self.

SELF-CENTRATION
Self`-cen*tra"tion, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-centered.

SELF-CHARITY
Self`-char"i*ty, n.

Defn: Self-love. [Obs.] Shak.

SELF-COLOR
Self"-col`or, n.

Defn: A color not mixed or variegated.

SELF-COLORED
Self`-col"ored, a.

Defn: Being of a single color; -- applied to flowers, animals, and
textile fabrics.

SELF-COMMAND
Self`-com*mand", n.

Defn: Control over one's own feelings, temper, etc.; self-control.

SELF-COMMUNE
Self`-com*mune", n.

Defn: Self-communion. [R.]

SELF-COMMUNICATIVE
Self`-com*mu"ni*ca*tive, a.

Defn: Imparting or communicating by its own powers.

SELF-COMMUNION
Self`-com*mun"ion, n.

Defn: Communion with one's self; thoughts about one's self.

SELF-COMPLACENCY
Self`-com*pla"cen*cy, n.

Defn: The quality of being self-complacent. J. Foster.

SELF-COMPLACENT
Self`-com*pla"cent, a.

Defn: Satisfied with one's own character, capacity, and doings; self-
satisfied.

SELF-CONCEIT
Self`-con*ceit", n.

Defn: Conceit of one's self; an overweening opinion of one's powers
or endowments.

Syn.
 -- See Egotism.

SELF-CONCEITED
Self`-con*ceit"ed, a.

Defn: Having an overweening opinion of one's own powers, attainments;
vain; conceited.
 -- Self`-con*ceit"ed*ness, n.

SELF-CONCERN
Self`-con*cern", n.

Defn: Concern for one's self.

SELF-CONDEMNATION
Self`-con`dem*na"tion, n.

Defn: Condemnation of one's self by one's own judgment.

SELF-CONFIDENCE
Self`-con"fi*dence, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-confident; self-reliance.
A feeling of self-confidence which supported and sustained him.
Beaconsfield.

SELF-CONFIDENT
Self`-con"fi*dent, a.

Defn: Confident of one's own strength or powers; relying on one's
judgment or ability; self-reliant.
 -- Self`-con"fi*dent*ly, adv.

SELF-CONJUGATE
Self`-con"ju*gate, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Having the two things that are conjugate parts of the same
figure; as, self-conjugate triangles.

SELF-CONSCIOUS
Self`-con"scious, a.

1. Conscious of one's acts or state as belonging to, or originating
in, one's self. "My self-conscious worth." Dryden.

2. Conscious of one's self as an object of the observation of others;
as, the speaker was too self-conscious.

SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS
Self`-con"scious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-conscious.

SELF-CONSIDERING
Self`-con*sid"er*ing, a.

Defn: Considering in one's own mind; deliberating. Pope.

SELF-CONSISTENCY
Self`-con*sist"en*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-consistent.

SELF-CONSISTENT
Self`-con*sist"ent, a.

Defn: Consistent with one's self or with itself; not deviation from
the ordinary standard by which the conduct is guided; logically
consistent throughout; having each part consistent with the rest.

SELF-CONSUMING
Self`-con*sum"ing, a.

Defn: Consuming one's self or itself.

SELF-CONTAINED
Self`-con*tained", a.

1. Having self-control; reserved; uncommunicative; wholly engrossed
in one's self.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: Having all the essential working parts connected by a bedplate
or framework, or contained in a case, etc., so that mutual relations
of the parts do not depend upon fastening outside of the machine
itself. Self-contained steam engine. (a) A steam engine having both
bearings for the crank shaft attached to the frame of the engine. (b)
A steam engine and boiler combined and fastened together; a portable
steam engine.

SELF-CONTRADICTION
Self`-con`tra*dic"tion, n.

Defn: The act of contradicting one's self or itself; repugnancy in
conceptions or in terms; a proposition consisting of two members, one
of which contradicts the other; as, to be and not to be at the same
time is a self-contradiction.

SELF-CONTRADICTORY
Self`-con`tra*dict"o*ry, a.

Defn: Contradicting one's self or itself.

SELF-CONTROL
Self`-con*trol", n.

Defn: Control of one's self; restraint exercised over one's self;
self-command.

SELF-CONVICTED
Self`-con*vict"ed, a.

Defn: Convicted by one's own consciousness, knowledge, avowal, or
acts.

SELF-CONVICTION
Self`-con*vic"tion, n.

Defn: The act of convicting one's self, or the state of being self-
convicted.

SELF-CREATED
Self`-cre*at"ed, a.

Defn: Created by one's self; not formed or constituted by another.

SELF-CULTURE
Self`-cul"ture, n.

Defn: Culture, training, or education of one's self by one's own
efforts.

SELF-DECEIT
Self`-de*ceit", n.

Defn: The act of deceiving one's self, or the state of being self-
deceived; self-deception.

SELF-DECEIVED
Self`-de*ceived", a.

Defn: Deceived or misled respecting one's self by one's own mistake
or error.

SELF-DECEPTION
Self`-de*cep"tion, n.

Defn: Self-deceit.

SELF-DEFENCE
Self`-de*fence", n.

Defn: See Self-defense.

SELF-DEFENSE
Self`-de*fense", n.

Defn: The act of defending one's own person, property, or reputation.
In self-defense (Law), in protection of self, -- it being permitted
in law to a party on whom a grave wrong is attempted to resist the
wrong, even at the peril of the life of the assailiant. Wharton.

SELF-DEFENSIVE
Self`-de*fen"sive, a.

Defn: Defending, or tending to defend, one's own person, property, or
reputation.

SELF-DEGRADATION
Self`-deg`ra*da"tion, n.

Defn: The act of degrading one's self, or the state of being so
degraded.

SELF-DELATION
Self`-de*la"tion, n.

Defn: Accusation of one's self. [R.] Milman.

SELF-DELUSION
Self`-de*lu"sion, n.

Defn: The act of deluding one's self, or the state of being thus
deluded.

SELF-DENIAL
Self`-de*ni"al, n.

Defn: The denial of one's self; forbearing to gratify one's own
desires; self-sacrifice.

SELF-DENYING
Self`-de*ny"ing, a.

Defn: Refusing to gratify one's self; self-sacrificing.
 -- Self`-de*ny"ing*ly, adv.

SELF-DEPENDENT
Self`-de*pend"ent, a.

Defn: Dependent on one's self; self-depending; self-reliant.

SELF-DEPENDING
Self`-de*pend"ing, a.

Defn: Depending on one's self.

SELF-DEPRAVED
Self`-de*praved", a.

Defn: Corrupted or depraved by one's self. Milton.

SELF-DESTROYER
Self`-de*stroy"er, n.

Defn: One who destroys himself; a suicide.

SELF-DESTRUCTION
Self`-de*struc"tion, n.

Defn: The destruction of one's self; self-murder; suicide. Milton.

SELF-DESTRUCTIVE
Self`-de*struc"tive, a.

Defn: Destroying, or tending to destroy, one's self or itself;
rucidal.

SELF-DETERMINATION
Self`-de*ter`mi*na"tion, n.

Defn: Determination by one's self; or, determination of one's acts or
states without the necessitating force of motives; -- applied to the
voluntary or activity.

SELF-DETERMINING
Self`-de*ter"min*ing, a.

Defn: Capable of self-determination; as, the self-determining power
of will.

SELF-DEVISED
Self`-de*vised", a.

Defn: Devised by one's self.

SELF-DEVOTED
Self`-de*vot"ed, a.

Defn: Devoted in person, or by one's own will. Hawthorne.

SELF-DEVOTEMENT
Self`-de*vote"ment, n.

Defn: Self-devotion. [R.]

SELF-DEVOTION
Self`-de*vo"tion, n.

Defn: The act of devoting one's self, or the state of being self-
devoted; willingness to sacrifice one's own advantage or happiness
for the sake of others; self-sacrifice.

SELF-DEVOURING
Self`-de*vour"ing, a.

Defn: Devouring one's self or itself. Danham.

SELF-DIFFUSIVE
Self`-dif*fu"sive, a.

Defn: Having power to diffuse itself; diffusing itself. Norris.

SELF-DISCIPLINE
Self`-dis"ci*pline, n.

Defn: Correction or government of one's self for the sake of
improvement.

SELF-DISTRUST
Self`-dis*trust", n.

Defn: Want of confidence in one' self; diffidence.

SELF-EDUCATED
Self`-ed"u*ca`ted, a.

Defn: Educated by one's own efforts, without instruction, or without
pecuniary assistance from others.

SELF-ELECTIVE
Self`-e*lect"ive, a.

Defn: Having the right of electing one's self, or, as a body, of
electing its own members.

SELF-ENJOYMENT
Self`-en*joy"ment, n.

Defn: Enjoyment of one's self; self-satisfaction.

SELF-ESTEEM
Self`-es*teem", n.

Defn: The holding a good opinion of one's self; self-complacency.

SELF-ESTIMATION
Self`-es`ti*ma"tion, n.

Defn: The act of estimating one's self; self-esteem.

SELF-EVIDENCE
Self`-ev"i*dence, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-evident. Locke.

SELF-EVIDENT
Self`-ev"i*dent, a.

Defn: Evident without proof or reasoning; producing certainty or
conviction upon a bare presentation to the mind; as, a self-evident
proposition or truth.
 -- Self`-ev"i*dent*ly, adv.

SELF-EVOLUTION
Self`-ev`o*lu"tion, n.

Defn: Evolution of one's self; development by inherent quality or
power.

SELF-EXALTATION
Self`-ex`al*ta"tion, n.

Defn: The act of exalting one's self, or the state of being so
exalted.

SELF-EXAMINANT
Self`-ex*am"i*nant, n.

Defn: One who examines himself; one given to self-examination.
The humiliated self-examinant feels that there is evil in our nature
as well as good. Coleridge.

SELF-EXAMINATION
Self`-ex*am`i*na"tion, n.

Defn: An examination into one's own state, conduct, and motives,
particularly in regard to religious feelings and duties.

SELF-EXCITE
Self`-ex*cite", v. t. (Elec.)

Defn: To energize or excite (the field magnets of a dynamo) by
induction from the residual magnetism of its cores, leading all or a
part of the current thus produced through the field-magnet coils.

SELF-EXISTENCE
Self`-ex*ist"ence, n.

Defn: Inherent existence; existence possessed by virtue of a being's
own nature, and independent of any other being or cause; -- an
attribute peculiar to God. Blackmore.

SELF-EXISTENT
Self`-ex*ist"ent, a.

Defn: Existing of or by himself,independent of any other being or
cause; -- as, God is the only self-existent being.

SELF-EXPLAINING
self`-ex*plain"ing, a.

Defn: Explaining itself; capable of being understood without
explanation.

SELF-EXPOSURE
Self`-ex*po"sure, n.

Defn: The act of exposing one's self; the state of being so exposed.

SELF-FERTILIZATION
Self`-fer`ti*li*za"tion, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The fertilization of a flower by pollen from the same flower
and without outer aid; autogamy.

SELF-FERTILIZED
Self`-fer"ti*lized, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Fertilized by pollen from the same flower.

SELF-GLORIOUS
Self`-glo"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Springing from vainglory or vanity; vain; boastful. Dryden.

SELF-GOVERNMENT
Self`-gov"ern*ment, n.

1. The act of governing one's self, or the state of being governed by
one's self; self-control; self-command.

2. Hence, government of a community, state, or nation by the joint
action of the mass of people constituting such a civil body; also,
the state of being so governed; democratic government; democracy.
It is to self-government, the great principle of popular
representation and administration, -- the system that lets in all to
participate in the councels that are to assign the good or evil to
all, -- that we may owe what we are and what we hope to be. D.
Webster.

SELF-GRATULATION
Self`-grat`u*la"tion, n.

Defn: Gratulation of one's self.

SELF-HARDENING
Self`-hard"en*ing, a. (Metal.)

Defn: Designating, or pert. to, any of various steels that harden
when heated to above a red heat and cooled in air, usually in a blast
of cold air with moderate rapidity, without quenching. Such steels
are alloys of iron and carbon with manganese, tungsten and manganese,
chromium, molybdenum and manganese, etc. They are chiefly used as
high-speed steels. -- Self`-hard"en*ed, a.

SELF-HEAL
Self`-heal", n. (Bot.)

Defn: A blue-flowered labiate plant (Brunella vulgaris); the healall.

SELF-HEALING
Self`-heal"ing, a.

Defn: Having the power or property of healing itself.

SELF-HELP
Self`-help", n.

Defn: The act of aiding one's self, without depending on the aid of
others.

SELF-HOMICIDE
Self`-hom"i*cide, n.

Defn: The act of killing one's self; suicide. Hakewill.

SELFHOOD
Self"hood, n.

Defn: Existence as a separate self, or independent person; conscious
personality; individuality. Bib. Sacra.

SELF-IGNORANCE
Self`-ig"no*rance, n.

Defn: Ignorance of one's own character, powers, and limitations.

SELF-IGNORANT
Self`-ig"no*rant, a.

Defn: Ignorant of one's self.

SELF-IMPARTING
Self`-im*part"ing, a.

Defn: Imparting by one's own, or by its own, powers and will. Norris.

SELF-IMPORTANCE
Self`-im*por"tance, n.

Defn: An exaggerated estimate of one's own importance or merit, esp.
as manifested by the conduct or manners; self-conceit.

SELF-IMPORTANT
Self`-im*por"tant, a.

Defn: Having or manifesting an exaggerated idea of one's own
importance or merit.

SELF-IMPOSED
Self`-im*posed", a.

Defn: Voluntarily taken on one's self; as, self-imposed tasks.

SELF-IMPOSTURE
Self`-im*pos"ture, n.

Defn: Imposture practiced on one's self; self-deceit. South.

SELF-INDIGNATION
Self`-in`dig*na"tion, n.

Defn: Indignation at one's own character or actions. Baxter.

SELF-INDUCTION
Self`-in*duc"tion, n. (Elec.)

Defn: Induction in a circuit due to the action of one portion of a
current upon an adjacent portion during periods of varying current
strength. The nature of the induction is such as to oppose the action
which produces it.

SELF-INDULGENCE
Self`-in*dul"gence, n.

Defn: Indulgence of one's appetites, desires, or inclinations; -- the
opposite of self-restraint, and self-denial.

SELF-INDULGENT
Self`-in*dul"gent, a.

Defn: Indulging one's appetites, desires, etc., freely.

SELF-INTEREST
Self`-in"ter*est, n.

Defn: Private interest; the interest or advantage of one's self.

SELF-INTERESTED
Self`-in"ter*est*ed, a.

Defn: Particularly concerned for one's own interest or happiness.

SELF-INVOLUTION
Self`-in`vo*lu"tion, n.

Defn: Involution in one's self; hence, abstraction of thought;
reverie.

SELFISH
Self"ish, a.

1. Caring supremely or unduly for one's self; regarding one's own
comfort, advantage, etc., in disregard, or at the expense, of those
of others.
They judge of things according to their own private appetites and
selfish passions. Cudworth.
In that throng of selfish hearts untrue. Keble.

2. (Ethics)

Defn: Believing or teaching that the chief motives of human action
are derived from love of self.
Hobbes and the selfish school of philosophers. Fleming.

SELFISHLY
Self"ish*ly, adv.

Defn: In a selfish manner; with regard to private interest only or
chiefly.

SELFISHNESS
Self"ish*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being selfish; exclusive regard to
one's own interest or happiness; that supreme self-love or self-
preference which leads a person to direct his purposes to the
advancement of his own interest, power, or happiness, without
regarding those of others.
Selfishness,- a vice utterly at variance with the happiness of him
who harbors it, and, as such, condemned by self-love. Sir J.
Mackintosh.

Syn.
 -- See Self-love.

SELFISM
Self"ism, n.

Defn: Concentration of one's interests on one's self; self-love;
selfishness. Emerson.

SELFIST
Self"ist, n.

Defn: A selfish person. [R.] I. Taylor.

SELF-JUSTIFIER
Self`-jus"ti*fi`er, n.

Defn: One who excuses or justifies himself. J. M. Mason.

SELF-KINDLED
Self`-kin"dled, a.

Defn: Kindled of itself, or without extraneous aid or power. Dryden.

SELF-KNOWING
Self`-know"ing, a.

1. Knowing one's self, or one's own character, powers, and
limitations.

2. Knowing of itself, without help from another.

SELF-KNOWLEDGE
Self`-knowl"edge, n.

Defn: Knowledge of one's self, or of one's own character, powers,
limitations, etc.

SELFLESS
Self"less, a.

Defn: Having no regard to self; unselfish.
Lo now, what hearts have men! they never mount As high as woman in
her selfless mood. Tennyson.

SELFLESSNESS
Self"less*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being selfless.

SELF-LIFE
Self"-life`, n.

Defn: Life for one's self; living solely or chiefly for one's own
pleasure or good.

SELF-LOVE
Self`-love`, n.

Defn: The love of one's self; desire of personal happiness; tendency
to seek one's own benefit or advantage. Shak.
Self-love, the spring of motion, acts the soul. Pope.

Syn.
 -- Selfishness.
 -- Self-love, Selfishness. The term self-love is used in a twofold
sense: 1. It denotes that longing for good or for well-being which
actuates the breasts of all, entering into and characterizing every
special desire. In this sense it has no moral quality, being, from
the nature of the case, neither good nor evil. 2. It is applied to a
voluntary regard for the gratification of special desires. In this
sense it is morally good or bad according as these desires are
conformed to duty or opposed to it. Selfishness is always voluntary
and always wrong, being that regard to our own interests,
gratification, etc., which is sought or indulged at the expense, and
to the injury, of others. "So long as self-love does not degenerate
into selfishness, it is quite compatible with true benevolence."
Fleming. "Not only is the phrase self-love used as synonymous with
the desire of happiness, but it is often confounded with the word
selfishness, which certainly, in strict propriety, denotes a very
different disposition of mind." Slewart.

SELF-LUMINOUS
Self`-lu"mi*nous, a.

Defn: Possessing in itself the property of emitting light. Sir D.
Brewster.

SELF-MADE
Self"-made`, a.

Defn: Made by one's self. Self-made man, a man who has risen from
poverty or obscurity by means of his own talentss or energies.

SELF-METTLE
Self"-met`tle, n

Defn: Inborn mettle or courage; one's own temper. [Obs.] Shak.

SELF-MOTION
Self`-mo"tion, n.

Defn: Motion given by inherent power, without external impulse;
spontaneus or voluntary motion.
Matter is not induced with self-motion. Cheyne.

SELF-MOVED
Self`-moved", a.

Defn: Moved by inherent power., without the aid of external impulse.

SELF-MOVING
Self`-mov"ing, a.

Defn: Moving by inherent power, without the aid of external impulse.

SELF-MURDER
Self`-mur"der, a.

Defn: Suicide.

SELF-MURDERER
Self`-mur"der*er, n.

Defn: A suicide.

SELF-NEGLECTING
Self`-neg*lect"ing, n.

Defn: A neglecting of one's self, or of one's own interests.
Self-love, my liege, is not so vile a sin As self-neglecting. Shak.

SELFNESS
Self"ness, n.

Defn: Selfishness. [Obs.] Sir. P. Sidney.

SELF-ONE
Self`-one", a.

Defn: Secret. [Obs.] Marston.

SELF-OPINION
Self`-o*pin"ion, n.

Defn: Opinion, especially high opinion, of one's self; an overweening
estimate of one's self or of one's own opinion. Collier.

SELF-OPINIONED
Self`-o*pin"ioned, a.

Defn: Having a high opinion of one's self; opinionated; conceited.
South.

SELF-ORIGINATING
Self`-o*rig"i*na`ting, a.

Defn: Beginning wwith, or springing from, one's self.

SELF-PARTIALITY
Self`-par`ti*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: That partiality to himself by which a man overrates his own
worth when compared with others. Kames.

SELF-PERPLEXED
Self`-per*plexed", a.

Defn: Perplexed by doubts originating in one's own mind.

SELF-POSITED
Self`-pos"it*ed, a.

Defn: Disposed or arranged by an action originating in one's self or
in itself.
These molecular blocks of salt are self-posited. Tyndall.

SELF-POSITING
Self`-pos"it*ing, a.

Defn: The act of disposing or arranging one's self or itself.
The self-positing of the molecules. R. Watts.

SELF-POSSESSED
Self"-pos*sessed", a.

Defn: Composed or tranquill in mind, manner, etc.; undisturbed.

SELF-POSSESSION
Self`-pos*ses"sion, n.

Defn: The possession of one's powers; calmness; self-command;
presence of mind; composure.

SELF-PRAISE
Self"-praise`, n.

Defn: Praise of one's self.

SELF-PRESERVATION
Self`-pres`er*va"tion, n.

Defn: The preservation of one's self from destruction or injury.

SELF-PROPAGATING
Self`-prop"a*ga`ting, a.

Defn: Propagating by one's self or by itself.

SELF-REGISTERING
Self`-reg"is*ter*ing, a.

Defn: Registering itself; -- said of any instrument so contrived as
to record its own indications of phenomena, whether continuously or
at stated times, as at the maxima and minima of variations; as, a
self-registering anemometer or barometer.

SELF-REGULATED
Self`-reg"u*la`ted, a.

Defn: Regulated by one's self or by itself.

SELF-REGULATIVE
Self`-reg"u*la*tive, a.

Defn: Tending or serving to regulate one's self or itself. Whewell.

SELF-RELIANCE
Self`-re*li"ance, n.

Defn: Reliance on one's own powers or judgment; self-trust.

SELF-RELIANT
Self`-re*li"ant, a.

Defn: Reliant upon one's self; trusting to one's own powers or
judgment.

SELF-RENUNCIATION
Self`-re*nun`ci*a"tion, n.

Defn: The act of renouncing, or setting aside, one's own wishes,
claims, etc.; self-sacrifice.

SELF-REPELLENCY
Self`-re*pel"len*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-repelling.

SELF-REPELLING
Self`-re*pel"ling, ( a.

Defn: Made up of parts, as molecules or atoms, which mutually repel
each other; as, gases are self-repelling.

SELF-REPETITION
Self`-rep`e*ti"tion, n.

Defn: Repetition of one's self or of one's acts; the saying or doing
what one has already said or done.

SELF-REPROACH
Self`-re*proach", n.

Defn: The act of reproaching one's self; censure by one's own
conscience.

SELF-REPROACHED
Self`-re*proached", a.

Defn: Reproached by one's own conscience or judgment.

SELF-REPROACHING
Self`-re*proach"ing, a.

Defn: Reproaching one's self.
 -- Self`-re*proach"ing*ly, adv.

SELF-REPROOF
Self`-re*proof", n.

Defn: The act of reproving one's self; censure of one's conduct by
one's own judgment.

SELF-REPROVED
Self`-re*proved", a.

Defn: Reproved by one's own conscience or one's own sense of guilt.

SELF-REPROVING
Self`-re*prov"ing, a.

Defn: Reproving one's self; reproving by consciousness of guilt.

SELF-REPROVINGLY
Self`-re*prov"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a self-reproving way.

SELF-REPUGNANT
Self`-re*pug"nant, a.

Defn: Self-contradictory; inconsistent. Brougham.

SELF-REPULSIVE
Self`-re*pul"sive, a.

Defn: Self-repelling.

SELF-RESPECT
Self`-re*spect", n.

Defn: Respect for one's self; regard for one's character; laudable
self-esteem.

SELF-RESTRAINED
Self`-re*strained", a.

Defn: Restrained by one's self or itself; restrained by one's own
power or will.

SELF-RESTRAINT
Self`-re*straint", n.

Defn: Restraint over one's self; self-control; self-command.

SELF-REVERENCE
Self`-rev"er*ence, n.

Defn: A reverent respect for one's self. Tennyson.

SELF-RIGHTEOUS
Self`-right"eous, a.

Defn: Righteous in one's own esteem; pharisaic.

SELF-RIGHTEOUSNESS
Self`-right"eous*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-righteous; pharisaism.

SELF-SACRIFICE
Self`-sac"ri*fice, n.

Defn: The act of sacrificing one's self, or one's interest, for
others; self-devotion.

SELF-SACRIFICING
Self`-sac"ri*fi`cing, a.

Defn: Yielding up one's own interest, ffeelings, etc; sacrificing
one's self.

SELFSAME
Self"same, a. Etym: [Self, a. + same.]

Defn: Precisely the same; the very same; identical.
His servant was healed in the selfsame hour. Matt. viii. 13.

SELF-SATISFACTION
Self`-sat`is*fac"tion, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-satisfied.

SELF-SATISFIED
Self`-sat"is*fied, a.

Defn: Satisfied with one's self or one's actions; self-complacent.

SELF-SATISFYING
Self`-sat"is*fy`ing, a.

Defn: Giving satisfaction to one's self.

SELF-SEEKER
Self"-seek`er, n.

Defn: One who seeks only his own interest, advantage, or pleasure.

SELF-SEEKING
Self"-seek`ing, a.

Defn: Seeking one's own interest or happiness; selfish. Arbuthnot.

SELF-SEEKING
Self"-seek`ing, n.

Defn: The act or habit of seeking one's own interest or happiness;
selfishness.

SELF-SLAUGHTER
Self`-slaugh"ter, n.

Defn: Suicide. Shak.

SELF-STARTER
Self`-start"er, n.

Defn: A mechanism (usually one operated by electricity, compressed
air, a spring, or an explosive gas), attached to an internal-
combustion engine, as on an automobile, and used as a means of
starting the engine without cranking it by hand.

SELF-SUFFICIENCY
Self`-suf*fi"cien*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being self-sufficient.

SELF-SUFFICIENT
Self`-suf*fi"cient, a.

1. Sufficient for one's self without external aid or cooperation.
Neglect of friends can never be proved rational till we prove the
person using it omnipotent and self-sufficient, and such as can never
need any mortal assistance. South.

2. Having an overweening confidence in one's own abilities or worth;
hence, haughty; overbearing. "A rash and self-sufficient manner." I.
Watts.

SELF-SUFFICING
Self`-suf*fi"cing, a.

Defn: Sufficing for one's self or for itself, without needing
external aid; self-sufficient.
 -- Self`-suf*fi"cing*ness, n. J. C. Shairp.

SELF-SUSPENDED
Self`-sus*pend"ed, a.

Defn: Suspended by one's self or by itself; balanced. Southey.

SELF-SUSPICIOUS
Self`-sus*pi"cious, a.

Defn: Suspicious or distrustful of one's self. Baxter.

SELF-TAUGHT
Self"-taught`, a.

Defn: Taught by one's own efforts.

SELF-TORMENTOR
Self`-tor*ment"or, n.

Defn: One who torments himself.

SELF-TORTURE
Self`-tor"ture, n.

Defn: The act of inflicting pain on one's self; pain inflicted on
one's self.

SELF-TRUST
Self"-trust`, n.

Defn: Faith in one's self; self-reliance.

SELF-UNED
Self`-uned", a. Etym: [E. self + L. unus one.]

Defn: One with itself; separate from others. [Obs.] Sylvester.

SELF-VIEW
Self"-view`, n.

Defn: A view if one's self; specifically, carefulness or regard for
one's own interests

SELF-WILL
Self`-will", n. Etym: [AS. selfwill.]

Defn: One's own will, esp. when opposed to that of others; obstinacy.

SELF-WILLED
Self`-willed", a.

Defn: Governed by one's own will; not yielding to the wishes of
others; obstinate.

SELF-WILLEDNESS
Self`-willed"ness, n.

Defn: Obstinacy. Sir W. Scott.

SELF-WORSHIP
Self"-wor`ship, n.

Defn: The idolizing of one's self; immoderate self-conceit.

SELF-WRONG
Self"-wrong`, n.

Defn: Wrong done by a person himself. Shak.

SELION
Sel"ion, n. Etym: [OF. seillon a measure of land, F. sillon a ridge,
furrow, LL. selio a measure of land.]

Defn: A short piece of land in arable ridges and furrows, of
uncertain quantity; also, a ridge of land lying between two furrows.
[Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SELJUKIAN
Sel*juk"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Seljuk, a Tartar chief who embraced
Mohammedanism, and began the subjection of Western Asia to that faith
and rule; of or pertaining to the dynasty founded by him, or the
empire maintained by his descendants from the 10th to the 13th
century. J. H. Newman.

SELJUKIAN; SELJUCKIAN
Sel*juk"i*an, Sel*juck"i*an, n.

Defn: A member of the family of Seljuk; an adherent of that family,
or subject of its government; (pl.) the dynasty of Turkish sultans
sprung from Seljuk.

SELL
Sell, n.

Defn: Self. [Obs. or Scot.] B. Jonson.

SELL
Sell, n.

Defn: A sill. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SELL
Sell, n.

Defn: A cell; a house. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SELL
Sell, n. Etym: [F. selle, L. sella, akin to sedere to sit. See Sit.]

1. A saddle for a horse. [Obs.]
He left his lofty steed with golden self. Spenser.

2. A throne or lofty seat. [Obs.] Fairfax.

SELL
Sell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sold; p. pr. & vb. n. Selling.] Etym: [OE.
sellen, sillen, AS. sellan, syllan, to give, to deliver; akin to OS.
sellian, OFries. sella, OHG. sellen, Icel. selja to hand over, to
sell, Sw. salja to sell, Dan. s, Goth. saljan to offer a sacrifice;
all from a noun akin to E. sale. Cf. Sale.]

1. To transfer to another for an equivalent; to give up for a
valuable consideration; to dispose of in return for something,
especially for money.
If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the
poor. Matt. xix. 21.
I am changed; I'll go sell all my land. Shak.

Note: Sell is corellative to buy, as one party buys what the other
sells. It is distinguished usually from exchange or barter, in which
one commodity is given for another; whereas in selling the
consideration is usually money, or its representative in current
notes.

2. To make a matter of bargain and sale of; to accept a price or
reward for, as for a breach of duty, trust, or the like; to betray.
You would have sold your king to slaughter. Shak.

3. To impose upon; to trick; to deceive; to make a fool of; to cheat.
[Slang] Dickens. To sell one's life dearly, to cause much loss to
those who take one's life, as by killing a number of one's
assailants.
 -- To sell (anything) out, to dispose of it wholly or entirely; as,
he had sold out his corn, or his interest in a business.

SELL
Sell, v. i.

1. To practice selling commodities.
I will buy with you, sell with you; . . . but I will not eat with
you. Shak.

2. To be sold; as, corn sells at a good price. To sell out, to sell
one's whole stockk in trade or one's entire interest in a property or
a business.

SELL
Sell, n.

Defn: An imposition; a cheat; a hoax. [Colloq.]

SELLANDERS; SELLENDERS
Sel"lan*ders, Sel"len*ders, n. pl. (Far.)

Defn: See Sallenders.

SELLER
Sell"er, n.

Defn: One who sells. Chaucer.

SELTERS WATER
Sel"ters wa"ter.

Defn: A mineral water from Sellers, in the district of Nassan,
Germany, containing much free carbonic acid.

SELTZER WATER
Selt"zer wa"ter.

Defn: See Selters water.

SELTZO-GENE
Selt"zo-gene, n. Etym: [Seltzer water + the root of Gr.

Defn: A gazogene.

SELVAGE; SELVEDGE
Sel"vage, Sel"vedge, n. Etym: [Self + edge, i. e., its own proper
edge; cf. OD. selfegge.]

1. The edge of cloth which is woven in such a manner as to prevent
raveling.

2. The edge plate of a lock, through which the bolt passes. Knight.

3. (Mining.)

Defn: A layer of clay or decomposed rock along the wall of a vein.
See Gouge, n., 4. Raymond.

SELVAGED; SELVEDGED
Sel"vaged, Sel"vedged, a.

Defn: Having a selvage.

SELVAGEE
Sel`va*gee", n. (Naut.)

Defn: A skein or hank of rope yarns wound round with yarns or
marline, -- used for stoppers, straps, etc.

SELVE
Selve, a.

Defn: Self; same. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SELVES
Selves, n.,

Defn: pl. of Self.

SELY
Se"ly, a.

Defn: Silly. [Obs.] Chaucer. Wyclif.

SEMAEOSTOMATA
Se*m?`o*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A division of Discophora having large free mouth lobes. It
includes Aurelia, and Pelagia. Called also Semeostoma. See Illustr.
under Discophora, and Medusa.

SEMAPHORE
Sem"a*phore, n. Etym: [Gr. semaphore.]

Defn: A signal telegraph; an apparatus for giving signals by the
disposition of lanterns, flags, oscillating arms, etc.

SEMAPHORIC; SEMAPHORICAL
Sem`a*phor"ic, Sem`a*phor"ic*al a. Etym: [Cf. F. semaphorique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a semaphore, or semaphores; telegraphic.

SEMAPHORICALLY
Sem`a*phor"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: By means a semaphore.

SEMAPHORIST
Se*maph"o*rist, n.

Defn: One who manages or operates a semaphore.

SEMASIOLOGY
Se*ma`si*ol"o*gy, n. [Gr.  signification + -logy.] (Philol.)

Defn: The science of meanings or sense development (of words); the
explanation of the development and changes of the meanings of words.
--Se*ma`si*o*log"ic*al (#), a.

SEMATIC
Se*mat"ic, a. [Gr. , , sign, token.]

Defn: Significant; ominous; serving as a warning of danger; --applied
esp. to the warning colors or forms of certain animals.

SEMATOLOGY
Sem`a*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: The doctrine of signs as the expression of thought or
reasoning; the science of indicating thought by signs. Smart.

SEMATROPE
Sem"a*trope, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: An instrument for signaling by reflecting the rays of the sun
in different directions. Knight.

SEMBLABLE
Sem"bla*ble, a. Etym: [F., from sembler to seem, resemble, L.
similare, simulare. See Simulate.]

Defn: Like; similar; resembling. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEMBLABLE
Sem"bla*ble, n.

Defn: Likeness; representation. [Obs.]

SEMBLABLY
Sem"bla*bly, adv.

Defn: In like manner. [Obs.] Shak.

SEMBLANCE
Sem"blance, n. Etym: [F. See Semblable, a.]

1. Seeming; appearance; show; figure; form.
Thier semblance kind, and mild their gestures were. Fairfax.

2. Likeness; resemblance, actual or apparent; similitude; as, the
semblance of worth; semblance of virtue.
Only semblances or imitations of shells. Woodward.

SEMBLANT
Sem"blant, a. Etym: [F. semblant, p. pr.]

1. Like; resembling. [Obs.] Prior.

2. Seeming, rather than real; apparent. [R.] Carlyle.

SEMBLANT
Sem"blant, n. Etym: [F.]

1. Show; appearance; figure; semblance. [Obs.] Spenser.
His flatterers made semblant of weeping. Chaucer.

2. The face. [Obs.] Wyclif (Luke xxiv. 5).

SEMBLATIVE
Sem"bla*tive, a.

Defn: Resembling. [Obs.]
And all is semblative a woman's part. Shak.

SEMBLE
Sem"ble, v. i. Etym: [F. sembler. See Semblable, a.]

1. To imitate; to make a representation or likeness. [Obs.]
Where sembling art may carve the fair effect. Prior.

2. (Law)

Defn: It seems; -- chiefly used impersonally in reports and judgments
to express an opinion in reference to the law on some point not
necessary to be decided, and not intended to be definitely settled in
the cause.

SEMBLE
Sem"ble, a.

Defn: Like; resembling. [Obs.] T. Hudson.

SEMBLING
Sem"bling, n. Etym: [Cf. Assemble.] (Zool.)

Defn: The practice of attracting the males of Lepidoptera or other
insects by exposing the female confined in a cage.

Note: It is often adopted by collectors in order to procure specimens
of rare species.

SEME
Se*me", a. Etym: [F. seme, fr. semer to sow.] (Her.)

Defn: Sprinkled or sown; -- said of field, or a charge, when strewed
or covered with small charges.

SEMEIOGRAPHY; SEMIOGRAPHY
Se`mei*og"ra*phy, or; Se`mi*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. shmei^on sign +
-graphy.] (Med.)

Defn: A description of the signs of disease.

SEMEIOLOGICAL; SEMIOLOGIOAL
Se`mei*o*log"ic*al, or; Se`mi*o*log"io*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the science of signs, or the systematic use
of signs; as, a semeiological classification of the signs or symptoms
of disease; a semeiological arrangement of signs used as signals.

SEMEIOLOGY; SEMIOLOGY
Se`mei*ol"o*gy, or Se`mi*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. shmei^on a mark, a
sign + -logy.]

Defn: The science or art of signs. Specifically:
(a) (Med.) The science of the signs or symptoms of disease;
symptomatology.
(b) The art of using signs in signaling.

SEMEIOTIC; SEMIOTIC
Se`mei*ot"ic, or Se`mi*ot"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. shmei^on a mark, a sign.]

1. Relating to signs or indications; pertaining to the language of
signs, or to language generally as indicating thought.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the signs or symptoms of diseases.

SEMEIOTICS; SEMIOTICS
Se`mei*ot"ics, or Se`mi*ot"ics, n.

Defn: Semeiology.

SEMELE
Sem"e*le, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Gr. Myth.)

Defn: A daughter of Cadmus, and by Zeus mother of Bacchus.

SEMEN
Se"men, n.; pl. Semina. Etym: [L., from the root of serere, satum, to
sow. See Sow to scatter seed.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: The seed of plants.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: The seed or fecundating fluid of male animals; sperm. It is a
white or whitish viscid fluid secreted by the testes, characterized
by the presence of spermatozoids to which it owes its generative
power. Semen contra, or Semen cin? or cyn?, a strong aromatic, bitter
drug, imported from Aleppo and Barbary, said to consist of the
leaves, peduncles, and unexpanded flowers of various species of
Artemisia; wormseed.

SEMENIFEROUS
Sem`e*nif"er*ous, a. (Biol.)

Defn: Seminiferous.

SEMESTER
Se*mes"ter, n. Etym: [G., from L. semestris half-yearly; sex six +
mensis a month.]

Defn: A period of six months; especially, a term in a college or
uneversity which divides the year into two terms.

SEMI-
Sem"i-. Etym: [L. semi; akin to Gr. sami-, AS. sam-, and prob. to E.
same, from the division into two parts of the same size. Cf. Hemi-,
Sandelend.]

Defn: A prefix signifying half, and sometimes partly or imperfectly;
as, semiannual, half yearly; semitransparent, imperfectly
transparent.

Note: The prefix semi is joined to another word either with the
hyphen or without it. In this book the hyphen is omitted except
before a capital letter; as, semiacid, semiaquatic, semi-Arian,
semiaxis, semicalcareous.

SEMIACID
Sem`i*ac"id, a.

Defn: Slightly acid; subacid.

SEMIACIDIFIED
Sem`i*a*cid"i*fied, a.

Defn: Half acidified.

SEMIADHERENT
Sem`i*ad*her"ent, a.

Defn: Adherent part way.

SEMIAMPLEXICAUL
Sem`i*am*plex"i*caul, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Partially amplexicaul; embracing the stem half round, as a
leaf.

SEMIANGLE
Sem"i*an`gle, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The half of a given, or measuring, angle.

SEMIANNUAL
Sem`i*an"nu*al, a.

Defn: Half-yearly.

SEMIANNUALLY
Sem`i*an"nu*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Every half year.

SEMIANNULAR
Sem`i*an"nu*lar, a.

Defn: Having the figure of a half circle; forming a semicircle. Grew.

SEMI-ARIAN
Sem`i-A"ri*an, n. Etym: [See Arian.] (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A member of a branch of the Arians which did not acknowledge
the Son to be consubstantial with the Father, that is, of the same
substance, but admitted him to be of a like substance with the
Father, not by nature, but by a peculiar privilege.

SEMI-ARIAN
Sem"i-A"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Semi-Arianism.

SEMI-ARIANISM
Sem`i-A"ri*an*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Arians.

SEMIAXIS
Sem`i*ax"is, n. (Geom.)

Defn: One half of the axis of an

SEMIBARBARIAN
Sem`i*bar*ba"ri*an, a.

Defn: Half barbarous; partially civilized.
 -- n.

Defn: One partly civilized.

SEMIBARBARIC
Sem`i*bar*bar"ic, a.

Defn: Half barbarous or uncivilized; as, semibarbaric display.

SEMIBARBARISM
Sem`i*bar"ba*rism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being half barbarous or uncivilized.

SEMIBARBAROUS
Sem`i*bar"ba*rous, a.

Defn: Half barbarous.

SEMIBREVE
Sem"i*breve`, n. Etym: [Pref. semi- + breve: cf. F. semi-breve, It.
semibreve.] [Formerly written semibref.] (Mus.)

Defn: A note of half the time or duration of the breve; -- now
usually called a whole note. It is the longest note in general use.

SEMIBRIEF
Sem"i*brief`, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A semibreve. [R.]

SEMIBULL
Sem"i*bull`, n. (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: A bull issued by a pope in the period between his election and
coronation.

SEMICALCAREOUS
Sem`i*cal*ca"re*ous, a.

Defn: Half or partially calcareous; as, a semicalcareous plant.

SEMICALCINED
Sem`i*cal*cined", a.

Defn: Half calcined; as, semicalcined iron.

SEMICASTRATE
Sem`i*cas"trate, v. t.

Defn: To deprive of one testicle.
 -- Sem`i*cas*tra"tion,n.

SEMICENTENNIAL
Sem`i*cen*ten"ni*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to half of a century, or a period of fifty
years; as, a semicentennial commemoration.

SEMICENTENNIAL
Sem`i*cen*ten"ni*al, n.

Defn: A fiftieth anniversary.

SEMICHAOTIC
Sem`i*cha*ot"ic, a.

Defn: Partially chaotic.

SEMICHORUS
Sem"i*cho`rus, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A half chorus; a passage to be sung by a selected portion of
the voices, as the female voices only, in contrast with the full
choir.

SEMI-CHRISTIANIZED
Sem`i-Chris"tian*ized, a.

Defn: Half Christianized.

SEMICIRCLE
Sem"i*cir`cle, n.

1.
(a) The half of a circle; the part of a circle bounded by its
diameter and half of its circumference.
(b) A semicircumference.

2. A body in the form of half of a circle, or half of a
circumference.

3. An instrument for measuring angles.

SEMICIRCLED
Sem"i*cir`cled, a.

Defn: Semicircular. Shak.

SEMICIRCULAR
Sem`i*cir"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Having the form of half of a circle. Addison. Semicircular
canals (Anat.), certain canals of the inner ear. See under Ear.

SEMI CIRCUMFERENCE
Sem`i cir*cum"fer*ence, n.

Defn: Half of a circumference.

SEMICIRQUE
Sem"i*cirque, n.

Defn: A semicircular hollow or opening among trees or hills.
Wordsworth.

SEMICOLON
Sem"i*co`lon, n.

Defn: The punctuation mark [;] indicating a separation between parts
or members of a sentence more distinct than that marked by a comma.

SEMICOLUMN
Sem"i*col`umn, n.

Defn: A half column; a column bisected longitudinally, or along its
axis.

SEMICOLUMNAR
Sem`i*co*lum"nar, a.

Defn: Like a semicolumn; flat on one side and round on the other;
imperfectly columnar.

SEMICOMPACT
Sem`i*com*pact", a.

Defn: Half compact; imperfectly indurated.

SEMICONSCIOUS
Sem`i*con"scious, a.

Defn: Half conscious; imperfectly conscious. De Quincey.

SEMICOPE
Sem"i*cope`, n.

Defn: A short cope, or an inferier kind of cope. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEMI CRUSTACEOUS
Sem`i crus*ta"ceous, a.

Defn: Half crustaceous; partially crustaceous.

SEMICRYSTALLINE
Sem`i*crys"tal*line, a. (Min.)

Defn: Half crystalline; -- said of certain cruptive rocks composed
partly of crystalline, partly of amorphous matter.

SEMICUBICAL
Sem`i*cu"bic*al, a. (Math.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the square root of the cube of a quantity.
Semicubical parabola, a curve in which the ordinates are proportional
to the square roots of the cubes of the abscissas.

SEMICUBIUM; SEMICUPIUM
Sem`i*cu"bi*um, Sem`i*cu"pi*um, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. semi half +
cupa tub, cask.]

Defn: A half bath, or one that covers only the lewer extremities and
the hips; a sitz-bath; a half bath, or hip bath.

SEMICYLINDRIC; SEMICYLYNDRICAL
Sem`i*cy*lin"dric, Sem`i*cy*lyn"dric*al a.

Defn: Half cylindrical.

SEMIDEISTICAL
Sem`i*de*is"tic*al, a.

Defn: Half deisticsl; bordering on deism. S. Miller.

SEMIDEMIQUAVER
Sem`i*dem"i*qua`ver, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A demisemiquaver; a thirty-second note.

SEMIDETACHED
Sem`i*de*tached", a.

Defn: Half detached; partly distinct or separate. Semidetached house,
one of two tenements under a single roof, but separated by a party
wall. [Eng.]

SEMIDIAMETER
Sem`i*di*am"e*ter, n. (Math.)

Defn: Half of a diameter; a right line, or the length of a right
line, drawn from the center of a circle, a sphere, or other curved
figure, to its circumference or periphery; a radius.

SEMIDIAPASON
Sem`i*di`a*pa"son, n. (Mus.)

Defn: An imperfect octave.

SEMIDIAPENTE
Sem`i*di`a*pen"te, n. (Mus.)

Defn: An imperfect or diminished fifth. Busby.

SEMIDIAPHANEITY
Sem`i*di`a*pha*ne"i*ty, n.

Defn: Half or imperfect transparency; translucency. [R.] Boyle.

SEMIDIAPHANOUS
Sem`i*di*aph"a*nous, a.

Defn: Half or imperfectly transparent; translucent. Woodward.

SEMIDIATESSARON
Sem`i*di`a*tes"sa*ron, n. (Mus.)

Defn: An imperfect or diminished fourth. [R.]

SEMI-DIESEL
Sem`i-Die"sel, a.

Defn: Designating an internal-combustion engine of a type resembling
the Diesel engine in using as fuel heavy oil which is injected in a
spray just before the end of the compression stroke and is fired
without electrical ignition. The fuel is sprayed into an iron box
(called a hot bulb or hot pot) opening into the combustion chamber,
and heated for ignition by a blast-lamp until the engine is running,
when it is, ordinarily, kept red hot by the heat of combustion.

SEMIDITONE
Sem`i*di"tone`, n. Etym: [Pref. semi- + ditone: cf. It. semiditono.
Cf. Hemiditone.] (Gr. Mus.)

Defn: A lesser third, having its terms as 6 to 5; a hemiditone. [R.]

SEMIDIURNAL
Sem`i*di*ur"nal, a.

1. Pertaining to, or accomplished in, half a day, or twelve hours;
occurring twice every day.

2. Pertaining to, or traversed in, six hours, or in half the time
between the rising and setting of a heavenly body; as, a semidiurnal
arc.

SEMIDOME
Sem"i*dome`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A roof or ceiling covering a semicircular room or recess, or
one of nearly that shape, as the apse of a church, a niche, or the
like. It is approximately the quarter of a hollow sphere.

SEMIDOUBLE
Sem"i*dou`ble, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: An office or feast celebrated with less solemnity than the
double ones. See Double, n., 8.

SEMIDOUBLE
Sem`i*dou"ble, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having the outermost stamens converted into petals, while the
inner ones remain perfect; -- said of a flower.

SEMIFABLE
Sem"i*fa`ble, n.

Defn: That which is part fable and part truth; a mixture of truth and
fable. De Quincey.

SEMIFLEXED
Sem"i*flexed`, a.

Defn: Half bent.

SEMIFLORET
Sem"i*flo`ret, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Semifloscule.

SEMIFLOSCULAR
Sem`i*flos"cu*lar, a.

Defn: Semiflosculous.

SEMIFLOSCULE
Sem"i*flos`cule, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A floscule, or florest, with its corolla prolonged into a
strap-shaped petal; -- called also semifloret.

SEMIFLOSCULOUS
Sem`i*flos"cu*lous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having all the florets ligulate, as in the dandelion.

SEMIFLUID
Sem`i*flu"id, a.

Defn: Imperfectly fluid.
 -- n.

Defn: A semifluid substance.

SEMIFORM
Sem"i*form`, n.

Defn: A half form; an imperfect form.

SEMIFORMED
Sem"i*formed`, a.

Defn: Half formed; imperfectly formed; as, semiformed crystals.

SEMIGLUTIN
Sem`i*glu"tin, n. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A peptonelike body, insoluble in alcohol, formed by boiling
collagen or gelatin for a long time in water. Hemicollin, a like
body, is also formed at the same time, and differs from semiglutin by
being partly soluble in alcohol.

SEMIHISTORICAL
Sem`i*his*tor"i*cal, a.

Defn: Half or party historical. Sir G. C. Lewis.

SEMIHORAL
Sem`i*ho"ral, a.

Defn: Half-hourly.

SEMIINDURATED
Sem`i*in"du*ra`ted, a.

Defn: Imperfectly indurated or hardened.

SEMILAPIDIFIED
Sem`i*la*pid"i*fied, a.

Defn: Imperfectly changed into stone. Kirwan.

SEMILENS
Sem"i*lens`, n. (Opt.)

Defn: The half of a lens divided along a plane passing through its
axis.

SEMILENTICULAR
Sem`i*len*tic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Half lenticular or convex; imperfectly resembling a lens.
Kirwan.

SEMILIGNEOUS
Sem`i*lig"ne*ous, a.

Defn: Half or partially ligneous, as a stem partly woody and partly
herbaceous.

SEMILIQUID
Sem`i*liq"uid, a.

Defn: Half liquid; semifluid.

SEMILIQUIDITY
Sem`i*li*quid"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being semiliquid; partial liquidity.

SEMILOGICAL
Sem`i*log"ic*al, a.

Defn: Half logical; partly logical; said of fallacies. Whately.

SEMILOR
Sem"i*lor, n. Etym: [Cf. G. similor, semilor.]

Defn: A yellowish alloy of copper and zinc. See Simplor.

SEMILUNAR
Sem`i*lu"nar, a.

Defn: Shaped like a half moon. Semilunar bone (Anat.), a bone of the
carpus; the lunar. See Lunar, n.
 -- Semilunar, or Sigmoid, valves (Anat.), the valves at the
beginning of the aorta and of the pulmonary artery which prevent the
blood from flowing back into the ventricle.

SEMILUNAR
Sem`i*lu"nar, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The semilunar bone.

SEMILUNARY
Sem`i*lu"na*ry, a.

Defn: Semilunar.

SEMILUNATE
Sem`i*lu"nate, a.

Defn: Semilunar.

SEMILUNE
Sem"i*lune`, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The half of a lune.

SEMIMETAL
Sem"i*met`al, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An element possessing metallic properties in an inferior degree
and not malleable, as arsenic, antimony, bismuth, molybdenum,
uranium, etc. [Obs.]

SEMIMETALLIC
Sem`i*me*tal"lic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a semimetal; possessing metallic properties
in an inferior degree; resembling metal.

SEMIMONTHLY
Sem`i*month"ly a.

Defn: Coming or made twice in a month; as, semimonthly magazine; a
semimonthly payment.
 -- n.

Defn: Something done or made every half month; esp., a semimonthly
periodical.
 -- adv.

Defn: In a semimonthly manner; at intervals of half a month.

SEMIMUTE
Sem`i*mute", a.

Defn: Having the faculty of speech but imperfectly developed or
partially lost.

SEMIMUTE
Sem"i*mute`, n.

Defn: A semimute person.

SEMINAL
Sem"i*nal, a. Etym: [L. seminalis, fr. semen, seminis, seed, akin to
serere to sow: cf. F. seminal. See Sow to scatter seed.]

1. Pertaining to, containing, or consisting of, seed or semen; as,
the seminal fluid.

2. Contained in seed; holding the relation of seed, source, or first
principle; holding the first place in a series of developed results
or consequents; germinal; radical; primary; original; as, seminal
principles of generation; seminal virtue.
The idea of God is, beyond all question or comparison, the one great
seminal principle. Hare.
Seminal leaf (Bot.), a seed leaf, or cotyleden.
 -- Seminal receptacle. (Zool.) Same as Spermatheca.

SEMINAL
Sem"i*nal, n.

Defn: A seed. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SEMINALITY
Sem`i*nal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being seminal. Sir T. Browne.

SEMINAR
Sem`i*nar", n. [G. See Seminary, n.]

Defn: A group of students engaged, under the guidance of an
instructor, in original research in a particular line of study, and
in the exposition of the results by theses, lectures, etc.; -- called
also seminary.

SEMINARIAN; SEMINARIST
Sem`i*na"ri*an, Sem"i*na*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. seminariste.]

Defn: A member of, or one educated in, a seminary; specifically, an
ecclesiastic educated for the priesthood in a seminary.

SEMINARY
Sem"i*na*ry, n.; pl. Seminaries. Etym: [L. seminarium, fr. seminarius
belonging to seed, fr. semon, seminis, seed. See Seminal.]

1. A piece of ground where seed is sown for producing plants for
transplantation; a nursery; a seed plat. [Obs.] Mortimer.
But if you draw them [seedling] only for the thinning of your
seminary, prick them into some empty beds. Evelyn.

2. Hence, the place or original stock whence anything is brought or
produced. [Obs.] Woodward.

3. A place of education, as a scool of a high grade, an academy,
college, or university.

4. Seminal state. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

5. Fig.: A seed bed; a source. [Obs.] Harvey.

6. A Roman Catholic priest educated in a foreign seminary; a
seminarist. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

SEMINARY
Sem"i*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. seminarius.]

Defn: Belonging to seed; seminal. [R.]

SEMINATE
Sem"i*nate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Seminated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Seminating.] Etym: [L. seminatus, p. p. of seminare to sow, fr.
semen, seminis, seed.]

Defn: To sow; to spread; to propagate. [R.] Waterhouse.

SEMINATION
Sem`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. seminatio: cf. F. semination.]

1. The act of sowing or spreading. [R.]

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Natural dispersion of seeds. Martyn.

SEMINED
Sem"ined, a. Etym: [See Semen.]

Defn: Thickly covered or sown, as with seeds. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SEMINIFEROUS
Sem`i*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. semen, semenis, seed -ferous.] (Biol.)

Defn: Seed-bearing; producing seed; pertaining to, or connected with,
the formation of semen; as, seminiferous cells or vesicles.

SEMINIFIC; SEMINIFICAL
Sem`i*nif"ic, Sem`i*nif"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. semen, seminis, seed +
facere to make.] (Biol.)

Defn: Forming or producing seed, or the male generative product of
animals or of plants.

SEMINIFICATION
Sem`i*ni*fi*ca"tion, n.

Defn: Propagation from seed. [R.] Sir M. Hale.

SEMINIST
Sem"i*nist, n. (Biol.)

Defn: A believer in the old theory that the newly created being is
formed by the admixture of the seed of the male with the supposed
seed of the female.

SEMINOLES
Sem"i*noles, n. pl.; sing. Seminole (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians who formerly occupied Florida, where some of
them still remain. They belonged to the Creek Confideration.

SEMINOSE
Sem"i*nose`, n. Etym: [L. semen seed + glucose.] (Chem.)

Defn: A carbohydrate of the glucose group found in the thickened
endosperm of certain seeds, and extracted as yellow sirup having a
sweetish-bitter taste.

SEMINUDE
Sem`i*nude", a.

Defn: Partially nude; half naked.

SEMINYMPH
Sem"i*nymph`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The pupa of insects which undergo only a slight change in
passing to the imago state.

SEMIOCCASIONALLY
Sem`i*oc*ca"sion*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Once in a while; on rare occasions. [Colloq. U. S.]

SEMIOFFICIAL
Sem`i*of*fi"cial, a.

Defn: Half official; having some official authority or importance;
as, a semiofficial statement.
 -- Sem`i*of*fi"cial*ly, adv.

SEMIOGRAPHY; SEMIOLOGY; SEMIOLOGICAL
Se`mi*og"ra*phy, Se`mi*ol"o*gy, Se`mi*o*log"ic*al.

Defn: Same as Semeiography, Semeiology, Semeiological.

SEMIOPACOUS
Sem`i*o*pa"cous, a.

Defn: Semiopaque.

SEMIOPAL
Sem"i*o`pal, n. (Min.)

Defn: A variety of opal not possessing opalescence.

SEMIOPAQUE
Sem`i*o*paque", a.

Defn: Half opaque; only half transparent.

SEMIORBICULAR
Sem`i*or*bic"u*lar, a.

Defn: Having the shape of a half orb or sphere.

SEMIOTIC
Se`mi*ot"ic, a.

Defn: Same as Semeiotic.

SEMIOTICS
Se`mi*ot"ics, n.

Defn: Same as Semeiotics.

SEMIOVAL
Sem`i*o"val, a.

Defn: Half oval.

SEMIOVATE
Sem`i*o"vate, a.

Defn: Half ovate.

SEMIOXYGENATED
Sem`i*ox"y*gen*a`ted, a.

Defn: Combined with oxygen only in part. Kirwan.

SEMIPAGAN
Sem`i*pa"gan, a.

Defn: Half pagan.

SEMIPALMATE; SEMIPALMATED
Sem`i*pal"mate, Sem`i*pal"ma*ted, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the anterior toes joined only part way down with a web;
half-webbed; as, a semipalmate bird or foot. See Illust. k under
Aves.

SEMIPARABOLA
Sem`i*pa*rab"o*la, n. (Geom.)

Defn: One branch of a parabola, being terminated at the principal
vertex of the curve.

SEMIPED
Sem"i*ped, n. Etym: [L. semipes, semipedis; pref. semi- half + pes,
pedis, a foot.] (Pros.)

Defn: A half foot in poetry.

SEMIPEDAL
Se*mip"e*dal, a. (Pres.)

Defn: Containing a half foot.

SEMI-PELAGIAN
Sem`i-Pe*la"gi*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of John Cassianus, a French monk (died about 448),
who modified the doctrines of Pelagius, by denying human merit, and
maintaining the necessity of the Spirit's influence, while, on the
other hand, he rejected the Augustinian doctrines of election, the
inability of man to do good, and the certain perseverance of the
saints.

SEMI-PELAGIAN
Sem`i-Pe*la"gi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Semi-Pelagians, or their tenets.

SEMI-PELAGIANISM
Sem`i-Pe*la"gi*an*ism, n.

Defn: The doctrines or tenets of the Semi-Pelagians.

SEMIPELLUCID
Sem`i*pel*lu"cid, a.

Defn: Half clear, or imperfectly transparent; as, a semipellucid gem.

SEMIPELLUCIDITY
Sem`i*pel`lu*cid"i*ty, n.

Defn: The qualiti or state of being imperfectly transparent.

SEMIPENNIFORM
Sem`i*pen"ni*form, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Half or partially penniform; as, a semipenniform muscle.

SEMIPERMANENT
Sem`i*per"ma*nent, n.

Defn: Half or partly permanent.

SEMIPERSPICUOUS
Sem`i*per*spic"u*ous, a.

Defn: Half transparent; imperfectly clear; semipellucid.

SEMIPHLOGISTICATED
Sem`i*phlo*gis"ti*ca`ted, a. (Old Chem.)

Defn: Partially impregnated with phlogiston.

SEMIPLUME
Sem"i*plume`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A feather which has a plumelike web, with the shaft of an
ordinary feather.

SEMIPRECIOUS
Sem`i*pre"cious, a.

Defn: Somewhat precious; as, semiprecious stones or metals.

SEMIPROOF
Sem"i*proof`, n.

Defn: Half proof; evidence from the testimony of a single witness.
[Obs.] Bailey.

SEMI PUPA
Sem`i pu"pa, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The young of an insect in a stage between the larva and pupa.

SEMIQUADRATE; SEMIQUARTILE
Sem"i*quad`rate, Sem"i*quar"tile, n. (Astrol.)

Defn: An aspect of the planets when distant from each other the half
of a quadrant, or forty-five degrees, or one sign and a half. Hutton.

SEMIQUAVER
Sem"i*qua`ver, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A note of half the duration of the quaver; -- now usually
called a sixsteenth note.

SEMIQUINTILE
Sem"i*quin`tile, n. (Astrol.)

Defn: An aspect of the planets when distant from each other half of
the quintile, or thirty-six degrees.

SEMIRADIAL
Sem`i*ra"di*al, a.

Defn: Half radial.

SEMIRADIAL ENGINE
Semiradial engine. (Mach.)

Defn: See Radial engine, above.

SEMIRECONDITE
Sem`i*rec"on*dite, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Half hidden or half covered; said of the head of an insect when
half covered by the shield of the thorax.

SEMIRING
Sem"i*ring`, n. (Anat.)

Defn: One of the incomplete rings of the upper part of the bronchial
tubes of most birds. The semerings form an essential part of the
syrinx, or musical organ, of singing birds.

SEMISAVAGE
Sem`i*sav"age, a.

Defn: Half savage.

SEMISAVAGE
Sem"i*sav`age, n.

Defn: One who is half savage.

SEMI-SAXON
Sem`i-Sax"on, a.

Defn: Half Saxon; -- specifically applied to the language
intermediate between Saxon and English, belonging to the period 1150-
1250.

SEMISEXTILE
Sem"i*sex"tile, n. (Astrol.)

Defn: An aspect of the planets when they are distant from each other
the twelfth part of a circle, or thirty degrees. Hutton.

SEMISOLID
Sem`i*sol"id, a.

Defn: Partially solid.

SEMISOUN
Sem"i*soun (-soon), n.

Defn: A half sound; a low tone. [Obs.] "Soft he cougheth with a
semisoun." Chaucer.

SEMISPHERIC; SEMISPHERICAL
Sem`i*spher"ic, Sem`i*spher"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having the figure of a half sphere. Kirwan.

SEMISPHEROIDAL
Sem`i*sphe*roid"al, a.

Defn: Formed like a half spheroid.

SEMISTEEL
Sem"i*steel` (, n.

Defn: Puddled steel. [U. S. ]

SEMITA
Sem"i*ta, n.; pl. Semit?. Etym: [L., a path.] (Zool.)

Defn: A fasciole of a spatangoid sea urchin.

SEMITANGENT
Sem"i*tan`gent, n. (Geom.)

Defn: The tangent of half an arc.

SEMITE
Sem"ite, n.

Defn: One belonging to the Semitic race. Also used adjectively.
[Written also Shemite.]

SEMITERETE
Sem`i*te*rete", a. (Nat. Hist.)

Defn: Half terete.

SEMITERTIAN
Sem`i*ter"tian, a. (Med.)

Defn: Having the characteristics of both a tertian and a quotidian
intermittent.
 -- n.

Defn: An intermittent combining the characteristics of a tertian and
a quotidian.

SEMITIC
Sem*it"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Shem or his descendants; belonging to that
division of the Caucasian race which includes the Arabs, Jews, and
related races. [Written also Shemitic.] Semitic language, a name used
to designate a group of Asiatic and African languages, some living
and some dead, namely: Hebrew and Phoenician, Aramaic, Assyrian,
Arabic, Ethiopic (Geez and Ampharic). Encyc. Brit.

SEMITISM
Sem"i*tism, n.

Defn: A Semitic idiom; a word of Semitic origin. [Written also
Shemitism.]

SEMITONE
Sem"i*tone, n. Etym: [Pref. semi- + tone. CF. Hemitone.] (Mus.)

Defn: Half a tone; -- the name commonly applied to the smaller
intervals of the diatonic scale.

Note: There is an impropriety in the use of this word, and half step
is now preferred. See Tone. J. S. Dwight.

SEMITONIC
Sem`i*ton"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a semitone; consisting of a semitone, or of
semitones.

SEMITONTINE
Sem`i*ton*tine", a. (LIfe Insurance)

Defn: Lit., half-tontine; -- used to designate a form of tontine life
insurance. See Tontine insurance. --Sem`i*ton*tine", n.

SEMITRANSEPT
Sem"i*tran`sept, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The half of a transept; as, the north semitransept of a church.

SEMITRANSLUCENT
Sem`i*trans*lu"cent, a.

Defn: Slightly clear; transmitting light in a slight degree.

SEMITRANSPARENCY
Sem`i*trans*par"en*cy, n.

Defn: Imperfect or partial transparency.

SEMITRANSPARENT
Sem`i*trans*par"ent, a.

Defn: Half or imperfectly transparent.

SEMIVERTICILLATE
Sem`i*ver*tic"il*late, ( a.

Defn: Partially verticillate.

SEMIVIF
Sem"i*vif, a. Etym: [L. semivivus.]

Defn: Only half alive. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

SEMIVITREOUS
Sem`i*vit"re*ous, a.

Defn: Partially vitreous.

SEMIVITRIFICATION
Sem`i*vit"ri*fi*ca"tion, n.

1. The quality or state of being semivitrified.

2. A substance imperfectly vitrified.

SEMIVITRIFIED
Sem`i*vit"ri*fied, a.

Defn: Half or imperfectly vitrified; partially converted into glass.

SEMIVOCAL
Sem`i*vo"cal, a. (Phon.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a semivowel; half cocal; imperfectly
sounding.

SEMIVOWEL
Sem"i*vow`el, n. (Phon.)
(a) A sound intermediate between a vowel and a consonant, or
partaking of the nature of both, as in the English w and y.
(b) The sign or letter representing such a sound.

SEMIWEEKLY
Sem`i*week"ly, a.

Defn: Coming, or made, or done, once every half week; as, a
semiweekly newspaper; a semiweekly trip.
 -- n.

Defn: That which comes or happens once every half week, esp. a
semiweekly periodical.
 -- adv.

Defn: At intervals of half a week each.

SEMOLELLA
Sem`o*lel"la, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: See Semolina.

SEMOLINA
Sem`o*li"na, n. Etym: [It. semolino, from semola bran, L. simila the
finest wheat flour. Cf. Semoule, Simnel.]

Defn: The fine, hard parts of wheat, rounded by the attrition of the
millstones, -- used in cookery.

SEMOLINO
Sem`o*li"no, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: Same as Semolina.

SEMOULE
Se*moule", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Same as Semolina.

SEMPERVIRENT
Sem`per*vi"rent, a. Etym: [L. semper always + virens, p. pr. of
virere to be green.]

Defn: Always fresh; evergreen. [R.] Smart.

SEMPERVIVE
Sem"per*vive, n. Etym: [L. semperviva, sempervivum, fr. sempervivus
ever-living; semper always + vivus living.] (Bot.)

Defn: The houseleek.

SEMPERVIVUM
Sem`per*vi"vum, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of fleshy-leaved plants, of which the houseleek
(Sempervivum tectorum) is the commonest species.

SEMPITERNAL
Sem`pi*ter"nal, a. Etym: [L. sempiternus, fr. semper always: cf. F.
sempiternel.]

1. Of neverending duration; everlasting; endless; having beginning,
but no end. Sir M. Hale.

2. Without beginning or end; eternal. Blackmore.

SEMPITERNE
Sem"pi*terne, a.

Defn: Sempiternal. [Obs.]

SEMPITERNITY
Sem`pi*ter"ni*ty, n. Etym: [L. sempiternitas.]

Defn: Future duration without end; the relation or state of being
sempiternal. Sir M. Hale.

SEMPRE
Sem"pre, adv. Etym: [It., fr. L. semper.] (Mus.)

Defn: Always; throughout; as, sempre piano, always soft.

SEMPSTER
Semp"ster, n.

Defn: A seamster. [Obs.]

SEMPSTRESS
Semp"stress, n.

Defn: A seamstress.
Two hundred sepstress were employed to make me shirts. Swift.

SEMPSTRESSY
Semp"stress*y, n.

Defn: Seamstressy.

SEMSTER
Sem"ster, n.

Defn: A seamster. [Obs.]

SEMUNCIA
Se*mun"ci*a, n. Etym: [L., fr. semi half + uncia ounce.] (Rom.
Antiq.)

Defn: A Roman coin equivalent to one twenty-fourth part of a Roman
pound.

SEN
Sen, n.

Defn: A Japanese coin, worth about one half of a cent.

SEN
Sen, adv., prep., & conj. Etym: [See Since.]

Defn: Since. [Obs.]

SENARY
Sen"a*ry, a. Etym: [L. senarius, fr. seni six each, fr. sex six. See
Six.]

Defn: Of six; belonging to six; containing six. Dr. H. More.

SENATE
Sen"ate, n. Etym: [OE. senat, F. senat, fr. L. senatus, fr. senex,
gen. senis, old, an old man. See Senior, Sir.]

1. An assembly or council having the highest deliberative and
legislative functions. Specifically: (a) (Anc. Rom.)

Defn: A body of elders appointed or elected from among the nobles of
the nation, and having supreme legislative authority.
The senate was thus the medium through which all affairs of the whole
government had to pass. Dr. W. Smith.

(b) The upper and less numerous branch of a legislature in various
countries, as in France, in the United States, in most of the
separate States of the United States, and in some Swiss cantons.
(c) In general, a legislative body; a state council; the legislative
department of government.

2. The governing body of the Universities of Cambridge and London.
[Eng.]

3. In some American colleges, a council of elected students, presided
over by the president of the college, to which are referred cases of
discipline and matters of general concern affecting the students. [U.
S.] Senate chamber, a room where a senate meets when it transacts
business.
 -- Senate house, a house where a senate meets when it transacts
business.

SENATOR
Sen"a*tor, n. Etym: [OE. senatour, OF. senatour, F. senateur, fr. L.
senator.]

1. A member of a senate.
The duke and senators of Venice greet you. Shak.

Note: In the United States, each State sends two senators for a term
of six years to the national Congress.

2. (O.Eng.Law)

Defn: A member of the king's council; a king's councilor. Burrill.

SENATORIAL
Sen`a*to"ri*al, a. Etym: [F. senatorial, or L. senatorius.]

1. Of or pertaining to a senator, or a senate; becoming to a senator,
or a senate; as, senatorial duties; senatorial dignity.

2. Entitled to elect a senator, or by senators; as, the senatorial
districts of a State. [U. S.]

SENATORIALLY
Sen`a*to"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a senatorial manner.

SENATORIAN
Sen`a*to"ri*an, a.

Defn: Senatorial. [R.] De Quincey.

SENATORIOUS
Sen`a*to"ri*ous, a.

Defn: Senatorial. [Obs.]

SENATORSHIP
Sen"a*tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office or dignity of a senator. Carew.

SENATUSCONSULT
Se*na`tus*con*sult", n. Etym: [L. senatus consultum.]

Defn: A decree of the Roman senate.

SEND
Send, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sent (; p. pr. & vb. n. Sending.] Etym:
[AS. sendan; akin to OS. sendian, D. zenden, G. senden, OHG. senten,
Icel. senda, Sw. sanda, Dan. sende, Goth. sandjan, and to Goth. sinp
a time (properly, a going), gasinpa companion, OHG. sind journey, AS.
si, Icel. sinni a walk, journey, a time. W. hynt a way, journey, OIr.
s. Cf. Sense.]

1. To cause to go in any manner; to dispatch; to commission or direct
to go; as, to send a messenger.
I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran. Jer. xxiii. 21.
I proceeded forth and came from God; neither came I of myself, but he
sent me. John viii. 42.
Servants, sent on messages, stay out somewhat longer than the message
requires. Swift.

2. To give motion to; to cause to be borne or carried; to procure the
going, transmission, or delivery of; as, to send a message.
He . . . sent letters by posts on horseback. Esther viii. 10.
O send out thy light an thy truth; let them lead me. Ps. xliii. 3.

3. To emit; to impel; to cast; to throw; to hurl; as, to send a ball,
an arrow, or the like.

4. To cause to be or to happen; to bestow; to inflict; to grant; --
sometimes followed by a dependent proposition. "God send him well!"
Shak.
The Lord shall send upon thee cursing, vexation, and rebuke. Deut.
xxviii. 20.
And sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. Matt. v. 45.
God send your mission may bring back peace. Sir W. Scott.

SEND
Send, v. i.

1. To dispatch an agent or messenger to convey a message, or to do an
errand.
See ye how this son of a murderer hath sent to take away my head 2
Kings vi. 32.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To pitch; as, the ship sends forward so violently as to
endanger her masts. Totten. To send for, to request or require by
message to come or be brought.

SEND
Send, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The impulse of a wave by which a vessel is carried bodily.
[Written also scend.] W. C. Russell. "The send of the sea".
Longfellow.

SENDAL
Sen"dal, n. Etym: [OF. cendal (cf. Pr. & Sp. cendal, It. zendale),
LL. cendallum, Gr.

Defn: A light thin stuff of silk. [Written also cendal, and sendal.]
Chaucer.
Wore she not a veil of twisted sendal embroidered with silver Sir W.
Scott.

SENDER
Send"er, n.

Defn: One who sends. Shak.

SENECAS
Sen"e*cas, n. pl.; sing. Seneca (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of Indians who formerly inhabited a part of Western New
York. This tribe was the most numerous and most warlike of the Five
Nations. Seneca grass(Bot.), holy grass. See under Holy.
 -- Seneca eil, petroleum or naphtha.
 -- Seneca root, or Seneca snakeroot (Bot.), the rootstock of an
American species of milkworth (Polygala Senega) having an aromatic
but bitter taste. It is often used medicinally as an expectorant and
diuretic, and, in large doses, as an emetic and cathartic. [Written
also Senega root, and Seneka root.]

SENECIO
Se*ne"ci*o, n. Etym: [L., groundsel, lit., an old man. So called in
allusion to the hoary appearance of the pappus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A very large genus of composite plants including the groundsel
and the golden ragwort.

SENECTITUDE
Se*nec"ti*tude, n. Etym: [L. senectus aged, old age, senex old.]

Defn: Old age. [R.] "Senectitude, weary of its toils." H. Miller.

SENEGA
Sen"e*ga, n. (Med.)

Defn: Seneca root.

SENEGAL
Sen"e*gal, n.

Defn: Gum senegal. See under Gum.

SENEGIN
Sen"e*gin, n. (Med. Chem.)

Defn: A substance extracted from the rootstock of the Polygala Senega
(Seneca root), and probably identical with polygalic acid.

SENESCENCE
Se*nes"cence, n. Etym: [See Senescent.]

Defn: The state of growing old; decay by time.

SENESCENT
Se*nes"cent, a. Etym: [L. senescent, p. pr. of senescere to grow old,
incho. fr. senere to be old.]

Defn: Growing old; decaying with the lapse of time. "The night was
senescent." Poe. "With too senescent air." Lowell.

SENESCHAL
Sen"es*chal, n. Etym: [OF. seneschal, LL. seniscalcus, of Teutonic
origin; cf. Goth. sineigs old, skalks, OHG. scalch, AS. scealc. Cf.
Senior, Marshal.]

Defn: An officer in the houses of princes and dignitaries, in the
Middle Ages, who had the superintendence of feasts and domestic
ceremonies; a steward. Sometimes the seneschal had the dispensing of
justice, and was given high military commands.
Then marshaled feast Served up in hall with sewers and seneschale.
Milton.
Philip Augustus, by a famous ordinance in 1190, first established
royal courts of justice, held by the officers called baitiffs, or
seneschals, who acted as the king's lieutenants in his demains.
Hallam.

SENESCHALSHIP
Sen"es*chal*ship, n.

Defn: The office, dignity, or jurisdiction of a seneschal.

SENGE
Senge, v. t.

Defn: To singe. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SENGREEN
Sen"green, n.Etym: [AS. singr, properly, evergreen, fr. sin (in
composition) always + grene green; akin to OHG. sin- ever, L.
semper.] (Bot.)

Defn: The houseleek.

SENILE
Se"nile, a. Etym: [L. senilis, from senex, gen. senis, old, an old
man: cf. F. senile. See Senior.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to old age; proceeding from, or characteristic
of, old age; affected with the infirmities of old age; as, senile
weakness. "Senile maturity of judgment." Boyle. Senile gangrene
(Med.), a form of gangrene occuring particularly in old people, and
caused usually by insufficient blood supply due to degeneration of
the walls of the smaller arteries.

SENILITY
Se*nil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. senilite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being senile; old age.

SENIOR
Sen"ior, a. Etym: [L. senior, compar. of senex, gen. senis, old. See
Sir.]

1. More advanced than another in age; prior in age; elder; hence,
more advanced in dignity, rank, or office; superior; as, senior
member; senior counsel.

2. Belonging to the final year of the regular course in American
colleges, or in professional schools.

SENIOR
Sen"ior, n.

1. A person who is older than another; one more advanced in life.

2. One older in office, or whose entrance upon office was anterior to
that of another; one prior in grade.

3. An aged person; an older. Dryden.
Each village senior paused to scan, And speak the lovely caravan.
Emerson.

4. One in the fourth or final year of his collegiate course at an
American college; -- originally called senior sophister; also, one in
the last year of the course at a professional schools or at a
seminary.

SENIORITY
Sen*ior"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being senior.

SENIORIZE
Sen"ior*ize, v. i.

Defn: To exercise authority; to rule; to lord it. [R.] Fairfax.

SENIORY
Sen"ior*y, n.

Defn: Seniority. [Obs.] Shak.

SENNA
Sen"na, n. Etym: [Cf. It. & Sp. sena, Pg. sene, F. sene; all fr. Ar.
sana.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: The leaves of several leguminous plants of the genus Cassia.
(C. acutifolia. C. angustifolia, etc.). They constitute a valuable
but nauseous cathartic medicine.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The plants themselves, native to the East, but now cultivated
largely in the south of Europe and in the West Indies. Bladder senna.
(Bot.) See under Bladder.
 -- Wild senna (Bot.), the Cassia Marilandica, growing in the United
States, the leaves of which are used medicinally, like those of the
officinal senna.

SENNACHY
Sen"na*chy, n.

Defn: See Seannachie.

SENNET
Sen"net, n. Etym: [Properly, a sign given for the entrance or exit of
actors, from OF. sinet, signet, dim. of signe. See Signet.]

Defn: A signal call on a trumpet or cornet for entrance or exit on
the stage. [Obs.]

SENNET
Sen"net, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The barracuda.

SENNIGHT
Sen"night, n. Etym: [Contr. fr. sevennight.]

Defn: The space of seven nights and days; a week. [Written also
se'nnight.] [Archaic.] Shak. Tennyson.

SENNIT
Sen"nit, n. Etym: [Seven + knit.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A braided cord or fabric formed by plaiting together rope yarns
or other small stuff.

2. Plaited straw or palm leaves for making hats.

SENOCULAR
Se*noc"u*lar, a. Etym: [L. seni six each (fr. sex six) + oculus eye.]

Defn: Having six eyes. [R.] Derham.

SENONIAN
Se*no"ni*an, a. Etym: [F. senonien, from the district of Senonais, in
France.] (Geol.)

Defn: In european geology, a name given to the middle division of the
Upper Cretaceous formation.

SENOR; SENHOR
Se*nor", n. Etym: [Sp. Cf. Senior.]

Defn: A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or
Sir; also, a gentleman.

SENORA; SENHORA
Se*no"ra, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also,
a lady.

SENORITA; SENHORITA
Se`no*ri"ta, n. Etym: [Sp.]

Defn: A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also,
a young lady.

SENS
Sens, adv. Etym: [See Since.]

Defn: Since. [Obs.] Spenser.

SENSATE
Sen"sate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sensated; p. pr. & vb. n. Sensating.]
Etym: [See Sensated.]

Defn: To feel or apprehend more or less distinctly through a sense,
or the senses; as, to sensate light, or an odor.
As those of the one are sensated by the ear, so those of the other
are by the eye. R. Hooke.

SENSATE; SENSATED
Sen"sate, Sen"sa*ted, a. Etym: [L. sensatus gifted with sense,
intelligent, fr. sensus sense. See Sense.]

Defn: Felt or apprehended through a sense, or the senses. [R.]
Baxter.

SENSATION
Sen*sa"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sensation. See Sensate.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: An impression, or the consciousness of an impression, made upon
the central nervous organ, through the medium of a sensory or
afferent nerve or one of the organs of sense; a feeling, or state of
consciousness, whether agreeable or disagreeable, produced either by
an external object (stimulus), or by some change in the internal
state of the body.
Perception is only a special kind of knowledge, and sensation a
special kind of feeling. . . . Knowledge and feeling, perception and
sensation, though always coexistent, are always in the inverse ratio
of each other. Sir W. Hamilton.

2. A purely spiritual or psychical affection; agreeable or
disagreeable feelings occasioned by objects that are not corporeal or
material.

3. A state of excited interest or feeling, or that which causes it.
The sensation caused by the appearance of that work is still
remembered by many. Brougham.

Syn.
 -- Perception.
 -- Sensation, Perseption. The distinction between these words, when
used in mental philosophy, may be thus stated; if I simply smell a
rose, I have a sensation; if I refer that smell to the external
object which occasioned it, I have a perception. Thus, the former is
mere feeling, without the idea of an object; the latter is the mind's
apprehension of some external object as occasioning that feeling.
"Sensation properly expresses that change in the state of the mind
which is produced by an impression upon an organ of sense (of which
change we can conceive the mind to be conscious, without any
knowledge of external objects). Perception, on the other hand,
expresses the knowledge or the intimations we obtain by means of our
sensations concerning the qualities of matter, and consequently
involves, in every instance, the notion of externality, or outness,
which it is necessary to exclude in order to seize the precise import
of the word sensation." Fleming.

SENSATIONAL
Sen*sa"tion*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to sensation; as, sensational nerves.

2. Of or pertaining to sensationalism, or the doctrine that sensation
is the sole origin of knowledge.

3. Suited or intended to excite temporarily great interest or
emotion; melodramatic; emotional; as, sensational plays or novels;
sensational preaching; sensational journalism; a sensational report.

SENSATIONALISM
Sen*sa"tion*al*ism, n.

1. (Metaph.)

Defn: The doctrine held by Condillac, and by some ascribed to Locke,
that our ideas originate solely in sensation, and consist of
sensations transformed; sensualism; -- opposed to intuitionalism, and
rationalism.

2. The practice or methods of sensational writing or speaking; as,
the sensationalism of a novel.

SENSATIONALIST
Sen*sa"tion*al*ist, n.

1. (Metaph.)

Defn: An advocate of, or believer in, philosophical sensationalism.

2. One who practices sensational writing or speaking.

SENSE
Sense, n. Etym: [L. sensus, from sentire, sensum, to perceive, to
feel, from the same root as E. send; cf. OHG. sin sense, mind, sinnan
to go, to journey, G. sinnen to meditate, to think: cf. F. sens. For
the change of meaning cf. See, v. t. See Send, and cf. Assent,
Consent, Scent, v. t., Sentence, Sentient.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: A faculty, possessed by animals, of perceiving external objects
by means of impressions made upon certain organs (sensory or sense
organs) of the body, or of perceiving changes in the condition of the
body; as, the senses of sight, smell, hearing, taste, and touch. See
Muscular sense, under Muscular, and Temperature sense, under
Temperature.
Let fancy still my sense in Lethe steep. Shak.
What surmounts the reach Of human sense I shall delineate. Milton.
The traitor Sense recalls The soaring soul from rest. Keble.

2. Perception by the sensory organs of the body; sensation;
sensibility; feeling.
In a living creature, though never so great, the sense and the
affects of any one part of the body instantly make a transcursion
through the whole. Bacon.

3. Perception through the intellect; apprehension; recognition;
understanding; discernment; appreciation.
This Basilius, having the quick sense of a lover. Sir P. Sidney.
High disdain from sense of injured merit. Milton.

4. Sound perception and reasoning; correct judgment; good mental
capacity; understanding; also, that which is sound, true, or
reasonable; rational meaning. "He speaks sense." Shak.
He raves; his words are loose As heaps of sand, and scattering wide
from sense. Dryden.

5. That which is felt or is held as a sentiment, view, or opinion;
judgment; notion; opinion.
I speak my private but impartial sense With freedom. Roscommon.
The municipal council of the city had ceased to speak the sense of
the citizens. Macaulay.

6. Meaning; import; signification; as, the true sense of words or
phrases; the sense of a remark.
So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the
sense. Neh. viii. 8.
I think 't was in another sense. Shak.

7. Moral perception or appreciation.
Some are so hardened in wickedness as to have no sense of the most
friendly offices. L' Estrange.

8. (Geom.)

Defn: One of two opposite directions in which a line, surface, or
volume, may be supposed to be described by the motion of a point,
line, or surface. Common sense, according to Sir W. Hamilton: (a)
"The complement of those cognitions or convictions which we receive
from nature, which all men possess in common, and by which they test
the truth of knowledge and the morality of actions." (b) "The faculty
of first principles." These two are the philosophical significations.
(c) "Such ordinary complement of intelligence, that,if a person be
deficient therein, he is accounted mad or foolish." (d) When the
substantive is emphasized: "Native practical intelligence, natural
prudence, mother wit, tact in behavior, acuteness in the observation
of character, in contrast to habits of acquired learning or of
speculation." -- Moral sense. See under Moral, (a).
 -- The inner, or internal, sense, capacity of the mind to be aware
of its own states; consciousness; reflection. "This source of ideas
every man has wholly in himself, and though it be not sense, as
having nothing to do with external objects, yet it is very like it,
and might properly enough be called internal sense." Locke.
 -- Sense capsule (Anat.), one of the cartilaginous or bony cavities
which inclose, more or less completely, the organs of smell, sight,
and hearing.
 -- Sense organ (Physiol.), a specially irritable mechanism by which
some one natural force or form of energy is enabled to excite sensory
nerves; as the eye, ear, an end bulb or tactile corpuscle, etc.
 -- Sense organule (Anat.), one of the modified epithelial cells in
or near which the fibers of the sensory nerves terminate.

Syn.
 -- Understanding; reason.
 -- Sense, Understanding, Reason. Some philosophers have given a
technical signification to these terms, which may here be stated.
Sense is the mind's acting in the direct cognition either of material
objects or of its own mental states. In the first case it is called
the outer, in the second the inner, sense. Understanding is the
logical faculty, i. e., the power of apprehending under general
conceptions, or the power of classifying, arranging, and making
deductions. Reason is the power of apprehending those first or
fundamental truths or principles which are the conditions of all real
and scientific knowledge, and which control the mind in all its
processes of investigation and deduction. These distinctions are
given, not as established, but simply because they often occur in
writers of the present day.

SENSE
Sense, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sensed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sensing.]

Defn: To perceive by the senses; to recognize. [Obs. or Colloq.]
Is he sure that objects are not otherwise sensed by others than they
are by him Glanvill.

SENSEFUL
Sense"ful, a.

Defn: Full of sense, meaning, or reason; reasonable; judicious. [R.]
"Senseful speech." Spenser. "Men, otherwise senseful and ingenious."
Norris.

SENSELESS
Sense"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of, deficient in, or contrary to, sense; without
sensibility or feeling; unconscious; stupid; foolish; unwise;
unreasonable.
You blocks, you stones, you worse than senseless things. Shak.
The ears are senseless that should give us hearing. Shak.
The senseless grave feels not your pious sorrows. Rowe.
They were a senseless, stupid race. Swift.
They would repent this their senseless perverseness when it would be
too late. Clarendon.
--- Sense"less*ly, adv.
 -- Sense"less*ness, n.

SENSIBILITY
Sen`si*bil"i*ty, n.; pl. Sensibilities. Etym: [Cf. F. sensibilite,
LL. sensibilitas.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: The quality or state of being sensible, or capable of
sensation; capacity to feel or perceive.

2. The capacity of emotion or feeling, as distinguished from the
intellect and the will; peculiar susceptibility of impression,
pleasurable or painful; delicacy of feeling; quick emotion or
sympathy; as, sensibility to pleasure or pain; sensibility to shame
or praise; exquisite sensibility; -- often used in the plural.
"Sensibilities so fine!" Cowper.
The true lawgiver ought to have a heart full of sensibility. Burke.
His sensibilities seem rather to have been those of patriotism than
of wounded pride. Marshall.

3. Experience of sensation; actual feeling.
This adds greatly to my sensibility. Burke.

4. That quality of an instrument which makes it indicate very slight
changes of condition; delicacy; as, the sensibility of a balance, or
of a thermometer.

Syn.
 -- Taste; susceptibility; feeling. See Taste.

SENSIBLE
Sen"si*ble, a. Etym: [F., fr. L. sensibilis, fr. sensus sense.]

1. Capable of being perceived by the senses; apprehensible through
the bodily organs; hence, also, perceptible to the mind; making an
impression upon the sense, reason, or understanding; sensible
resistance.
Air is sensible to the touch by its motion. Arbuthnot.
The disgrace was more sensible than the pain. Sir W. Temple.
Any very sensible effect upon the prices of things. A. Smith.

2. Having the capacity of receiving impressions from external
objects; capable of perceiving by the instrumentality of the proper
organs; liable to be affected physsically or mentally; impressible.
Would your cambric were sensible as your finger. Shak.

3. Hence: Liable to impression from without; easily affected; having
nice perception or acute feeling; sensitive; also, readily moved or
affected by natural agents; delicate; as, a sensible thermometer.
"With affection wondrous sensible." Shak.

4. Perceiving or having perception, either by the senses or the mind;
cognizant; perceiving so clearly as to be convinced; satisfied;
persuaded.
He [man] can not think at any time, waking or sleeping, without being
sensible of it. Locke.
They are now sensible it would have been better to comply than to
refuse. Addison.

5. Having moral perception; capable of being affected by moral good
or evil.

6. Possessing or containing sense or reason; giftedwith, or
characterized by, good or common sense; intelligent; wise.
Now a sensible man, by and by a fool. Shak.
Sensible note or tone (Mus.), the major seventh note of any scale; --
so called because, being but a half step below the octave, or key
tone, and naturally leading up to that, it makes the ear sensible of
its approaching sound. Called also the leading tone.
 -- Sensible horizon. See Horizon, n., 2. (a).

Syn.
 -- Intelligent; wise.
 -- Sensible, Intelligent. We call a man sensible whose judgments and
conduct are marked and governed by sound judgment or good common
semse. We call one intelligent who is quick and clear in his
understanding, i. e., who discriminates readily and nicely in respect
to difficult and important distinction. The sphere of the sensible
man lies in matters of practical concern; of the intelligent man, in
subjects of intellectual interest. "I have been tired with accounts
from sensible men, furnished with matters of fact which have happened
within their own knowledge." Addison. "Trace out numerous footsteps .
. . of a most wise and intelligent architect throughout all this
stupendous fabric." Woodward.

SENSIBLE
Sen"si*ble, n.

1. Sensation; sensibility. [R.] "Our temper changed . . . which must
needs remove the sensible of pain." Milton.

2. That which impresses itself on the sense; anything perceptible.
Aristotle distinguished sensibles into common and proper. Krauth-
Fleming.

3. That which has sensibility; a sensitive being. [R.]
This melancholy extends itself not to men only, but even to vegetals
and sensibles. Burton.

SENSIBLENESS
Sen"si*ble*ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being sensible; sensibility; appreciation;
capacity of perception; susceptibility. "The sensibleness of the
eye." Sharp. "Sensibleness and sorrow for sin." Hammond.
The sensibleness of the divine presence. Hallywell.

2. Intelligence; reasonableness; good sense.

SENSIBLY
Sen"si*bly, adv.

1. In a sensible manner; so as to be perceptible to the senses or to
the mind; appreciably; with perception; susceptibly; sensitively.
What remains past cure, Bear not too sensibly. Milton.

2. With intelligence or good sense; judiciously.

SENSIFACIENT
Sen`si*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. sensus sense + facere to make.]

Defn: Converting into sensation. Huxley.

SENSIFEROUS
Sen*sif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. sensifer; sensus sense + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Exciting sensation; conveying sensation. Huxley.

SENSIFIC
Sen*sif"ic, a. Etym: [L. sensificus; sensus sense + facere to make.]

Defn: Exciting sensation.

SENSIFICATORY
Sen*sif"i*ca*to*ry, a.

Defn: Susceptible of, or converting into, sensation; as, the
sensificatory part of a nervous system. Huxley.

SENSIGENOUS
Sen*sig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. sensus sense + -genous.]

Defn: Causing or exciting sensation. Huxley.

SENSISM
Sens"ism, n.

Defn: Same as Sensualism, 2 & 3.

SENSIST
Sens"ist, n.

Defn: One who, in philosophy, holds to sensism.

SENSITIVE
Sen"si*tive, a. Etym: [F. sensitif. See Sense.]

1. Having sense of feeling; possessing or exhibiting the capacity of
receiving impressions from external objects; as, a sensitive soul.

2. Having quick and acute sensibility, either to the action of
external objects, or to impressions upon the mind and feelings;
highly susceptible; easily and acutely affected.
She was too sensitive to abuse and calumny. Macaulay.

3.
(a) (Mech.) Having a capacity of being easily affected or moved; as,
a sensitive thermometer; sensitive scales.
(b) (Chem. & Photog.) Readily affected or changed by certain
appropriate agents; as, silver chloride or bromide, when in contact
with certain organic substances, is extremely sensitive to actinic
rays.

4. Serving to affect the sense; sensible. [R.]
A sensitive love of some sensitive objects. Hammond.

5. Of or pertaining to sensation; depending on sensation; as,
sensitive motions; sensitive muscular motions excited by irritation.
E. Darwin. Sensitive fern (Bot.), an American fern (Onoclea
sensibilis), the leaves of which, when plucked, show a slight
tendency to fold together.
 -- Sensitive flame (Physics), a gas flame so arranged that under a
suitable adjustment of pressure it is exceedingly sensitive to
sounds, being caused to roar, flare, or become suddenly shortened or
extinguished, by slight sounds of the proper pitch.
 -- Sensitive joint vetch (Bot.), an annual leguminous herb
(?schynomene hispida), with sensitive foliage.
 -- Sensitive paper, paper prepared for photographic purpose by being
rendered sensitive to the effect of light.
 -- Sensitive plant. (Bot.) (a) A leguminous plant (Mimosa pudica, or
M. sensitiva, and other allied species), the leaves of which close at
the slightest touch. (b) Any plant showing motions after irritation,
as the sensitive brier (Schrankia) of the Southern States, two common
American species of Cassia (C. nictitans, and C. Cham?crista), a kind
of sorrel (Oxalis sensitiva), etc.

-- Sen"si*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Sen"si*tive*ness, n.

SENSITIVITY
Sen`si*tiv"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sensitive; -- used chiefly in
science and the arts; as, the sensitivity of iodized silver.
Sensitivity and emotivity have also been used as the scientific term
for the capacity of feeling. Hickok.

SENSITIZE
Sen"si*tize, v. t. (Photog.)

Defn: To render sensitive, or susceptible of being easily acted on by
the actinic rays of the sun; as, sensitized paper or plate.

SENSITIZER
Sen"si*ti`zer, n. (Photog.)

Defn: An agent that sensitizes.
The sensitizer should be poured on the middle of the sheet. Wilis &
Clements (The Platinotype).

SENSITOMETER
Sen`si*tom"e*ter, n. [See Sensitive; -meter.] (Photog.)

Defn: An instrument or apparatus for comparing and grading the
sensitiveness of plates, films, etc., as a screen divided into
squares of different shades or colors, from which a picture is made
on the plate to be tested.

SENSITORY
Sen"si*to*ry, n.

Defn: See Sensory.

SENSIVE
Sens"ive, a.

Defn: Having sense or sensibility; sensitive. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

SENSOR
Sen"sor, a.

Defn: Sensory; as, the sensor nerves.

SENSORIAL
Sen*so"ri*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sensorial. See Sensorium.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sensorium; as, sensorial faculties,
motions, powers. A. Tucker.

SENSORIUM
Sen*so"ri*um, n.; pl. E. Sensoriums, L. Sensoria. Etym: [L., fr.
sentire, sensum, to discern or perceive by the senses.] (Physiol.)

Defn: The seat of sensation; the nervous center or centers to which
impressions from the external world must be conveyed before they can
be perceived; the place where external impressions are localized, and
transformed into sensations, prior to being reflected to other parts
of the organism; hence, the whole nervous system, when animated, so
far as it is susceptible of common or special sensations.

SENSORI-VOLITIONAL
Sen*so`ri-vo*li"tion*al, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Concerned both in sensation and volition; -- applied to those
nerve fibers which pass to and from the cerebro-spinal axis, and are
respectively concerned in sensation and volition. Dunglison.

SENSORY
Sen"so*ry, n.; pl. Sensories (. (Physiol.)

Defn: Same as Sensorium.

SENSORY
Sen"so*ry, a. (Physiol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sensorium or sensation; as, sensory
impulses; -- especially applied to those nerves and nerve fibers
which convey to a nerve center impulses resulting in sensation; also
sometimes loosely employed in the sense of afferent, to indicate
nerve fibers which convey impressions of any kind to a nerve center.

SENSUAL
Sen"su*al, a. Etym: [L. sensualis, from sensus sense: cf. F.
sensuel.]

1. Pertaining to, consisting in, or affecting, the sense, or bodily
organs of perception; relating to, or concerning, the body, in
distinction from the spirit.
Pleasing and sensual rites and ceremonies. Bacon.
Far as creation's ample range extends, The scale of sensual, mental
powers ascends. Pope.

2. Hence, not spiritual or intellectual; carnal; fleshly; pertaining
to, or consisting in, the gratification of the senses, or the
indulgence of appetites; wordly.
These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the
Spirit. Jude 19.
The greatest part of men are such as prefer . . . that good which is
sensual before whatsoever is most divine. Hooker.

3. Devoted to the pleasures of sense and appetite; luxurious;
voluptuous; lewd; libidinous.
No small part of virtue consists in abstaining from that wherein
sensual men place their felicity. Atterbury.

4. Pertaining or peculiar to the philosophical doctrine of
sensualism.

SENSUALISM
Sen"su*al*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sensualisme.]

1. The condition or character of one who is sensual; subjection to
sensual feelings and appetite; sensuality.

2. (Philos.)

Defn: The doctrine that all our ideas, or the operations of the
understanding, not only originate in sensation, but are transformed
sensations, copies or relics of sensations; sensationalism; sensism.

3. (Ethics)

Defn: The regarding of the gratification of the senses as the highest
good. Krauth-Fleming.

SENSUALIST
Sen"su*al*ist, n. Etym: [CF. F. sensualiste.]

1. One who is sensual; one given to the indulgence of the appetites
or senses as the means of happiness.

2. One who holds to the doctrine of sensualism.

SENSUALISTIC
Sen`su*al*is"tic, a.

1. Sensual.

2. Adopting or teaching the doctrines of sensualism.

SENSUALITY
Sen`su*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [CF. F. sensualite, L. sensualitas
sensibility, capacity for sensation.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sensual; devotedness to the
gratification of the bodily appetites; free indulgence in carnal or
sensual pleasures; luxuriousness; voluptuousness; lewdness.
Those pampered animals That rage in savage sensuality. Shak.
They avoid dress, lest they should have affections tainted by any
sensuality. Addison.

SENSUALIZATION
Sen`su*al*i*za"tion, n.

Defn: The act of sensualizing, or the state of being sensualized.

SENSUALIZE
Sen"su*al*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sensualized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sensualizing.]

Defn: To make sensual; to subject to the love of sensual pleasure; to
debase by carnal gratifications; to carnalize; as, sensualized by
pleasure. Pope.
By the neglect of prayer, the thoughts are sensualized. T. H.
Skinner.

SENSUALLY
Sen"su*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sensual manner.

SENSUALNESS
Sen"su*al*ness, n.

Defn: Sensuality; fleshliness.

SENSUISM
Sen"su*ism, n.

Defn: Sensualism.

SENSUOSITY
Sen`su*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sensuous; sensuousness. [R.]

SENSUOUS
Sen"su*ous, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the senses, or sensible objects; addressing
the senses; suggesting pictures or images of sense.
To this poetry would be made precedent, as being less subtle and
fine, but more simple, sensuous, and passionate. Milton.

2. Highly susceptible to influence through the senses.
 -- Sen"su*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Sen"su*ous*ness, n.

SENT
Sent, v. & n.

Defn: See Scent, v. & n. [Obs.] Spenser.

SENT
Sent,

Defn: obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Send, for sendeth.

SENT
Sent,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Send.

SENTENCE
Sen"tence, n. Etym: [F., from L. sententia, for sentientia, from
sentire to discern by the senses and the mind, to feel, to think. See
Sense, n., and cf. Sentiensi.]

1. Sense; meaning; significance. [Obs.]
Tales of best sentence and most solace. Chaucer.
The discourse itself, voluble enough, and full of sentence. Milton.

2.
(a) An opinion; a decision; a determination; a judgment, especially
one of an unfavorable nature.
My sentence is for open war. Milton.
That by them [Luther's works] we may pass sentence upon his
doctrines. Atterbury.

(b) A philosophical or theological opinion; a dogma; as, Summary of
the Sentences; Book of the Sentences.

3. (Law)

Defn: In civil and admiralty law, the judgment of a court pronounced
in a cause; in criminal and ecclesiastical courts, a judgment passed
on a criminal by a court or judge; condemnation pronounced by a
judgical tribunal; doom. In common law, the term is exclusively used
to denote the judgment in criminal cases.
Received the sentence of the law. Shak.

4. A short saying, usually containing moral instruction; a maxim; an
axiom; a saw. Broome.

5. (Gram.)

Defn: A combination of words which is complete as expressing a
thought, and in writing is marked at the close by a period, or full
point. See Proposition, 4.

Note: Sentences are simple or compound. A simple sentence consists of
one subject and one finite verb; as, "The Lord reigns." A compound
sentence contains two or more subjects and finite verbs, as in this
verse: -
He fills, he bounds, connects, and equals all. Pope.
Dark sentence, a saving not easily explained.
A king . . . understanding dark sentences. Dan. vii. 23.

SENTENCE
Sen"tence, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sentenced; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sentencing.]

1. To pass or pronounce judgment upon; to doom; to condemn to
punishment; to prescribe the punishment of.
Nature herself is sentenced in your doom. Dryden.

2. To decree or announce as a sentence. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To utter sentenciously. [Obs.] Feltham.

SENTENCE METHOD
Sen"tence meth`od. (Education)

Defn: A method of teaching reading by giving first attention to
phrases and sentences and later analyzing these into their verbal and
alphabetic components; -- contrasted with alphabet and word methods.

SENTENCER
Sen"ten*cer, n.

Defn: One who pronounced a sentence or condemnation.

SENTENTIAL
sen*ten"tial, a.

1. Comprising sentences; as, a sentential translation. Abp. Newcome.

2. Of or pertaining to a sentence, or full period; as, a sentential
pause.

SENTENTIALLY
Sen*ten"tial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sentential manner.

SENTENTIARIST
Sen*ten"ti*a*rist, n.

Defn: A sententiary. Barnas Sears (Life of Luther).

SENTENTIARY
Sen*ten"ti*ary, n. Etym: [LL. sententiarius.]

Defn: One who read lectures, or commented, on the Sentences of Peter
Lombard, Bishop of Paris (1159-1160), a school divine. R. Henry.

SENTENTIOSITY
Sen*ten`ti*os"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sententious. [Obs.] Sir T.
Browne.

SENTENTIOUS
Sen*ten"tious, a.Etym: [L. sentenciosus: cf. F. sentencieux.]

1. Abounding with sentences, axioms, and maxims; full of meaning;
terse and energetic in expression; pithy; as, a sententious style or
discourse; sententious truth.
How he apes his sire, Ambitiously sententious! Addison.

2. Comprising or representing sentences; sentential. [Obs.]
"Sententious marks." Grew. --- Sen*ten"tious*ly, adv.
 -- Sen*ten"tious*ness, n.

SENTERY
Sen"ter*y, n.

Defn: A sentry. [Obs.] Milton.

SENTEUR
Sen"teur, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Scent. [Obs.] Holland.

SENTIENCE; SENTIENCY
Sen"ti*ence, Sen"ti*en*cy, n. Etym: [See Sentient, Sentence.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sentient; esp., the quality or
state of having sensation. G. H. Lewes
An example of harmonious action between the intelligence and the
sentieny of the mind. Earle.

SENTIENT
Sen"ti*ent, a. Etym: [L. sentiens, -entis, p. pr. of sentire to
discern or perceive by the senses. See Sense.]

Defn: Having a faculty, or faculties, of sensation and perception.
Specif. (Physiol.), especially sensitive; as, the sentient
extremities of nerves, which terminate in the various organs or
tissues.

SENTIENT
Sen"ti*ent, n.

Defn: One who has the faculty of perception; a sentient being.

SENTIENTLY
Sen"ti*ent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sentient or perceptive way.

SENTIMENT
Sen"ti*ment, n. Etym: [OE. sentement, OF. sentement, F. sentiment,
fr. L. sentire to perceive by the senses and mind, to feel, to think.
See Sentient, a.]

1. A thought prompted by passion or feeling; a state of mind in view
of some subject; feeling toward or respecting some person or thing;
disposition prompting to action or expression.
The word sentiment, agreeably to the use made of it by our best
English writers, expresses, in my own opinion very happily, those
complex determinations of the mind which result from the cooperation
of our rational powers and of our moral feelings. Stewart.
Alike to council or the assembly came, With equal souls and
sentiments the same. Pope.

2. Hence, generally, a decision of the mind formed by deliberation or
reasoning; thought; opinion; notion; judgment; as, to express one's
sentiments on a subject.
Sentiments of philosophers about the perception of external objects.
Reid.
Sentiment, as here and elsewhere employed by Reid in the meaning of
opinion (sententia), is not to be imitated. Sir W. Hamilton.

3. A sentence, or passage, considered as the expression of a thought;
a maxim; a saying; a toast.

4. Sensibility; feeling; tender susceptibility.
Mr. Hume sometimes employs (after the manner of the French
metaphysicians) sentiment as synonymous with feeling; a use of the
word quite unprecedented in our tongue. Stewart.
Less of sentiment than sense. Tennyson.

Syn.
 -- Thought; opinion; notion; sensibility; feeling.
 -- Sentiment, Opinion, Feeling. An opinion is an intellectual
judgment in respect to any and every kind of truth. Feeling describes
those affections of pleasure and pain which spring from the exercise
of our sentient and emotional powers. Sentiment (particularly in the
plural) lies between them, denoting settled opinions or principles in
regard to subjects which interest the feelings strongly, and are
presented more or less constantly in practical life. Hence, it is
more appropriate to speak of our religious sentiments than opinions,
unless we mean to exclude all reference to our feelings. The word
sentiment, in the singular, leans ordinarily more to the side of
feeling, and denotes a refined sensibility on subjects affecting the
heart. "On questions of feeling, taste, observation, or report, we
define our sentiments. On questions of science, argument, or
metaphysical abstraction, we define our opinions. The sentiments of
the heart. The opinions of the mind . . . There is more of instinct
in sentiment, and more of definition in opinion. The admiration of a
work of art which results from first impressions is classed with our
sentiments; and, when we have accounted to ourselves for the
approbation, it is classed with our opinions." W. Taylor.

SENTIMENTAL
Sen`ti*men"tal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sentimental.]

1. Having, expressing, or containing a sentiment or sentiments;
abounding with moral reflections; containing a moral reflection;
didactic. [Obsoles.]
Nay, ev'n each moral sentimental stroke, Where not the character, but
poet, spoke, He lopped, as foreign to his chaste design, Nor spared a
useless, though a golden line. Whitehead.

2. Inclined to sentiment; having an excess of sentiment or
sensibility; indulging the sensibilities for their own sake;
artificially or affectedly tender; -- often in a reproachful sense.
A sentimental mind is rather prone to overwrought feeling and
exaggerated tenderness. Whately.

3. Addressed or pleasing to the emotions only, usually to the weaker
and the unregulated emotions.

Syn.
 -- Romantic.
 -- Sentimental, Romantic. Sentimental usually describes an error or
excess of the sensibilities; romantic, a vice of the imagination. The
votary of the former gives indulgence to his sensibilities for the
mere luxury of their excitement; the votary of the latter allows his
imagination to rove for the pleasure of creating scenes of ideal
enjoiment. "Perhaps there is no less danger in works called
sentimental. They attack the heart more successfully, because more
cautiously." V. Knox. "I can not but look on an indifferency of mind,
as to the good or evil things of this life, as a mere romantic fancy
of such who would be thought to be much wiser than they ever were, or
could be." Bp. Stillingfleet.

SENTIMENTALISM
Sen`ti*men"tal*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sentimentalisme.]

Defn: The quality of being sentimental; the character or behavior of
a sentimentalist; sentimentality.

SENTIMENTALIST
Sen`ti*men"tal*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sentimentaliste.]

Defn: One who has, or affects, sentiment or fine feeling.

SENTIMENTALITY
Sen`ti*men*tal"i*ty, n. Etym: [CF. F. sentimentalite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sentimental.

SENTIMENTALIZE
Sen`ti*men"tal*ize, v. t.

Defn: To regard in a sentimental manner; as, to sentimentalize a
subject.

SENTIMENTALIZE
Sen`ti*men"tal*ize, v. i.

Defn: To think or act in a sentimental manner, or like a
sentimentalist; to affect exquisite sensibility. C. Kingsley.

SENTIMENTALLY
Sen`ti*men"tal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sentimental manner.

SENTINE
Sen"tine, n. Etym: [L. sentina bilge water, hold of a ship, dregs:
cf. F. sentine.]

Defn: A place for dregs and dirt; a sink; a sewer. [Obs.] Latimer.

SENTINEL
Sen"ti*nel, n. Etym: [F. sentinelle (cf. It. sentinella); probably
originally, a litle path, the sentinel's beat,, and a dim. of a word
meaning, path; cf. F. sente path. L. semita; and OF. sentine,
sentele, senteret, diminutive words. Cf. Sentry.]

1. One who watches or guards; specifically (Mil.), a soldier set to
guard an army, camp, or other place, from surprise, to observe the
approach of danger, and give notice of it; a sentry.
The sentinels who paced the ramparts. Macaulay.

2. Watch; guard. [Obs.] "That princes do keep due sentinel." Bacon.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A marine crab (Podophthalmus vigil) native of the Indian Ocean,
remarkable for the great length of its eyestalks; -- called also
sentinel crab.

SENTINEL
Sen"ti*nel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sentineled or Sentinelled; p. pr. &
vb. n. Sentineling or Sentinelling.]

1. To watch over like a sentinel. "To sentinel enchanted land." [R.]
Sir W. Scott.

2. To furnish with a sentinel; to place under the guard of a sentinel
or sentinels.

SENTISECTION
Sen`ti*sec"tion, n. Etym: [L. sentire to feel + E. section.]

Defn: Painful vivisection; -- opposed to callisection. B. G. Wilder.

SENTRY
Sen"try, n.; pl. Sentires. Etym: [Probably from OF. senteret a little
patch; cf. F. sentier path, and OF. sente. See Sentinel.]

1. (Mil.)

Defn: A soldier placed on guard; a sentinel.

2. Guard; watch, as by a sentinel.
Here toils, and death, and death's half-brother, sleep, Forms
terrible to view, their sentry keep. Dryden.
Sentry box, a small house or box to cover a sentinel at his post, and
shelter him from the weather.

SENZA
Sen"za, prep. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Without; as, senza stromenti, without instruments.

SEOR
Se*nor", n. [Sp.  Cf. Senior.]

Defn: A Spanish title of courtesy corresponding to the English Mr. or
Sir; also, a gentleman.

SEORA
Se*no"ra, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A Spanish title of courtesy given to a lady; Mrs.; Madam; also,
a lady.

SEORITA
Se`no*ri"ta, n. [Sp.]

Defn: A Spanish title of courtesy given to a young lady; Miss; also,
a young lady.

SEPAL
Se"pal, n. Etym: [NL. sepalum, formed in imitation of NL. petalum,
petal, to denote one of the divisions of the calyx: cf. F. sepale.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A leaf or division of the calyx.

Note: When the calyx consists of but one part, it is said to be
monosepalous; when of two parts, it is said to be disepalous; when of
a variable and indefinite number of parts, it is said to be
polysepalous; when of several parts united, it is properly called
gamosepalous.

SEPALED
Se"paled, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having one or more sepals.

SEPALINE
Sep"al*ine, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Relating to, or having the nature of, sepals.

SEPALODY
Se*pal"o*dy, n. Etym: [Sepal + Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: The metamorphosis of other floral organs into sepals or
sepaloid bodies.

SEPALOID
Sep"al*oid, a. Etym: [Sepal + -oid.] (Bot.)

Defn: Like a sepal, or a division of a calyx.

SEPALOUS
Sep"al*ous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Having, or relating to, sepals; -- used mostly in composition.
See under Sepal.

SEPARABILITY
Sep`a*ra*bil"i*ty, n.

Defn: Quality of being separable or divisible; divisibility;
separableness.

SEPARABLE
Sep"a*ra*ble, a. Etym: [L. separabilis: cf. F. separable.]

Defn: Capable of being separated, disjoined, disunited, or divided;
as, the separable parts of plants; qualities not separable from the
substance in which they exist.
 -- Sep"a*ra*ble*ness, n.
 -- Sep"a*ra*bly, adv.
Trials permit me not to doubt of the separableness of a yellow
tincture from gold. Boyle.

SEPARATE
Sep"a*rate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Separated (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Separating.] Etym: [L. separatus, p. p. of separare to separate;
pfref. se- aside + parare to make ready, prepare. See Parade, and cf.
Sever.]

1. To disunite; to divide; to disconnect; to sever; to part in any
manner.
From the fine gold I separate the alloy. Dryden.
Separate thyself, I pray thee, from me. Gen. xiii. 9.
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ Rom. viii. 35.

2. To come between; to keep apart by occupying the space between; to
lie between; as, the Mediterranean Sea separates Europe and Africa.

3. To set apart; to select from among others, as for a special use or
service.
Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called
thaem. Acts xiii. 2.
Separated flowers (Bot.), flowers which have stamens and pistils in
separate flowers; diclinous flowers. Gray.

SEPARATE
Sep"a*rate, v. i.

Defn: To part; to become disunited; to be disconnected; to withdraw
from one another; as, the family separated.

SEPARATE
Sep"a*rate, p. a. Etym: [L. separatus, p. p. ]

1. Divided from another or others; disjoined; disconnected;
separated; -- said of things once connected.
Him that was separate from his brethren. Gen. xlix. 26.

2. Unconnected; not united or associated; distinct; -- said of things
that have not been connected.
For such an high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled,
separate from sinnere. Heb. vii. 26.

3. Disunited from the body; disembodied; as, a separate spirit; the
separate state of souls. Separate estate (Law), an estate limited to
a married woman independent of her husband.
 -- Separate maintenance (Law), an allowance made to a wife by her
husband under deed of separation.
 -- Sep"a*rate*ly, adv.
 -- Sep"a*rate*ness, n.

SEPARATICAL
Sep`a*rat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to separatism in religion; schismatical. [R.]
Dr. T. Dwight.

SEPARATING
Sep"a*ra`ting, a.

Defn: Designed or employed to separate. Separating funnel (Chem.), a
funnel, often globe-shaped, provided with a stopcock for the separate
drawing off of immiscible liquids of different specific gravities.

SEPARATION
Sep`a*ra"tion, n. Etym: [L. separatio: cf. F. separation.]

Defn: The act of separating, or the state of being separated, or
separate. Specifically:
(a) Chemical analysis.
(b) Divorce.
(c) (Steam Boilers) The operation of removing water from steam.
Judicial separation (Law), a form of divorce; a separation of man and
wife which has the effect of making each a single person for all
legal purposes but without ability to contract a new marriage. Mozley
& W.

SEPARATISM
Sep"a*ra*tism, n. Etym: [CF. F. separatisme.]

Defn: The character or act of a separatist; disposition to withdraw
from a church; the practice of so withdrawing.

SEPARATIST
Sep`a*ra*tist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. separatiste.]

Defn: One who withdraws or separates himself; especially, one who
withdraws from a church to which he has belonged; a seceder from an
established church; a dissenter; a nonconformist; a schismatic; a
sectary.
Heavy fines on divines who should preach in any meeting of separatist
. Macaulay.

SEPARATISTIC
Sep`a*ra*tis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to separatists; characterizing separatists;
schismatical.

SEPARATIVE
Sep"a*ra*tive, a. Etym: [L. separativus.]

Defn: Causing, or being to cause, separation. "Separative virtue of
extreme cold." Boyle.

SEPARATOR
Sep"a*ra`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who, or that which, separates. Specifically:
(a) (Steam Boilers) A device for depriving steam of particles of
water mixed with it.
(b) (Mining) An apparatus for sorting pulverized ores into grades, or
separating them from gangue. (c) (Weaving)

Defn: An instrument used for spreading apart the threads of the warp
in the loom, etc.

SEPARATORY
Sep"a*ra*to*ry, a.

Defn: Separative. Cheyne.

SEPARATORY
Sep"a*ra*to*ry, n. Etym: [Cf. F. separatoire.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: An apparatus used in separating, as a separating funnel.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A surgical instrument for separating the pericranium from the
cranium. [Obs.]

SEPARATRIX
Sep`a*ra"trix, n.; pl. L. -trices, E. -trixes. Etym: [L., she that
separates.] (Arith.)

Defn: The decimal point; the dot placed at the left of a decimal
fraction, to separate it from the whole number which it follows. The
term is sometimes also applied to other marks of separation.

SEPAWN
Se*pawn", n.

Defn: See Supawn. [Local, U.S.]

SEPELIBLE
Sep"e*li*ble, a. Etym: [L. sepelibilis, fr. sepelire to bury.]

Defn: Admitting of burial. [Obs.] Bailey.

SEPELITION
Sep`e*li"tion, n.

Defn: Burial. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SEPHARDIC
Se*phar"dic, a. [From Sephardim, a name applied to the Spanish Jews,
fr. Sephard, name of a place where Jews were held in captivity (Ob.
20).]

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, the Jews (the Sephardim,
also called Spanish or Portuguese Jews) descended from Jewish
families driven from Spain by the Inquisition.

SEPHARDIM
Se*phar"dim, n. pl. [NHeb.; orig. uncert.]

Defn: Jews who are descendants of the former Jews of Spain and
Portugal. They are as a rule darker than the northern Jews, and have
more delicate features.

SEPHEN
Se"phen, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A large sting ray of the genus Trygon, especially T. sephen of
the Indian Ocean and the Red Sea. The skin is an article of commerce.

SEPIA
Se"pi*a, n.; pl. E. Sepias, L. Sepi?. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. (Zool.)
(a) The common European cuttlefish.
(b) A genus comprising the common cuttlefish and numerous similar
species. See Illustr. under Cuttlefish.

2. A pigment prepared from the ink, or black secretion, of the sepia,
or cuttlefish. Treated with caustic potash, it has a rich brown
color; and this mixed with a red forms Roman sepia. Cf. India ink,
under India. Sepia drawing or picture, a drawing in monochrome, made
in sepia alone, or in sepia with other brown pigments.

SEPIA
Se"pi*a, a.

Defn: Of a dark brown color, with a little red in its composition;
also, made of, or done in, sepia.

SEPIC
Se"pic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sepia; done in sepia; as, a sepic drawing.

SEPIDACEOUS
Sep`i*da"ceous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Like or pertaining to the cuttlefishes of the genus Sepia.

SEPIMENT
Sep"i*ment, n. Etym: [L. sepimentum, saepimentum, from sepire,
saepire, to hedge in.]

Defn: Something that separates; a hedge; a fence. [R.] Bailey.

SEPIOLITE
Se"pi*o*lite`, n. Etym: [Septa + -lite.] (Min.)

Defn: Meerschaum. See Meerschaum.

SEPIOSTARE
Se"pi*o*stare`, n. Etym: [Sepia + Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: The bone or shell of cuttlefish. See Illust. under Cuttlefish.

SEPON
Se*pon", n.

Defn: See Supawn. [Local, U.S.]

SEPOSE
Se*pose", v. t. Etym: [L. pref se- aside + E. pose.]

Defn: To set apart. [Obs.] Donne.

SEPOSIT
Se*pos"it, v. t. Etym: [L. sepositus, p. p. of seponere to set
aside.]

Defn: To set aside; to give up. [Obs.]

SEPOSITION
Sep`o*si"tion (, n. Etym: [L. sepositio.]

Defn: The act of setting aside, or of giving up. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

SEPOY
Se"poy, n. Etym: [Per. sipahi, fr. sipah an army. Cf. Spahi.]

Defn: A native of India employed as a soldier in the service of a
European power, esp. of Great Britain; an Oriental soldier
disciplined in the European manner.

SEPPUKU
Sep*pu"ku, n.

Defn: Same as Hara-kiri.
Seppuku, or hara-kiri, also came into vogue. W. E. Griffis.

SEPSIN
Sep"sin, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A soluble poison (ptomaine) present in putrid blood. It is also
formed in the putrefaction of proteid matter in general.

SEPSIS
Sep"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: The poisoning of the system by the introduction of putrescent
material into the blood.

SEPT
Sept, n. Etym: [A corruption of sect, n.]

Defn: A clan, tribe, or family, proceeding from a common progenitor;
-- used especially of the ancient clans in Ireland.
The chief, struck by the illustration, asked at once to be baptized,
and all his sept followed his example. S. Lover.

SEPTAEMIA
Sep*t?"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: Septic?mia.

SEPTAL
Sep"tal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a septum or septa, as of a coral or a
shell.

SEPTANE
Sep"tane, n. Etym: [L. septem seven.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Heptane. [R.]

SEPTANGLE
Sep"tan`gle, n. Etym: [Septi- + angle.] (Geom.)

Defn: A figure which has seven angles; a heptagon. [R.]

SEPTANGULAR
Sep*tan"gu*lar, a.

Defn: Heptagonal.

SEPTARIUM
Sep*ta"ri*um, n.;pl. Septaria. Etym: [NL., fr. L. septum, saeptum, an
inclosure, a partition, fr. sepire, saepire, to inclose.] (Geol.)

Defn: A flattened concretionary nodule, usually of limestone,
intersected within by cracks which are often filled with calcite,
barite, or other minerals.

SEPTATE
Sep"tate, a. Etym: [L. septum, saeptum, partition.]

Defn: Divided by partition or partitions; having septa; as, a septate
pod or shell.

SEPTEMBER
Sep*tem"ber, n. Etym: [L., fr. septem seven, as being the seventh
month of the Roman year, which began with March: cf. F. septembre.
See Seven.]

Defn: The ninth month of the year, containing thurty days.

SEPTEMBERER
Sep*tem"ber*er, n.

Defn: A Setembrist. Carlyle.

SEPTEMBRIST
Sep*tem"brist, n. Etym: [F. septembriste.]

Defn: An agent in the massacres in Paris, committed in patriotic
frenzy, on the 22d of September, 1792.

SEPTEMFLUOUS
Sep*tem"flu*ous, a.Etym: [L. septemfluus; septem seven + fluere to
flow.]

Defn: Flowing sevenfold; divided into seven streams or currents. [R.]
Fuller.

SEPTEMPARTITE
Sep*tem"par*tite, a. Etym: [L. septem seven + E. partite.]

Defn: Divided nearly to the base into seven parts; as, a
septempartite leaf.

SEPTEMTRIOUN
Sep*tem"tri*oun, n.

Defn: Septentrion. [Obs.]

SEPTEMVIR
Sep*tem"vir, n.; pl. E. Septemvirs, L. Septemviri. Etym: [L.
septemviri, pl.; septem seven + viri, pl. of vir man.] (Rom. Hist.)

Defn: One of a board of seven men associated in some office.

SEPTEMVIRATE
Sep*tem"vi*rate, n.Etym: [L. septemviratus.]

Defn: The office of septemvir; a government by septimvirs.

SEPTENARY
Sep"ten*a*ry, a. Etym: [L. septenairus, from septeni seven each,
septem seven: cf. F. septenaire. See Seven. ]

1. Consisting of, or relating to, seven; as, a septenary number. I.
Watts.

2. Lasting seven years; continuing seven years. "Septenary penance."
Fuller.

SEPTENARY
Sep"ten*a*ry, n.

Defn: The number seven. [R.] Holinshed.

SEPTENATE
Sep"ten*ate, a. Etym: [L. septeni seven each.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having parts in sevens; heptamerous.

SEPTENNATE
Sep*ten"nate, n. Etym: [F. septennat.]

Defn: A period of seven years; as, the septennate during which the
President of the French Republic holds office.

SEPTENNIAL
Sep*ten"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. septennium a period of seven years;
septem seven + annus year. See Seven, and Annual.]

1. Lasting or continuing seven years; as, septennial parliaments.

2. Happening or returning once in every seven years; as, septennial
elections in England.

SEPTENNIALLY
Sep*ten"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Once in seven years.

SEPTENTRIAL
Sep*ten"tri*al, a.

Defn: Septentrional. Drayton.

SEPTENTRIO
Sep*ten"tri*o, n. Etym: [L. See Septentrion.] (Astron.)

Defn: The constellation Ursa Major.

SEPTENTRION
Sep*ten"tri*on, n. Etym: [L. septentrio the northern regions, the
north, fr. septentriones the seven stars near the north pole, called
Charles's Wain, or the Great Bear, also those called the Little Bear;
properly, the seven plow oxen; septem seven + trio, orig., a plow ox:
cf. F. septentrion.]

Defn: The north or northern regions. Shak.
Both East West, South and Septentrioun. Chaucer.

SEPTENTRION; SEPTENTRIONAL
Sep*ten"tri*on, Sep*ten"tri*on*al, a. Etym: [L. septentrionalis: cf.
F. septentrional.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the north; northern. "From cold septentrion
blasts." Milton.

SEPTENTRIONALITY
Sep*ten`tri*on*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: Northerliness.

SEPTENTRIONALLY
Sep*ten"tri*on*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Northerly.

SEPTENTRIONATE
Sep*ten"tri*on*ate, v. i.

Defn: To tend or point toward the north; to north. Sir T. Browne.

SEPTET; SEPTETTE
Sep*tet", Sep*tette", n. Etym: [From L. septem seven, like duet, from
L. duo.]

1. A set of seven persons or objects; as, a septet of singers.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: A musical composition for seven instruments or seven voices; --
called also septuor.

SEPTFOIL
Sept"foil, n. Etym: [F. sept seven (L. septem) + E. foil leaf: cf. L.
septifolium.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A European herb, the tormentil. See Tormentil.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: An ornamental foliation having seven lobes. Cf. Cinquefoil,
Quarterfoil, and Trefoil.

3. (Eccl.Art.)

Defn: A typical figure, consisting of seven equal segments of a
circle, used to denote the gifts of the Holy Chost, the seven
sacraments as recognized by the Roman Catholic Church, etc. [R.]

SEPTI-
Sep"ti-, Etym: [L. septem seven.]

Defn: A combining form meaning seven; as, septifolious, seven-leaved;
septi-lateral, seven-sided.

SEPTIC
Sep"tic, a. Etym: [Septi- + -ic.] (Math.)

Defn: Of the seventh degree or order.
 -- n. (Alg.)

Defn: A quantic of the seventh degree.

SEPTIC; SEPTICAL
Sep"tic, Sep"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. septicus, Gr. septique.]

Defn: Having power to promote putrefaction.

SEPTIC
Sep"tic, n.

Defn: A substance that promotes putrefaction.

SEPTICAEMIA
Sep`ti*c?"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A poisoned condition of the blood produced by the absorption
into it of septic or putrescent material; blood poisoning. It is
marked by chills, fever, prostration, and inflammation of the
different serous membranes and of the lungs, kidneys, and other
organs.

SEPTICALLY
Sep"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a septic manner; in a manner tending to promote
putrefaction.

SEPTICIDAL
Sep"ti*ci`dal, a. Etym: [Septum + L. caedere to cut: cf. F.
septicide.] (Bot.)

Defn: Dividing the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence in
which a pod splits through the partitions and is divided into its
component carpels.

SEPTICITY
Sep*tic"i*ty, n. Etym: [See Septic.]

Defn: Tendency to putrefaction; septic quality.

SEPTIFARIOUS
Sep`ti*fa"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. septifariam sevenfold. Cf. Bifarious.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Turned in seven different ways.

SEPTIFEROUS
Sep*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Septum + -ferous: cf. F. septifere.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing a partition; -- said of the valves of a capsule.

SEPTIFEROUS
Sep*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [Gr. -ferous.]

Defn: Conveying putrid poison; as, the virulence of septiferous
matter.

SEPTIFLUOUS
Sep*tif"lu*ous, a. Etym: [CF. Septemfluous.]

Defn: Flowing in seven streams; septemfluous.

SEPTIFOLIOUS
Sep`ti*fo"li*ous, a. Etym: [Septi- + L. folium leaf.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having seven leaves.

SEPTIFORM
Sep"ti*form, a. Etym: [Septum + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a septum.

SEPTIFRAGAL
Sep*tif"ra*gal, a. Etym: [Septum + L. frangere, fractum, to break.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Breaking from the partitions; -- said of a method of dehiscence
in which the valves of a pod break away from the partitions, and
these remain attached to the common axis.

SEPTILATERAL
Sep`ti*lat"er*al, a. Etym: [Septi- + lateral.]

Defn: Having seven sides; as, a septilateral figure.

SEPTILLION
Sep*til"lion, n. Etym: [F. septilion, formed fr. L. septem seven, in
imitation of million.]

Defn: According to the French method of numeration (which is followed
also in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with
twenty-four ciphers annexed. According to the English method, the
number expressed by a unit with forty-two ciphers annexed. See
Numeration.

SEPTIMOLE
Sep"ti*mole, n. Etym: [L. septem seven.] (Mus.)

Defn: A group of seven notes to be played in the time of four or six.

SEPTINSULAR
Sep*tin"su*lar, a. Etym: [Septi- + insular.]

Defn: Consisting of seven islands; as, the septinsular republic of
the Ionian Isles.

SEPTISYLLABLE
Sep"ti*syl`la*ble, n. Etym: [Septi- + syllable.]

Defn: A word of seven syllables.

SEPTOIC
Sep*to"ic, a. Etym: [L. septem seven.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Heptoic. [R.]

SEPTOMAXILLARY
Sep`to*max"il*la*ry, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the nasal septum and the maxilla; situated
in the region of these parts.
 -- n.

Defn: A small bone between the nasal septum and the maxilla in many
reptiles and amphibians.

SEPTUAGENARIAN
Sep`tu*a*ge*na"ri*an, n.

Defn: A person who is seventy years of age; a septuagenary.

SEPTUAGENARY
Sep`tu*ag"e*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. septuagenarius, fr. septuageny
seventy each; akin to septuaginta seventy, septem seven. See Seven.]

Defn: Consisting of seventy; also, seventy years old.
 -- n.

Defn: A septuagenarian.

SEPTUAGESIMA
Sep`tu*a*ges"i*ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. septuagesimus the
seventieth, fr. septuaginta seventy.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The third Sunday before Lent; -- so called because it is about
seventy days before Easter.

SEPTUAGESIMAL
Sep`tu*a*ges"i*mal, a.

Defn: Consisting of seventy days, years, etc.; reckoned by seventies.
Our abridged and septuagesimal age. Sir T. Browne.

SEPTUAGINT
Sep"tu*a*gint, n. Etym: [From L. septuaginta seventy.]

Defn: A Greek version of the Old Testament; -- so called because it
was believed to be the work of seventy (or rather of seventy-two)
translators.

Note: The causes which produced it [the Septuagint], the number and
names of the translators, the times at which different portions were
translated, are all uncertain. The only point in which all agree is
that Alexandria was the birthplace of the version. On one other point
there is a near agreement, namely, as to time, that the version was
made, or at least commenced, in the time of the early Ptolemies, in
the first half of the third century b.c. Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.)
Septuagint chronology, the chronology founded upon the dates of the
Septuagint, which makes 1500 years more from the creation to Abraham
than the Hebrew Bible.

SEPTUARY
Sep"tu*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. septem seven.]

Defn: Something composed of seven; a week. [R.] Ash.

SEPTULATE
Sep"tu*late, a. Etym: [Dim. fr. septum.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having imperfect or spurious septa.

SEPTULUM
Sep"tu*lum, n.; pl. Septula. Etym: [NL., dim. of L. septum septum.]
(Anat.)

Defn: A little septum; a division between small cavities or parts.

SEPTUM
Sep"tum, n.; pl. Septa. Etym: [L. septum, saeptum, an inclosure,
hedge, fence, fr. sepire, saepire, to hedge in, inclose.]

1. A wall separating two cavities; a partition; as, the nasal septum.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: A partition that separates the cells of a fruit.

3. (Zool.)
(a) One of the radial calcareous plates of a coral.
(b) One of the transverse partitions dividing the shell of a mollusk,
or of a rhizopod, into several chambers. See Illust. under Nautilus.
(c) One of the transverse partitions dividing the body cavity of an
annelid.

SEPTUOR
Sep"tu*or, n. Etym: [F.] (Mus.)

Defn: A septet.

SEPTUPLE
Sep"tu*ple, a. Etym: [LL. septuplus; cf. Gr. septuple. Cf. Double,
Quadruple.]

Defn: Seven times as much; multiplied by seven; sevenfold.

SEPTUPLE
Sep"tu*ple, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Septupled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Septupling.]

Defn: To multiply by seven; to make sevenfold. Sir J. Herschel.

SEPULCHER; SEPULCHRE
Sep"ul*cher, Sep"ul*chre, n. Etym: [OE. sepulcre, OF. sepulcre, F.
sepulcre, fr. L. sepulcrum, sepulchrum, fr. sepelire to bury.]

Defn: The place in which the dead body of a human being is interred,
or a place set apart for that purpose; a grave; a tomb.
The stony entrance of this sepulcher. Shak.
The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was
yet dark, unto the sepulcher. John xx. 1.
A whited sepulcher. Fig.: Any person who is fair outwardly but
unclean or vile within. See Matt. xxiii.27.

SEPULCHER; SEPULCHRE
Sep"ul*cher, Sep"ul*chre, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sepulchered or
Sepulchred (; p. pr. & vb. n. Sepulchering or Sepulchring (.]

Defn: To bury; to inter; to entomb; as, obscurely sepulchered.
And so sepulchered in such pomp dost lie That kings for such a tomb
would wish to die. Milton.

SEPULCHRAL
Se*pul"chral, a. Etym: [L. sepulcralis: cf. F. sepulcral.]

1. Of or pertaining to burial, to the grave, or to monuments erected
to the memory of the dead; as, a sepulchral stone; a sepulchral
inscription.

2. Unnaturally low and grave; hollow in tone; -- said of sound,
especially of the voice.
This exaggerated dulling of the voice . . . giving what is commonly
called a sepulchral tone. H. Sweet.

SEPULTURE
Sep"ul*ture, n. Etym: [F. sepulture, L. sepultura, fr. sepelire,
sepultum, to bury.]

1. The act of depositing the dead body of a human being in the grave;
burial; interment.
Where we may royal sepulture prepare. Dryden.

2. A sepulcher; a grave; a place of burial.
Drunkeness that the horrible sepulture of man's reason. Chaucer.

SEQUACIOUS
Se*qua"cious, a. Etym: [L. sequax, -acis, fr. suquit to follow. See
Sue to follow. ]

1. Inclined to follow a leader; following; attendant.
Trees uprooted left their place, Sequacious of the lyre. Dryden.

2. Hence, ductile; malleable; pliant; manageable.
In the greater bodies the forge was easy, the matter being ductile
and sequacious. Ray.

3. Having or observing logical sequence; logically consistent and
rigorous; consecutive in development or transition of thought.
The scheme of pantheistic omniscience so prevalent among the
sequacious thinkers of the day. Sir W. Hamilton.
Milton was not an extensive or discursive thinker, as Shakespeare
was; for the motions of his mind were slow, solemn, and sequacious,
like those of the planets. De Quincey.

SEQUACIOUSNESS
Se*qua"cious*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being sequacious.

SEQUACITY
Se*quac"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. sequacitas.]

Defn: Quality or state of being sequacious; sequaciousness. Bacon.

SEQUEL
Se"quel, n. Etym: [L. sequela, fr. sequit to follow: cf. F. sequelle
a following. See Sue to follow.]

1. That which follows; a succeeding part; continuation; as, the
sequel of a man's advantures or history.
O, let me say no more! Gather the sequel by that went before. Shak.

2. Consequence; event; effect; result; as, let the sun cease, fail,
or swerve, and the sequel would be ruin.

3. Conclusion; inference. [R.] Whitgift.

SEQUELA
Se*que"la, n.; pl. Sequel?. Etym: [L., a follower, a result, from
sequit to follow.]

Defn: One who, or that which, follows. Specifically:
(a) An adherent, or a band or sect of adherents. "Coleridge and his
sequela." G. P. Marsh.
(b) That which follows as the logical result of reasoning; inference;
conclusion; suggestion.
Sequel?, or thoughts suggested by the preceding aphorisms. Coleridge.
(c) (Med.)

Defn: A morbid phenomenon left as the result of a disease; a disease
resulting from another.

SEQUENCE
Se"quence, n. Etym: [F. sequence, L. sequentia, fr. sequens. See
Sequent.]

1. The state of being sequent; succession; order of following;
arrangement.
How art thou a king But by fair sequence and succession Shak.
Sequence and series of the seasons of the year. Bacon.

2. That which follows or succeeds as an effect; sequel; consequence;
result.
The inevitable sequences of sin and punishment. Bp. Hall.

3. (Philos.)

Defn: Simple succession, or the coming after in time, without
asserting or implying causative energy; as, the reactions of chemical
agents may be conceived as merely invariable sequences.

4. (Mus.)
(a) Any succession of chords (or harmonic phrase) rising or falling
by the regular diatonic degrees in the same scale; a succession of
similar harmonic steps.
(b) A melodic phrase or passage successively repeated one tone
higher; a rosalia.

5. (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: A hymn introduced in the Mass on certain festival days, and
recited or sung immediately before the gospel, and after the gradual
or introit, whence the name. Bp. Fitzpatrick.
Originally the sequence was called a Prose, because its early form
was rhythmical prose. Shipley.

6. (Card Playing)
(a) (Whist) Three or more cards of the same suit in immediately
consecutive order of value; as, ace, king, and queen; or knave, ten,
nine, and eight.
(b) (Poker) All five cards, of a hand, in consecutive order as to
value, but not necessarily of the same suit; when of one suit, it is
called a sequence flush.

SEQUENT
Se"quent, a. Etym: [L. sequens, -entis, p. pr. of sequi to follow.
See Sue to follow.]

1. Following; succeeding; in continuance.
What to this was sequent Thou knowest already. Shak.

2. Following as an effect; consequent.

SEQUENT
Se"quent, n.

1. A follower. [R.] Shak.

2. That which follows as a result; a sequence.

SEQUENTIAL
Se*quen"tial, a.

Defn: Succeeding or following in order.
 -- Se*quen"tial*ly, adv.

SEQUESTER
Se*ques"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sequestered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sequestering.] Etym: [F. sequestrer, L. sequestrare to give up for
safe keeping, from sequester a depositary or trustee in whose hands
the thing contested was placed until the dispute was settled. Cf.
Sequestrate.]

1. (Law)

Defn: To separate from the owner for a time; to take from parties in
controversy and put into the possession of an indifferent person; to
seize or take possession of, as property belonging to another, and
hold it till the profits have paid the demand for which it is taken,
or till the owner has performed the decree of court, or clears
himself of contempt; in international law, to confiscate.
Formerly the goods of a defendant in chancery were, in the last
resort, sequestered and detained to enforce the decrees of the court.
And now the profits of a benefice are sequestered to pay the debts of
ecclesiastics. Blackstone.

2. To cause (one) to submit to the process of sequestration; to
deprive (one) of one's estate, property, etc.
It was his tailor and his cook, his fine fashions and his French
ragouts, which sequestered him. South.

3. To set apart; to put aside; to remove; to separate from other
things.
I had wholly sequestered my civil affairss. Bacon.

4. To cause to retire or withdraw into obscurity; to seclude; to
withdraw; -- often used reflexively.
When men most sequester themselves from action. Hooker.
A love and desire to sequester a man's self for a higher
conversation. Bacon.

SEQUESTER
Se*ques"ter, v. i.

1. To withdraw; to retire. [Obs.]
To sequester out of the world into Atlantic and Utopian politics.
Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: To renounce (as a widow may) any concern with the estate of her
husband.

SEQUESTER
Se*ques"ter, n.

1. Sequestration; separation. [R.]

2. (Law)

Defn: A person with whom two or more contending parties deposit the
subject matter of the controversy; one who mediates between two
parties; a mediator; an umpire or referee. Bouvier.

3. (Med.)

Defn: Same as Sequestrum.

SEQUESTERED
Se*ques"tered, a.

Defn: Retired; secluded. "Sequestered scenes." Cowper.
Along the cool, sequestered vale of life. Gray.

SEQUESTRABLE
Se*ques"tra*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being sequestered; subject or liable to
sequestration.

SEQUESTRAL
Se*ques"tral, a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sequestrum. Quian.

SEQUESTRATE
Se*ques"trate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sequestrated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sequestrating.]

Defn: To sequester.

SEQUESTRATION
Seq`ues*tra"tion, n. Etym: [L. sequestratio: cf. F. sequestration.]

1.
(a) (Civil & Com. Law) The act of separating, or setting aside, a
thing in controversy from the possession of both the parties that
contend for it, to be delivered to the one adjudged entitled to it.
It may be voluntary or involuntary.
(b) (Chancery) A prerogative process empowering certain commissioners
to take and hold a defendant's property and receive the rents and
profits thereof, until he clears himself of a contempt or performs a
decree of the court.
(c) (Eccl. Law) A kind of execution for a rent, as in the case of a
beneficed clerk, of the profits of a benefice, till he shall have
satisfied some debt established by decree; the gathering up of the
fruits of a benefice during a vacancy, for the use of the next
incumbent; the disposing of the goods, by the ordinary, of one who is
dead, whose estate no man will meddle with. Craig. Tomlins. Wharton.
(d) (Intrnat. Law) The seizure of the property of an individual for
the use of the state; particularly applied to the seizure, by a
belligerent power, of debts due from its subjects to the enemy.
Burrill.

2. The state of being separated or set aside; separation; retirement;
seclusion from society.
Since Henry Monmouth first began to reign, . . . This loathsome
sequestration have I had. Shak.

3. Disunion; disjunction. [Obs.] Boyle.

SEQUESTRATOR
Seq"ues*tra`tor, n. Etym: [L., one that hinders or impedes.] (Law)
(a) One who sequesters property, or takes the possession of it for a
time, to satisfy a demand out of its rents or profits.
(b) One to whom the keeping of sequestered property is committed.

SEQUESTRUM
Se*ques"trum, n.; pl. Sequestra. Etym: [NL. See Sequester.] (Med.)

Defn: A portion of dead bone which becomes separated from the sound
portion, as in necrosis.

SEQUIN
Se"quin, n. Etym: [F. sequin, It. zecchino, from zecca the mint, fr.
Ar. sekkah, sikkah, a die, a stamp. Cf. Zechin.]

Defn: An old gold coin of Italy and Turkey. It was first struck at
Venice about the end of the 13th century, and afterward in the other
Italian cities, and by the Levant trade was introduced into Turkey.
It is worth about 9s. 3d. sterling, or about $2.25. The different
kinds vary somewhat in value. [Written also chequin, and zequin.]

SEQUOIA
Se*quoi"a, n. Etym: [NL. So called by Dr. Endlicher in honor of
Sequoyah, who invented the Cherokee alphabet.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of coniferous trees, consisting of two species, Sequoia
Washingtoniana, syn. S. gigantea, the "big tree" of California, and
S. sempervirens, the redwood, both of which attain an immense height.

SEQUOIENE
Se*quoi"ene, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A hydrocarbon (C13H10) obtained in white fluorescent crystals,
in the distillation products of the needles of the California "big
tree" (Sequoia gigantea).

SERAC
Se`rac", n. [F. (in the Alps), orig., a kind of solid cheese.]

Defn: A pinnacle of ice among the crevasses of a glacier; also, one
of the blocks into which a glacier breaks on a steep grade.

SERAGLIO
Se*ragl"io, n. Etym: [It. serraglio, originally, an inclosure of
palisades, afterwards also, a palace, seraglio (by confusion with
Per. sera\'8ba a palace, an entirely different word), fr. serrare to
shut, fr. LL. serra a bar for fastening doors, L. sera. See Serry,
Series.]

1. An inclosure; a place of separation. [Obs.]
I went to the Ghetto, where the Jews dwell as in a suburb, by
themselves. I passed by the piazza Judea, where their seraglio
begins. Evelyn.

2. The palace of the Grand Seignior, or Turkish sultan, at
Constantinople, inhabited by the sultan himself, and all the officers
and dependents of his court. In it are also kept the females of the
harem.

3. A harem; a place for keeping wives or concubines; sometimes,
loosely, a place of licentious pleasure; a house of debauchery.

SERAI
Se*ra"i, n. Etym: [Per. sera\'8b, or sarai, a palace, a king's court,
a seraglio, an inn. Cf. Caravansary.]

Defn: A palace; a seraglio; also, in the East, a place for the
accommodation of travelers; a caravansary, or rest house.

SERALBUMEN
Ser`al*bu"men, n. (Physiol. CHem.)

Defn: Serum albumin.

SERANG
Se*rang", n. Etym: [Per. sarhang a commander.]

Defn: The boatswain of a Lascar or East Ondian crew.

SERAPE
Se*ra"pe, n. Etym: [Sp. Amer. sarape.]

Defn: A blanket or shawl worn as an outer garment by the Spanish
Americans, as in Mexico.

SERAPH
Ser"aph, n.; pl. E. Seraphs, Heb. Seraphim. Etym: [Heb. seraphim,
pl.]

Defn: One of an order of celestial beings, each having three pairs of
wings. In ecclesiastical art and in poetry, a seraph is represented
as one of a class of angels. Isa. vi. 2.
As full, as perfect, in vile man that mourns, As the rapt seraph that
adores and burns. Pope.
Seraph moth (Zool.), any one of numerous species of geometrid moths
of the genus Lobophora, having the hind wings deeply bilobed, so that
they seem to have six wings.

SERAPHIC; SERAPHICAL
Se*raph"ic, Se*raph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Cf. F. seraphique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a seraph; becoming, or suitable to, a
seraph; angelic; sublime; pure; refined. "Seraphic arms and
trophies." Milton. "Seraphical fervor." Jer. Taylor.
 -- Se*raph"ic*al*ly, adv.
 -- Se*raph"ic*al*ness, n.

SERAPHICISM
Se*raph"i*cism, n.

Defn: The character, quality, or state of a seraph; seraphicalness.
[R.] Cudworth.

SERAPHIM
Ser"a*phim, n.

Defn: The Hebrew plural of Seraph. Cf. Cherubim.

Note: The double plural form seraphims is sometimes used, as in the
King James version of the Bible, Isa. vi. 2 and 6.

SERAPHINA
Ser`a*phi"na, n. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: A seraphine.

SERAPHINE
Ser"a*phine, n. Etym: [From Seraph.] (Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument whose sounding parts are reeds, consisting of
a thin tongue of brass playing freely through a slot in a plate. It
has a case, like a piano, and is played by means of a similar
keybord, the bellows being worked by the foot. The melodeon is a
portable variety of this instrument.

SERAPIS
Se*ra"pis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Myth.)

Defn: An Egyptian deity, at first a symbol of the Nile, and so of
fertility; later, one of the divinities of the lower world. His
worship was introduced into Greece and Rome.

SERASKIER
Se*ras"kier, n. Etym: [Turk., fr. Per. ser head, chief + Ar. 'asker
an army.]

Defn: A general or commander of land forces in the Turkish empire;
especially, the commander-in-chief of minister of war.

SERASKIERATE
Se*ras"kier*ate, n.

Defn: The office or authority of a seraskier.

SERBONIAN
Ser*bo"ni*an, a.

Defn: Relating to the lake of Serbonis in Egypt, which by reason of
the sand blowing into it had a deceptive appearance of being solid
land, but was a bog.
A gulf profound as that Serbonian bog . . . Where armies whole have
sunk. Milton.

SERE
Sere, a.

Defn: Dry; withered. Same as Sear.
But with its sound it shook the sails That were so thin and sere.
Coleridge.

SERE
Sere, n. Etym: [F. serre.]

Defn: Claw; talon. [Obs.] Chapman.

SEREIN
Se*rein", n. Etym: [F. Cf. Serenade, n.] (Meteorol.)

Defn: A mist, or very fine rain, which sometimes falls from a clear
sky a few moments after sunset. Tyndall.

SERENADE
Ser`*enade", n. Etym: [F. serenade, It. serenata, probably fr. L.
serenus serene (cf. Serene), misunderstood as a derivative fr. L.
serus late. Cf. Soiree.] (Mus.)
(a) Music sung or performed in the open air at nights; -- usually
applied to musical entertainments given in the open air at night,
especially by gentlemen, in a spirit of gallantry, under the windows
of ladies.
(b) A piece of music suitable to be performed at such times.

SERENADE
Ser`e*nade", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Serenaded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Serenading.]

Defn: To entertain with a serenade.

SERENADE
Ser`e*nade", v. i.

Defn: To perform a serenade.

SERENADER
Ser`e*nad"er, n.

Defn: One who serenades.

SERENATA; SERENATE
Ser`e*na"ta, Ser"e*nate, n. Etym: [It. serenata. See Serenade.]
(Mus.)

Defn: A piece of vocal music, especially one on an amoreus subject; a
serenade.
Or serenate, which the starved lover sings To his pround fair.
Milton.

Note: The name serenata was given by Italian composers in the time of
Handel, and by Handel himself, to a cantata of a pastoreal of
dramatic character, to a secular ode, etc.; also by Mozart and others
to an orchectral composition, in several movements, midway between
the suite of an earlier period and the modern symphony. Grove.

SERENE
Se*rene", a. Etym: [L. serenus to grow dry, Gr.

1. Bright; clear; unabscured; as, a serene sky.
The moon serene in glory mounts the sky. Pope.
Full many a gem of purest ray serene The dark unfathomed caves of
ocean bear. Gray.

2. Calm; placid; undisturbed; unruffled; as, a serene aspect; a
serene soul. Milton.

Note: In several countries of Europe, Serene is given as a tittle to
princes and the members of their families; as, His Serene Highness.
Drop serene. (Med.) See Amaurosis. Milton.

SERENE
Se*rene", n.

1. Serenity; clearness; calmness. [Poetic.] "The serene of heaven."
Southey.
To their master is denied To share their sweet serene. Young.

2. Etym: [F. serein evening dew or damp. See Serein.]

Defn: Evening air; night chill. [Obs.] "Some serene blast me." B.
Jonson.

SERENE
Se*rene", v. t. Etym: [L. serenare.]

Defn: To make serene.
Heaven and earth, as if contending, vie To raise his being, and
serene his soul. Thomson.

SERENELY
Se*rene"ly, adv.

1. In a serene manner; clearly.
Now setting Phoebus shone serenely bright. Pope.

2. With unruffled temper; coolly; calmly. Prior.

SERENENESS
Se*rene"ness, n.

Defn: Serenity. Feltham.

SERENITUDE
Se*ren"i*tude, n.

Defn: Serenity. [Obs.]

SERENITY
Se*ren"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. serenuas: cf. F. serenite.]

1. The quality or state of being serene; clearness and calmness;
quietness; stillness; peace.
A general peace and serenity newly succeeded a general trouble. Sir
W. Temple.

2. Calmness of mind; eveness of temper; undisturbed state; coolness;
composure.
I can not see how any men should ever transgress those moral rules
with confidence and serenity. Locke.

Note: Serenity is given as a title to the members of certain princely
families in Europe; as, Your Serenity.

SERF
Serf, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. serus servant, slave; akin to servare to
protect, preserve, observe, and perhaps originally, a client, a man
under one's protection. Cf. Serve, v. t.]

Defn: A servant or slave employed in husbandry, and in some countries
attached to the soil and transferred with it, as formerly in Russia.
In England, at least from the reign of Henry II, one only, and that
the inferior species [of villeins], existed . . . But by the customs
of France and Germany, persons in this abject state seem to have been
called serfs, and distinguished from villeins, who were only bound to
fixed payments and duties in respect of their lord, though, as it
seems, without any legal redress if injured by him. Hallam.

Syn.
 -- Serf, Slave. A slave is the absolute property of his master, and
may be sold in any way. A serf, according to the strict sense of the
term, is one bound to work on a certain estate, and thus attached to
the soil, and sold with it into the service of whoever purchases the
land.

SERFAGE; SERFDOM
Serf"age, Serf"dom, n.

Defn: The state or condition of a serf.

SERFHOOD; SERFISM
Serf"hood, Serf"ism (, n.

Defn: Serfage.

SERGE
Serge, n. Etym: [F. serge, sarge, originally, a silken stuff, fr. L.
serica, f. or neut. pl. of sericus silken. See Sericeous, Silk.]

Defn: A woolen twilled stuff, much used as material for clothing for
both sexes. Silk serge, a twilled silk fabric used mostly by tailors
for lining parts of gentlemen's coats.

SERGE
Serge, n. Etym: [F. cierge.]

Defn: A large wax candle used in the ceremonies of various churches.

SERGEANCY
Ser"gean*cy, n.; pl. Sergeancies. Etym: [Cf. Sergeanty.]

Defn: The office of a sergeant; sergeantship. [Written also
serjeancy.]

SERGEANT
Ser"geant, n. Etym: [F. sergent, fr. L. serviens, -entis, p. pr. of
servire to serve. See Serve, and cf. Servant.] [Written also
serjeant. Both spellings are authorized. In England serjeant is
usually preferred, except for military officers. In the United States
sergeant is common for civil officers also.]

1. Formerly, in England, an officer nearly answering to the more
modern bailiff of the hundred; also, an officer whose duty was to
attend on the king, and on the lord high steward in court, to arrest
traitors and other offenders. He is now called sergeant-at-arms, and
two of these officers, by allowance of the sovereign, attend on the
houses of Parliament (one for each house) to execute their commands,
and another attends the Court Chancery.
The sergeant of the town of Rome them sought. Chaucer.
The magistrates sent the serjeant, saying, Let those men go. Acts
xvi. 35.
This fell sergeant, Death, Is strict in his arrest. Shak.

2. (Mil.) In a company, battery, or troop, a noncommissioned officer
next in rank above a corporal, whose duty is to instruct recruits in
discipline, to form the ranks, etc.

Note: In the United States service, besides the sergeants belonging
to the companies there are, in each regiment, a sergeant major, who
is the chief noncommissioned officer, and has important duties as the
assistant to the adjutant; a quartermaster sergeant, who assists the
quartermaster; a color sergeant, who carries the colors; and a
commissary sergeant, who assists in the care and distribution of the
stores. Ordnance sergeants have charge of the ammunition at military
posts.

3. (Law)

Defn: A lawyer of the highest rank, answering to the doctor of the
civil law; -- called also serjeant at law. [Eng.] Blackstone.

4. A title sometimes given to the servants of the sovereign; as,
sergeant surgeon, that is, a servant, or attendant, surgeon. [Eng.]

5. (Zool.)

Defn: The cobia. Drill sergeant. (Mil.) See under Drill.
 -- Sergeant-at-arms, an officer of a legislative body, or of a
deliberative or judicial assembly, who executes commands in
preserving order and arresting offenders. See Sergeant, 1.
 -- Sergeant major. (a) (Mil.) See the Note under def. 2, above. (b)
(Zool.) The cow pilot.

SERGEANTCY
Ser"geant*cy, n.

Defn: Same as Sergeancy.

SERGEANTRY
Ser"geant*ry, n. Etym: [CF. OF. sergenteric.]

Defn: See Sergeanty. [R.] [Written also serjeantry.]

SERGEANTSHIP
Ser"geant*ship, n.

Defn: The office of sergeant.

SERGEANTY
Ser"geant*y, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. sergentie, LL. sergentia. See
Sergeant.] (Eng. Law)

Defn: Tenure of lands of the crown by an honorary kind of service not
due to any lord, but to the king only. [Written also serjeanty.]
Grand sergeanty, a particular kind of tenure by which the tenant was
bound to do some special honorary service to the king in person, as
to carry his banner, his sword, or the like. Tomlins. Cowell.
Blackstone.
 -- Petit sergeanty. See under Petit.

SERIAL
Se"ri*al, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a series; consisting of a series; appearing in
successive parts or numbers; as, a serial work or publication.
"Classification . . . may be more or less serial." H. Spencer.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to rows. Gray. Serial homology. (Biol.) See
under Homology.
 -- Serial symmetry. (Biol.) See under Symmetry.

SERIAL
Se"ri*al, n.

Defn: A publication appearing in a series or succession of part; a
tale, or other writing, published in successive numbers of a
periodical.

SERIALITY
Se`ri*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of succession in a series; sequence. H.
Spenser.

SERIALLY
Se"ri*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a series, or regular order; in a serial manner; as, arranged
serially; published serially.

SERIATE
Se"ri*ate, a.

Defn: Arranged in a series or succession; pertaining to a series.
 -- Se"ri*ate*ly, adv.

SERIATIM
Se`ri*a"tim, adv. Etym: [NL.]

Defn: In regular order; one after the other; severally.

SERIATION
Se`ri*a"tion, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Arrangement or position in a series.

SERICEOUS
Se*ri"ceous, a. Etym: [L. sericus silken, sericum Seric stuff, silk,
fr. Sericus belonging to the Seres, Gr. Silk, Serge a woolen stuff.]

1. Of or pertaining to silk; consisting of silk; silky.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Covered with very soft hairs pressed close to the surface; as,
a sericeous leaf.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a silklike luster, usually due to fine, close hairs.

SERICIN
Ser"i*cin, n. Etym: [L. sericus silken.] (Chem.)

Defn: A gelatinous nitrogenous material extracted from crude silk and
other similar fiber by boiling water; -- called also silk gelatin.

SERICITE
Ser"i*cite, n. Etym: [L. sericus silken.] (Min.)

Defn: A kind of muscovite occuring in silky scales having a fibrous
structure. It is characteristic of sericite schist.

SERICTERIUM
Ser`ic*te"ri*um, n. Etym: [See Sericeous.] (Zool.)

Defn: A silk gland, as in the silkworms.

SERICULTURE
Ser"i*cul`ture, n. Etym: [See Sericeous, and Culture.]

Defn: The raising of silkworms.

SERIE
Se"rie, n. Etym: [Cf. F. serie.]

Defn: Series. [Obs.]

SERIEMA
Ser`i*e"ma, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Zool.)

Defn: A large South American bird (Dicholophus, or Cariama cristata)
related to the cranes. It is often domesticated. Called also cariama.

SERIES
Se"ries, n. Etym: [L. series, fr. serere, sertum, to join or bind
together; cf. Gr. sarit thread. Cf. Assert, Desert a solitude, Exert,
Insert, Seraglio.]

1. A number of things or events standing or succeeding in order, and
connected by a like relation; sequence; order; course; a succession
of things; as, a continuous series of calamitous events.
During some years his life a series of triumphs. Macaulay.

2. (Biol.)

Defn: Any comprehensive group of animals or plants including several
subordinate related groups.

Note: Sometimes a series includes several classes; sometimes only
orders or families; in other cases only species.

3. (Math.)

Defn: An indefinite number of terms succeeding one another, each of
which is derived from one or more of the preceding by a fixed law,
called the law of the series; as, an arithmetical series; a
geometrical series.

SERIES DYNAMO
Series dynamo. (Elec.)
 (a) A series-wound dynamo.
 (b) A dynamo running in series with another or others.

SERIES MOTOR
Series motor. (Elec.)
 (a) A series-wound motor.
 (b) A motor capable of being used in a series circuit.

SERIES TURNS
Series turns. (Elec.)

Defn: The turns in a series circuit.

SERIES WINDING
Series winding. (Elec.)

Defn: A winding in which the armature coil and the field-magnet coil
are in series with the external circuits; -- opposed to shunt
winding. --Se"ries-wound`, a.

SERIGRAPH
Ser`i*graph, n. [L. sericum silk + E. -graph.]

Defn: An autographic device to test the strength of raw silk.

SERIN
Ser"in, n. Etym: [F. serin.] (Zool.)

Defn: A European finch (Serinus hortulanus) closely related to the
canary.

SERINE
Ser"ine, n. Etym: [L. sericus silken.] (Chem.)

Defn: A white crystalline nitrogenous substance obtained by the
action of dilute sulphuric acid on silk gelatin.

SERIO-COMIC; SERIO-COMICAL
Se`ri*o-com"ic, Se`ri*o-com"ic*al, a.

Defn: Having a mixture of seriousness and sport; serious and comical.

SERIOUS
Se"ri*ous, a. Etym: [L. serius: cf. F. serieux, LL. seriosus.]

1. Grave in manner or disposition; earnest; thoughtful; solemn; not
light, gay, or volatile.
He is always serious, yet there is about his manner a graceful ease.
Macaulay.

2. Really intending what is said; being in earnest; not jesting or
deceiving. Beaconsfield.

3. Important; weighty; not trifling; grave.
The holy Scriptures bring to our ears the most serious things in the
world. Young.

4. Hence, giving rise to apprehension; attended with danger; as, a
serious injury.

Syn.
 -- Grave; solemn; earnest; sedate; important; weighty. See Grave.
 -- Se"ri*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Se"ri*ous*ness, n.

SERIPH
Ser"iph, n. (Type Founding)

Defn: See Ceriph.

SERJEANT; SERJEANTCY
Ser"jeant, Ser"jeant*cy, etc.

Defn: See Sergeant, Sergeantcy, etc. Serjeant-at-arms. See Sergeant-
at-arms, under Sergeant.

SERMOCINATION
Ser*moc`i*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. sermocinatio. See Sermon.]

Defn: The making of speeches or sermons; sermonizing. [Obs.] Peacham.

SERMOCINATOR
Ser*moc"i*na`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who makes sermons or speeches. [Obs.] Howell.

SERMON
Ser"mon, n. Etym: [OE. sermoun, sermun, F. sermon, fr. L. sermo, -
onis, a speaking, discourse, probably fr. serer, sertum, to join,
connect; hence, a connected speech. See Series.]

1. A discourse or address; a talk; a writing; as, the sermens of
Chaucer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Specifically, a discourse delivered in public, usually by a
clergyman, for the purpose of religious instruction and grounded on
some text or passage of Scripture.
This our life exempt from public haunts Finds tongues in trees, books
in the running brooks, Sermons in stones and good in everything.
Shak.
His preaching much, but more his practice, wrought, A living sermon
of the truths he taught. Dryden.

3. Hence, a serious address; a lecture on one's conduct or duty; an
exhortation or reproof; a homily; -- often in a depreciatory sense.

SERMON
Ser"mon, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OF. sermoner, F. sermonner to lecture one.]

Defn: To speak; to discourse; to compose or deliver a sermon. [Obs.]
Holinshed.
What needeth it to sermon of it more Chaucer.

SERMON
Ser"mon, v. t.

1. To discourse to or of, as in a sermon. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. To tutor; to lecture. [Poetic] Shak.

SERMONEER
Ser`mon*eer", n.

Defn: A sermonizer. B. Jonson.

SERMONER
Ser"mon*er, n.

Defn: A preacher; a sermonizer. [Derogative or Jocose.] Thackeray.

SERMONET
Ser`mon*et", n.

Defn: A short sermon. [Written also sermonette.]

SERMONIC; SERMONICAL
Ser*mon"ic, Ser*mon"ic*al, a.

Defn: Like, or appropriate to, a sermon; grave and didactic. [R.]
"Conversation . . . satirical or sermonic." Prof. Wilson. "Sermonical
style." V. Knox.

SERMONING
Ser"mon*ing, n.

Defn: The act of discoursing; discourse; instruction; preaching.
[Obs.] Chaucer.

SERMONISH
Ser"mon*ish, a.

Defn: Resembling a sermon. [R.]

SERMONIST
Ser"mon*ist, n.

Defn: See Sermonizer.

SERMONIZE
Ser"mon*ize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sermonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sermonizing.]

1. To compose or write a sermon or sermons; to preach.

2. To inculcate rigid rules. [R.] Chesterfield.

SERMONIZE
Ser"mon*ize, v. t.

Defn: To preach or discourse to; to affect or influence by means of a
sermon or of sermons. [R.]
Which of us shall sing or sermonize the other fast asleep Landor.

SERMONIZER
Ser"mon*i`zer, n.

Defn: One who sermonizes.

SEROLIN
Ser"o*lin, n. Etym: [Serum + L. oleum oil.] (Physiol. Chem.)
(a) A peculiar fatty substance found in the blood, probably a mixture
of fats, cholesterin, etc.
(b) A body found in fecal matter and thought to be formed in the
intestines from the cholesterin of the bile; -- called also
stercorin, and stercolin.

SERON; SEROON
Se*ron", Se*roon", n. Etym: [Sp. seron a kind of hamper or pannier,
aug. of sera a large pannier or basket.]

Defn: Same as Ceroon.

Note: This word as expressing a quantity or weight has no definite
signification. McElrath.

SEROSE
Se"rose`, a.

Defn: Serous. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

SEROSITY
Se*ros"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. serosite. See Serous.]

1. The quality or state of being serous.

2. (Physiol.)

Defn: A thin watery animal fluid, as synovial fluid and pericardial
fluid.

SEROTHERAPY
Se`ro*ther"a*py, n. (Med.)
 (a) Serum-therapy.
 (b) The whey cure.

SEROTINE
Ser"o*tine, n. Etym: [F. serotine, fr. L. serotinus that comes or
happens late.] (Zool.)

Defn: The European long-eared bat (Vesperugo serotinus).

SEROTINOUS
Se*rot"i*nous, a. Etym: [L. serotinus, fr. serus late.] (Biol.)

Defn: Appearing or blossoming later in the season than is customary
with allied species.

SEROUS
Se"rous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sereux. See Serum.] (Physiol.)
(a) Thin; watery; like serum; as the serous fluids.
(b) Of or pertaining to serum; as, the serous glands, membranes,
layers. See Serum. Serous membrane. (Anat.) See under Membrane.

SEROW; SURROW
Ser"ow, Sur"row, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The thar.

SERPENS
Ser"pens, n. Etym: [L. See Serpent.] (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation represented as a serpent held by Serpentarius.

SERPENT
Ser"pent, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. serpens, -entis (sc. bestia), fr.
serpens, p. pr. of serpere to creep; akin to Gr. sarp, and perhaps to
L. repere, E. reptile. Cf. Herpes.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any reptile of the order Ophidia; a snake, especially a large
snake. See Illust. under Ophidia.

Note: The serpents are mostly long and slender, and move partly by
bending the body into undulations or folds and pressing them against
objects, and partly by using the free edges of their ventral scales
to cling to rough surfaces. Many species glide swiftly over the
ground, some burrow in the earth, others live in trees. A few are
entirely aquatic, and swim rapidly. See Ophidia, and Fang.

2. Fig.: A subtle, treacherous, malicious person.

3. A species of firework having a serpentine motion as it passess
through the air or along the ground.

4. (Astron.)

Defn: The constellation Serpens.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: A bass wind instrument, of a loud and coarse tone, formerly
much used in military bands, and sometimes introduced into the
orchestra; -- so called from its form. Pharaoh's serpent (Chem.),
mercuric sulphocyanate, a combustible white substance which in
burning gives off a poisonous vapor and leaves a peculiar brown
voluminous residue which is expelled in a serpentine from. It is
employed as a scientific toy.
 -- Serpent cucumber (Bot.), the long, slender, serpentine fruit of
the cucurbitaceous plant Trichosanthes colubrina; also, the plant
itself.
 -- Serpent eage (Zool.), any one of several species of raptorial
birds of the genera Circaetus and Spilornis, which prey on serpents.
They inhabit Africa, Southern Europe, and India. The European serpent
eagle is Circaetus Gallicus.
 -- Serpent eater. (Zool.) (a) The secretary bird. (b) An Asiatic
antelope; the markhoor.
 -- Serpent fish (Zool.), a fish (Cepola rubescens) with a long,
thin, compressed body, and a band of red running lengthwise.
 -- Serpent star (Zool.), an ophiuran; a brittle star.
 -- Serpent's tongue (Paleon.), the fossil tooth of a shark; -- so
called from its resemblance to a tongue with its root.
 -- Serpent withe (Bot.), a West Indian climbing plant (Aristolochia
odoratissima).
 -- Tree serpent (Zool.), any species of African serpents belonging
to the family Dendrophid?.

SERPENT
Ser"pent, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Serpented; p. pr. & vb. n. Serpenting.]

Defn: To wind like a serpent; to crook about; to meander. [R.] "The
serpenting of the Thames." Evelyn.

SERPENT
Ser"pent, v. t.

Defn: To wind; to encircle. [R.] Evelyn.

SERPENTARIA
Ser`pen*ta"ri*a, a.Etym: [L. (sc. herba), fr. serpens serpent.]
(Med.)

Defn: The fibrous aromatic root of the Virginia snakeroot
(Aristolochia Serpentaria).

SERPENTARIUS
Ser`pen*ta"ri*us, n.Etym: [NL., fr. L. serpens serpent.] (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation on the equator, lying between Scorpio and
Hercules; -- called also Ophiuchus.

SERPENTIFORM
Ser*pen"ti*form, a. Etym: [L. serpens a serpent + -form.]

Defn: Having the form of a serpent.

SERPENTIGENOUS
Ser`pen*tig"e*nous, a. Etym: [L. serpens, -entis, a serpent + -
genous: cf. L. serpentigena.]

Defn: Bred of a serpent.

SERPENTINE
Ser"pen*tine, a. Etym: [L. serpentinus: cf. F. serpentin.]

Defn: Resembling a serpent; having the shape or qualities of a
serpent; subtle; winding or turning one way and the other, like a
moving serpent; anfractuous; meandering; sinuous; zigzag; as,
serpentine braid.
Thy shape Like his, and color serpentine. Milton.

SERPENTINE
Ser"pen*tine, n. Etym: [Cf. (for sense 1) F. serpentine, (for sense
2) serpentin.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: A mineral or rock consisting chiefly of the hydrous silicate of
magnesia. It is usually of an obscure green color, often with a
spotted or mottled appearance resembling a serpent's skin. Precious,
or noble, serpentine is translucent and of a rich oil-green color.

Note: Serpentine has been largely produced by the alteration of other
minerals, especially of chrysolite.

2. (Ordnance)

Defn: A kind of ancient cannon.

SERPENTINE
Ser"pen*tine, v. i.

Defn: To serpentize. [R.] Lyttleton.

SERPENTINELY
Ser"pen*tine*ly, adv.

Defn: In a serpentine manner.

SERPENTINIAN
Ser`pen*tin"i*an, n. (Eccl.)

Defn: See 2d Ophite.

SERPENTINIZE
Ser"pen*tin*ize, v. t. (Min.)

Defn: To convert (a magnesian silicate) into serpentine.
 -- Ser`pen*tin`i*za"tion, n.

SERPENTINOUS
Ser"pen*ti`nous, a.

Defn: Relating to, or like, serpentine; as, a rock serpentinous in
character.

SERPENTIZE
Ser"pent*ize, v. i.

Defn: To turn or bend like a serpent, first in one direction and then
in the opposite; to meander; to wind; to serpentine. [R.]
The river runs before the door, and serpentizes more than you can
conceive. Walpole.

SERPENTRY
Ser"pent*ry, n.

1. A winding like a serpent's.

2. A place inhabited or infested by serpents.

SERPENT-TONGUED
Ser"pent-tongued`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a forked tongue, like a serpent.

SERPET
Ser"pet, n. Etym: [L. sirpus, scirpus, a rush, bulrush.]

Defn: A basket. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

SERPETTE
Ser*pette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A pruning knife with a curved blade. Knight.

SERPIGINOUS
Ser*pig"i*nous, a. Etym: [Cf. F. serpigineux.] (Med.)

Defn: Creeping; -- said of lesions which heal over one portion while
continuing to advance at another.

SERPIGO
Ser*pi"go, n. Etym: [LL., fr. L. serpere to creep.] (Med.)

Defn: A dry, scaly eruption on the skin; especially, a ringworm.

SERPOLET
Ser"po*let, n. Etym: [F.] (Bot.)

Defn: Wild thyme.

SERPULA
Ser"pu*la, n.; pl. Serpul?, E. Serpulas. Etym: [L., a little snake.
See Serpent.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of tubicolous annelids of the genus
Serpula and allied genera of the family Serpulid?. They secrete a
calcareous tube, which is usually irregularly contorted, but is
sometimes spirally coiled. The worm has a wreath of plumelike and
often bright-colored gills around its head, and usually an operculum
to close the aperture of its tube when it retracts.

SERPULIAN; SERPULIDAN
Ser*pu"li*an, Ser*pu"li*dan, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A serpula.

SERPULITE
Ser"pu*lite, n.

Defn: A fossil serpula shell.

SERR
Serr, v. t. Etym: [F. serrer. See Serry.]

Defn: To crowd, press, or drive together. [Obs.] Bacon.

SERRANOID
Ser*ra"noid, n. Etym: [NL. Serranus, a typical genus (fr. L. serra a
saw) + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any fish of the family Serranid?, which includes the striped
bass, the black sea bass, and many other food fishes.
 -- a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Serranid?.

SERRATE; SERRATED
Ser"rate, Ser"ra*ted, a. Etym: [L. serratus, fr. serra a saw; perhaps
akin to secare to cut, E. saw a cutting instrument. Cf. Sierra.]

1. Notched on the edge, like a saw.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Beset with teeth pointing forwards or upwards; as, serrate
leaves. Doubly serrate, having small serratures upon the large ones,
as the leaves of the elm.
 -- Serrate-ciliate, having fine hairs, like the eyelashes, on the
serratures; -- said of a leaf.
 -- Serrate-dentate, having the serratures toothed.

SERRATION
Ser*ra"tion, n.

1. Condition of being serrate; formation in the shape of a saw.

2. One of the teeth in a serrate or serrulate margin.

SERRATIROSTRAL
Ser*ra`ti*ros"tral, a. Etym: [Serrate + rostral.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having a toothed bill, like that of a toucan.

SERRATOR
Ser*ra"tor, n. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: The ivory gull (Larus eburneus).

SERRATURE
Ser"ra*ture, n. Etym: [L. serratura a sawing, fr. serrare to saw.]

1. A notching, like that between the teeth of a saw, in the edge of
anything. Martyn.

2. One of the teeth in a serrated edge; a serration.

SERRICATED
Ser"ri*ca`ted, a. Etym: [See Sericeous.]

Defn: Covered with fine silky down.

SERRICORN
Ser"ri*corn, a. Etym: [L. serra saw + cornu horn.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having serrated antenn

SERRICORN
Ser"ri*corn, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of a numerous tribe of beetles (Serricornia). The
joints of the antenn? are prominent, thus producing a serrate
appearance. See Illust. under Antenna.

SERRIED
Ser"ried, a. Etym: [See Serry.]

Defn: Crowded; compact; dense; pressed together.
Nor seemed it to relax their serried files. Milton.

SERRIFERA
Ser*rif"e*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. L. serra saw + ferre to bear.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A division of Hymenoptera comprising the sawflies.

SERRIROSTRES
Ser`ri*ros"tres, n. pl. Etym: [NL. fr. L. serra saw + rostrum beak.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Same as Lamellirostres.

SERROUS
Ser"rous, a. Etym: [L. serra a saw.]

Defn: Like the teeth off a saw; jagged. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SERRULA
Ser"ru*la, n. Etym: [L., a little saw.] (Zool.)

Defn: The red-breasted merganser.

SERRULATE; SERRULATED
Ser"rulate, Ser"ru*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. serrula a lttle saw, dim. of
serra a saw.]

Defn: Finely serrate; having very minute teeth.

SERRULATION
Ser`ru*la"tion, n.

1. The state of being notched minutely, like a fine saw. Wright.

2. One of the teeth in a serrulate margin.

SERRY
Ser"ry, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Serried; p. pr. & vb. n. Serrying.] Etym:
[F. serrer, LL. serrare, serare, from L. sera a bar, bolt; akin to
serere to join or bind together. See Serries.]

Defn: To crowd; to press together.

Note: [Now perhaps only in the form serried, p. p. or a.]

SERTULARIA
Ser`tu*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., dim. fr. L. serta a garland.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of delicate branching hydroids having small sessile
hydrothec? along the sides of the branches.

SERTULARIAN
Ser`tu*la"ri*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of Sertularia, or of Sertularid?, a family of
hydroids having branched chitinous stems and simple sessile
hydrothec?. Also used adjectively.

SERUM
Se"rum, n. Etym: [L., akin to Gr. sara curd.] (Physiol.)
(a) The watery portion of certain animal fluids, as blood, milk, etc.
(b) A thin watery fluid, containing more or less albumin, secreted by
the serous membranes of the body, such as the pericardium and
peritoneum. Blood serum, the pale yellowish fluid which exudes from
the clot formed in the coagulation of the blood; the loquid portion
of the blood, after removal of the blood corpuscles and the fibrin.
 -- Muscle serum, the thin watery fluid which separates from the
muscles after coagulation of the muscle plasma; the watery portion of
the plasma. See Muscle plasma, under Plasma.
 -- Serum albumin (Physiol. Chem.), an albuminous body, closely
related to egg albumin, present in nearly all serous fluids; esp.,
the albumin of blood serum.
 -- Serum globulin (Physiol. Chem.), paraglobulin.
 -- Serum of milk (Physiol. Chem.), the whey, or fluid portion of
milk, remaining after removal of the casein and fat.

SERUM-THERAPY
Se"rum-ther`a*py, n. (Med.)

Defn: The treatment of disease by the injection of blood serum from
immune animals.

SERVABLE
Serv"a*ble, a. Etym: [See Serve.]

1. Capable of being served.

2. Etym: [L. servabilis.]

Defn: Capable of being preserved. [R.]

SERVAGE
Serv"age, n. Etym: [Cf. F. servage.]

Defn: Serfage; slavery; servitude. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SERVAL
Ser"val, n. Etym: [Cf. F. serval.] (Zool.)

Defn: An African wild cat (Felis serval) of moderate size. It has
rather long legs and a tail of moderate length. Its color is tawny,
with black spots on the body and rings of black on the tail.

SERVALINE
Ser"val*ine, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Related to, or resembling, the serval.

SERVANT
Serv"ant, n. Etym: [OE. servant, servaunt, F. servant, a & p. pr. of
servir to serve, L. servire. See Serve, and cf. Sergeant.]

1. One who serves, or does services, voluntarily or on compulsion; a
person who is employed by another for menial offices, or for other
labor, and is subject to his command; a person who labors or exerts
himself for the benefit of another, his master or employer; a
subordinate helper. "A yearly hired servant." Lev. xxv. 53.
Men in office have begun to think themselves mere agents and servants
of the appointing power, and not agents of the government or the
country. D. Webster.

Note: In a legal sense, stewards, factors, bailiffs, and other
agents, are servants for the time they are employed in such
character, as they act in subordination to others. So any person may
be legally the servant of another, in whose business, and under whose
order, direction, and control, he is acting for the time being.
Chitty.

2. One in a state of subjection or bondage.
Thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt. Deut. v. 15.

3. A professed lover or suitor; a gallant. [Obs.]
In my time a servant was I one. Chaucer.
Servant of servants, one debased to the lowest condition of
servitude.
 -- Your humble servant, or Your obedient servant, phrases of
civility often used in closing a letter.
Our betters tell us they are our humble servants, but understand us
to be their slaves. Swift.

SERVANT
Serv"ant, v. t.

Defn: To subject. [Obs.] Shak.

SERVANTESS
Serv"ant*ess, n.

Defn: A maidservant. [Obs.] Wyclif.

SERVANTRY
Serv"ant*ry, n.

Defn: A body of servants; servants, collectively. [R.]

SERVE
Serve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Served; p. pr. & vb. n. Serving.] Etym:
[OE. serven, servien, OF. & F. servir, fr. L. servire; akin to servus
a servant or slave, servare to protect, preserve, observe; cf. Zend
har to protect, haurva protecting. Cf. Conserve, Desert merit,
Dessert, Observe, Serf, Sergeant.]

1. To work for; to labor in behalf of; to exert one's self
continuously or statedly for the benefit of; to do service for; to be
in the employment of, as an inferior, domestic, serf, slave, hired
assistant, official helper, etc.; specifically, in a religious sense,
to obey and worship.
God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit. Rom. i. 9.
Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years for
Rachel thy younger daughter. Gen. xxix. 18.
No man can serve two masters. Matt. vi. 24.
Had I but served my God with half the zeal I served my king, he would
not in mine age Have left me naked to mine enemies. Shak.

2. To be subordinate to; to act a secondary part under; to appear as
the inferior of; to minister to.
Bodies bright and greater should not serve The less not bright.
Milton.

3. To be suitor to; to profess love to. [Obs.]
To serve a lady in his beste wise. Chaucer.

4. To wait upon; to supply the wants of; to attend; specifically, to
wait upon at table; to attend at meals; to supply with food; as, to
serve customers in a shop.
Others, pampered in their shameless pride, Are served in plate and in
their chariots ride. Dryden.

5. Hence, to bring forward, arrange, deal, or distribute, as a
portion of anything, especially of food prepared for eating; -- often
with up; formerly with in.
Bid them cover the table, serve in the meat, and we will come in to
dinner. Shak.
Some part he roasts, then serves it up so dressed. Dryde.

6. To perform the duties belonging to, or required in or for; hence,
to be of use to; as, a curate may serve two churches; to serve one's
country.

7. To contribute or conduce to; to promote; to be sufficient for; to
satisfy; as, to serve one's turn.
Turn it into some advantage, by observing where it can serve another
end. Jer. Taylor.

8. To answer or be (in the place of something) to; as, a sofa serves
one for a seat and a couch.

9. To treat; to behave one's self to; to requite; to act toward; as,
he served me very ill.

10. To work; to operate; as, to serve the guns.

11. (Law)
(a) To bring to notice, deliver, or execute, either actually or
constructively, in such manner as the law requires; as, to serve a
summons.
(b) To make legal service opon (a person named in a writ, summons,
etc.); as, to serve a witness with a subpoena.

12. To pass or spend, as time, esp. time of punishment; as, to serve
a term in prison.

13. To copulate with; to cover; as, a horse serves a mare; -- said of
the male.

14. (Tennis)

Defn: To lead off in delivering (the ball).

15. (Naut.)

Defn: To wind spun yarn, or the like, tightly around (a rope or
cable, etc.) so as to protect it from chafing or from the weather.
See under Serving. To serve an attachment or a writ of attachment
(Law), to levy it on the person or goods by seizure, or to seize.
 -- To serve an execution (Law), to levy it on a lands, goods, or
person, by seizure or taking possession.
 -- To serve an office, to discharge a public duty.
 -- To serve a process (Law), in general, to read it, so as to give
due notice to the party concerned, or to leave an attested copy with
him or his attorney, or his usual place of abode.
 -- To serve a warrant, to read it, and seize the person against whom
it is issued.
 -- To serve a writ (Law), to read it to the defendant, or to leave
an attested copy at his usual place of abode.
 -- To serve one out, to retaliate upon; to requite. "I'll serve you
out for this." C. Kingsley.
 -- To serve one right, to treat, or cause to befall one, according
to his deserts; -- used commonly of ill deserts; as, it serves the
scoundrel right; -- To serve one's self of, to avail one's self of;
to make use of. [A Gallicism]
I will serve myself of this concession. Chillingworth.
-- To serve out, to distribute; as, to serve out rations.
 -- To serve the time or the hour, to regulate one's actions by the
requirements of the time instead of by one's duty; to be a
timeserver. [Obs.]
They think herein we serve the time, because thereby we either hold
or seek preferment. Hooker.

Syn.
 -- To obey; minister to; subserve; promote; aid; help; assist;
benefit; succor.

SERVE
Serve, v. i.

1. To be a servant or a slave; to be employed in labor or other
business for another; to be in subjection or bondage; to render
menial service.
The Lord shall give thee rest . . . from the hard bondage wherein
thou wast made to serve. Isa. xiv. 3.

2. To perform domestic offices; to be occupied with household
affairs; to prepare and dish up food, etc.
But Martha . . . said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath
left me to serve alone Luke x. 40.

3. To be in service; to do duty; to discharge the requirements of an
office or employment. Specifically, to act in the public service, as
a soldier, seaman. etc.
Many . . . who had before been great commanders, but now served as
private gentlemen without pay. Knolles.

4. To be of use; to answer a purpose; to suffice; to suit; to be
convenient or favorable.
This little brand will serve to light your fire. Dryden.
As occasion serves, this noble queen And prince shall follow with a
fresh supply. Shak.

5. (Tennis)

Defn: To lead off in delivering the ball.

SERVER
Serv"er, n.

1. One who serves.

2. A tray for dishes; a salver. Randolph.

SERVIAN
Ser"vi*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Servia, a kingdom of Southern Europe.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Servia.

SERVICE; SERVICE
Serv"ice, n., or Serv"ice. Etym: [Properly, the tree which bears
serve, OE. serves, pl., service berries, AS. syrfe service tree; akin
to L. sorbus.] (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several trees and shrubs of the genus Pyrus, as
Pyrus domestica and P. torminalis of Europe, the various species of
mountain ash or rowan tree, and the American shad bush (see Shad
bush, under Shad). They have clusters of small, edible, applelike
berries. Service berry (Bot.), the fruit of any kind of service tree.
In British America the name is especially applied to that of the
several species or varieties of the shad bush (Amelanchier.)

SERVICE
Serv"ice, n. Etym: [OE. servise, OF. servise, service, F. service,
from L. servitium. See Serve.]

1. The act of serving; the occupation of a servant; the performance
of labor for the benefit of another, or at another's command;
attendance of an inferior, hired helper. slave, etc., on a superior,
employer, master, or the like; also, spiritual obedience and love. "O
God . . . whose service is perfect freedom." Bk. of Com. Prayer.
Madam, I entreat true peace of you, Which I will purchase with my
duteous service. Shak.
God requires no man's service upon hard and unreasonable terms.
Tillotson.

2. The deed of one who serves; labor performed for another; duty done
or required; office.
I have served him from the hour of my nativity, . . . and have
nothing at his hands for my service but blows. Shak.
This poem was the last piece of service I did for my master, King
Charles. Dryden.
To go on the forlorn hope is a service of peril; who will understake
it if it be not also a service of honor Macaulay.

3. Office of devotion; official religious duty performed; religious
rites appropriate to any event or ceremonial; as, a burial service.
The outward service of ancient religion, the rites, ceremonies, and
ceremonial vestments of the old law. Coleridge.

4. Hence, a musical composition for use in churches.

5. Duty performed in, or appropriate to, any office or charge;
official function; hence, specifically, military or naval duty;
performance of the duties of a soldier.
When he cometh to experience of service abroad . . . ne maketh a
worthy soldier. Spenser.

6. Useful office; advantage conferred; that which promotes interest
or happiness; benefit; avail.
The stork's plea, when taken in a net, was the service she did in
picking up venomous creatures. L'Estrange.

7. Profession of respect; acknowledgment of duty owed. "Pray, do my
service to his majesty." Shak.

8. The act and manner of bringing food to the persons who eat it;
order of dishes at table; also, a set or number of vessels ordinarily
used at table; as, the service was tardy and awkward; a service of
plate or glass.
There was no extraordinary service seen on the board. Hakewill.

9. (Law)

Defn: The act of bringing to notice, either actually or
constructively, in such manner as is prescribed by law; as, the
service of a subpoena or an attachment.

10. (Naut.)

Defn: The materials used for serving a rope, etc., as spun yarn,
small lines, etc.

11. (Tennis)

Defn: The act of serving the ball.

12. Act of serving or covering. See Serve, v. t., 13. Service book, a
prayer book or missal.
 -- Service line (Tennis), a line parallel to the net, and at a
distance of 21 feet from it.
 -- Service of a writ, process, etc. (Law), personal delivery or
communication of the writ or process, etc., to the party to be
affected by it, so as to subject him to its operation; the reading of
it to the person to whom notice is intended to be given, or the
leaving of an attested copy with the person or his attorney, or at
his usual place of abode.
 -- Service of an attachment (Law), the seizing of the person or
goods according to the direction.
 -- Service of an execution (Law), the levying of it upon the goods,
estate, or person of the defendant.
 -- Service pipe, a pipe connecting mains with a dwelling, as in gas
pipes, and the like. Tomlinson.
 -- To accept service. (Law) See under Accept.
 -- To see service (Mil.), to do duty in the presence of the enemy,
or in actual war.

SERVICEABLE
Serv"ice*a*ble, a.

1. Doing service; promoting happiness, interest, advantage, or any
good; useful to any end; adapted to any good end use; beneficial;
advantageous. "Serviceable to religion and learning". Atterbury.
"Serviceable tools." Macaulay.
I know thee well, a serviceable villain. Shak.

2. Prepared for rendering service; capable of, or fit for, the
performance of duty; hence, active; diligent.
Courteous he was, lowly, and servysable. Chaucer.
Bright-hearnessed angels sit in order serviceable. Milton.
Seeing her so sweet and serviceable. Tennnyson.
-- Serv"ice*a*ble*ness, n.
 -- Serv"ice*a*bly, adv.

SERVICEAGE
Serv"ice*age, n.

Defn: Servitude. [Obs.] Fairfax.

SERVICE CAP; SERVICE HAT
Serv"ice cap or hat. (Mil.)

Defn: A cap or hat worn by officers or enlisted men when full-dress
uniform, or dress uniform, is not worn. In the United States army the
service cap is round, about 3? inches high, flat-topped, with  a
visor. The service hat is of soft felt of khaki color, with  broad
brim and high crown, creased down the middle.

SERVICE UNIFORM
Service uniform. (Mil. & Nav.)

Defn: The uniform prescribed in regulations for active or routine
service, in distinction from dress, full dress, etc. In the United
States army it is of olive-drab woolen or khaki-colored cotton, with
all metal attachments of dull-finish bronze, with the exceptional of
insignia of rank, which are of gold or silver finish.

SERVIENT
Serv"i*ent, a. Etym: [L. serviens, -entis, p. pr. See Serve.]

Defn: Subordinate. [Obs. except in law.] Dyer. Servient tenement or
estate (Law), that on which the burden of a servitude or an easement
is imposed. Cf. Dominant estate, under Dominant. Gale & Whately.

SERVIETTE
Ser`viette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A table napkin.

SERVILE
Serv"ile, a. Etym: [L. servile, fr. servus a servant or slave: cf. F.
servile. See Serve.]

1. Of or pertaining to a servant or slave; befitting a servant or a
slave; proceeding from dependence; hence, meanly submissive; slavish;
mean; cringing; fawning; as, servile flattery; servile fear; servile
obedience.
She must bend the servile knee. Thomson.
Fearing dying pays death servile breath. Shak.

2. Held in subjection; dependent; enslaved.
Even fortune rules no more, O servile land! Pope.

3. (Gram.)
(a) Not belonging to the original root; as, a servile letter.
(b) Not itself sounded, but serving to lengthen the preceeding vowel,
as e in tune.

SERVILE
Serv"ile, n. (Gram.)

Defn: An element which forms no part of the original root; -- opposed
to radical.

SERVILELY
Serv"ile*ly, adv.

Defn: In a servile manner; slavishly.

SERVILENESS
Serv"ile*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being servile; servility.

SERVILITY
Ser*vil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. servilite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being servile; servileness.
To be a queen in bondage is more vile Than is a slave in base
servility. Shak.

SERVING
Serv"ing,

Defn: a & n. from Serve. Serving board (Naut.), a flat piece of wood
used in serving ropes.
 -- Serving maid, a female servant; a maidservant.
 -- Serving mallet (Naut.), a wooden instrument shaped like a mallet,
used in serving ropes.
 -- Serving man, a male servant, or attendant; a manservant.
 -- Serving stuff (Naut.), small lines for serving ropes.

SERVITE
Serv"ite, n. Etym: [It. servita.] (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: One of the order of the Religious Servants of the Holy Virgin,
founded in Florence in 1223.

SERVITOR
Serv"i*tor, n. Etym: [L., fr. servire to serve: cf. F. serviteur.]

1. One who serves; a servant; an attendant; one who acts under
another; a follower or adherent.
Your trusty and most valiant servitor. Shak.

2. (Univ. of Oxford, Eng.)

Defn: An undergraduate, partly supported by the college funds, whose
duty it formerly was to wait at table. A servitor corresponded to a
sizar in Cambridge and Dublin universities.

SERVITORSHIP
Serv"i*tor*ship, n.

Defn: The office, rank, or condition of a servitor. Boswell.

SERVITUDE
Serv"i*tude, n. Etym: [L. servitudo: cf. F. servitude.]

1. The state of voluntary or compulsory subjection to a master; the
condition of being bound to service; the condition of a slave;
slavery; bondage; hence, a state of slavish dependence.
You would have sold your king to slaughter, His princes and his peers
to servitude. Shak.
A splendid servitude; . . . for he that rises up early, and goeSouth.

2. Servants, collectively. [Obs.]
After him a cumbrous train Of herds and flocks, and numerous
servitude. Milton.

3. (Law)

Defn: A right whereby one thing is subject to another thing or person
for use or convenience, contrary to the common right.

Note: The object of a servitude is either to suffer something to be
done by another, or to omit to do something, with respect to a thing.
The easements of the English correspond in some respects with the
servitudes of the Roman law. Both terms are used by common law
writers, and often indiscriminately. The former, however, rather
indicates the right enjoyed, and the latter the burden imposed.
Ayliffe. Erskine. E. Washburn. Penal servitude. See under Penal.
 -- Personal servitude (Law), that which arises when the use of a
thing is granted as a real right to a particular individual other
than the proprietor.
 -- Predial servitude (Law), that which one estate owes to another
estate. When it related to lands, vineyards, gardens, or the like, it
is called rural; when it related to houses and buildings, it is
called urban.

SERVITURE
Serv"i*ture, n.

Defn: Servants, collectively. [Obs.]

SERVITUTE
Serv"i*tute, n. Etym: [L. servitus.]

Defn: Servitude. [Obs.]

SERVO-MOTOR
Ser`vo-mo"tor, n. [Sometimes erroneously spelt serro-motor.] [F.
servo-moteur. See Serf; Motor.] (Mach.)

Defn: A relay apparatus; specif.:
 (a) An auxiliary motor, regulated by a hand lever, for quickly and
easily moving the reversing gear of a large marine engine into any
desired position indicated by that of the hand lever, which controls
the valve of the motor.
 (b) In a Whitehead torpedo, a compressed-air motor, for moving the
rudders so as to correct deviations from the course.

SERYE
Se"rye, n.

Defn: A series. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SESAME
Ses"a*me, n. Etym: [L. sesamum, sesama, Gr. sesame.] (Bot.)

Defn: Either of two annual herbaceous plants of the genus Sesamum (S.
Indicum, and S. orientale), from the seeds of which an oil is
expressed; also, the small obovate, flattish seeds of these plants,
sometimes used as food. See Benne. Open Sesame, the magical command
which opened the door of the robber's den in the Arabian Nights' tale
of "The Forty Thieves;" hence, a magical password.
 -- Sesame grass. (Bot.) Same as Gama grass.

SESAMOID
Ses"a*moid, a. Etym: [Gr. sesamoide.]

1. Resembling in shape the seeds of sesame.

2. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sesamoid bones or cartilages;
sesamoidal. Sesamoid bones, Sesamoid cartilages (Anat.), small bones
or cartilages formed in tendons, like the patella and pisiform in
man.

SESAMOID
Ses"a*moid, n. (Anat.)

Defn: A sesamoid bone or cartilage.

SESAMOIDAL
Ses`a*moid"al, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Sesamoid.

SESBAN
Ses"ban, n. Etym: [F., fr. Ar. saisaban, seiseban, a kind of tree,
fr. Per. sisaban seed of cinquefoil.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous shrub (Sesbania aculeata) which furnishes a fiber
used for making ropes.

Note: The name is applied also to the similar plant, Sesbania
?gyptiaca, and other species of the same genus.

SESQUI-
Ses`qui-. Etym: [L., one half more, one and a half.] (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting that three
atoms or equivalents of the substance to the name of which it is
prefixed are combined with two of some other element or radical; as,
sesquibromide, sesquicarbonate, sesquichloride, sesquioxide.

Note: Sesquidupli- is sometimes, but rarely, used in the same manner
to denote the proportions of two and a half to one, or rather of five
to two.

SESQUIALTER
Ses`qui*al"ter, a.

Defn: Sesquialteral.

SESQUIALTER; SESQUIALTERA
Ses`qui*al"ter, Ses`qui*al"ter*a, n. Etym: [NL. sesquialtera.] (Mus.)

Defn: A stop on the organ, containing several ranks of pipes which
reenforce some of the high harmonics of the ground tone, and make the
sound more brilliant.

SESQUIALTERAL; SESQUIALTERATE
Ses`qui*al"ter*al, Ses`qui*al"ter*ate, a. Etym: [L. sesquialter once
and a half; sesqui- + alter other: cf. F. sesquialtere.]

Defn: Once and a half times as great as another; having the ratio of
one and a half to one. Sesquialteral ratio (Math.), the ratio of one
and a half to one; thus, 9 and 6 are in a sequialteral ratio.

SESQUIALTEROUS
Ses`qui*al"ter*ous, a.

Defn: Sesquialteral.

SESQUIBASIC
Ses`qui*ba"sic, a. Etym: [Sesqui- + basic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Containing, or acting as, a base in the proportions of a sesqui
compound.

SESQUIDUPLICATE
Ses`qui*du"pli*cate, a. Etym: [Sesqui- + duplicate.]

Defn: Twice and a half as great (as another thing); having the ratio
of two and a half to one. Sesquiduplicate ratio (Math.), the ratio of
two and a half to one, or one in which the greater term contains the
lesser twice and a half, as that of 50 to 20.

SESQUIOXIDE
Ses`qui*ox"ide, n. Etym: [Sesqui- + oxide.] (Chem.)

Defn: An oxide containing three atoms of oxygen with two atoms (or
radicals) of some other substance; thus, alumina, Al2O3 is a
sesquioxide.

SESQUIPEDAL; SESQUIPEDALIAN
Ses*quip"e*dal, Ses`qui*pe*da"li*an, a. Etym: [Sesqui- + pedal: cf.
F. sesquipedal, L. sesquipedalis.]

Defn: Measuring or containing a foot and a half; as, a sesquipedalian
pygmy; -- sometimes humorously applied to long words.

SESQUIPEDALIANISM; SESQUIPEDALISM
Ses`qui*pe*da"li*an*ism, Ses*quip"e*dal*ism, n.

Defn: Sesquipedality.

SESQUIPEDALITY
Ses`qui*pe*dal"i*ty, n.

1. The quality or condition of being sesquipedal. Sterne.

2. The use of sesquipedalian words; style characterized by the use of
long words; sesquipedalism.

SESQUIPLICATE
Ses*quip"li*cate, a. Etym: [Sesqui- + plicate.] (Math.)

Defn: Subduplicate of the triplicate; -- a term applied to ratios;
thus, a and a' are in the sesquiplicate ratio of b and b', when a is
to a' as the square root of the cube of b is to the square root of
the cube of b', or a:a'::sq. rootb3:sq. rootb'3.
The periodic times of the planets are in the sesquiplicate ratio of
their mean distances. Sir I. Newton.

SESQUISALT
Ses"qui*salt, n. Etym: [Sesqui- + salt.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt derived from a sesquioxide base, or made up on the
proportions of a sesqui compound.

SESQUISULPHIDE
Ses`qui*sul"phide, n. Etym: [Sesqui- + sulphide.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sulphide, analogous to a sesquioxide, containing three atoms
of sulphur to two of the other ingredient; -- formerly called also
sesquisulphuret; as, orpiment, As2S3 is arsenic sesquisulphide.

SESQUITERTIAL
Ses`qui*ter"tial, a.

Defn: Sesquitertian.

SESQUITERTIAN; SESQUITERTIANAL
Ses`qui*ter"tian, Ses`qui*ter"tian*al, a. Etym: [Sesqui- + L.
tertianus belonging to the third. Cf. Tertian.] (Math.)

Defn: Having the ratio of one and one third to one (as 4 : 3).

SESQUITONE
Ses"qui*tone, n. Etym: [Sesqui- + tone.] (Mus.)

Defn: A minor third, or interval of three semitones.

SESS
Sess, v. t. Etym: [Aphetic form of assess. See Assess, Cess.]

Defn: To lay a tax upon; to assess. [Obs.]

SESS
Sess, n.

Defn: A tax; an assessment. See Cess. [Obs.]

SESSA
Ses"sa, interj.

Defn: Hurry; run. [Obs.] Shak.

SESSILE
Ses"sile, a. Etym: [L. sessilis low, dwarf, from sedere, sessum, to
sit: cf. F. sessile.]

1. Attached without any sensible projecting support.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Resting directly upon the main stem or branch, without a
petiole or footstalk; as, a sessile leaf or blossom.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Permanently attached; -- said of the gonophores of certain
hydroids which never became detached.

SESSILE-EYED
Ses"sile-eyed`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having eyes which are not elevated on a stalk; -- opposed to
stalk-eyed. Sessile-eyed Crustacea, the Arthrostraca.

SESSION
Ses"sion, n. Etym: [L. sessio, fr. sedere, sessum, to sit: cf. F.
session. See Sit.]

1. The act of sitting, or the state of being seated. [Archaic]
So much his ascension into heaven and his session at the right hand
of God do import. Hooker.
But Viven, gathering somewhat of his mood, . . . Leaped from her
session on his lap, and stood. Tennyson.

2. The actual sitting of a court, council, legislature, etc., or the
actual assembly of the members of such a body, for the transaction of
business.
It's fit this royal session do proceed. Shak.

3. Hence, also, the time, period, or term during which a court,
council, legislature, etc., meets daily for business; or, the space
of time between the first meeting and the prorogation or adjournment;
thus, a session of Parliaments is opened with a speech from the
throne, and closed by prorogation. The session of a judicial court is
called a term.
It was resolved that the convocation should meet at the beginning of
the next session of Parliament. Macaulay.

Note: Sessions, in some of the States, is particularly used as a
title for a court of justices, held for granting licenses to
innkeepers, etc., and for laying out highways, and the like; it is
also the title of several courts of criminal jurisdiction in England
and the United States. Church session, the lowest court in the
Presbyterian Church, composed of the pastor and a body of elders
elected by the members of a particular church, and having the care of
matters pertaining to the religious interests of that church, as the
admission and dismission of members, discipline, etc.
 -- Court of Session, the supreme civil court of Scotland.
 -- Quarter sessions. (Eng.Law) See under Quarter.
 -- Sessions of the peace, sittings held by justices of the peace.
[Eng.]

SESSIONAL
Ses"sion*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a session or sessions.

SESSPOOL
Sess"pool`, n. Etym: [Prov. E. suss hogwash, soss a dirty mess, a
puddle + E. pool a puddle; cf. Gael. ses a coarse mess.]

Defn: Same as Cesspool.

SESTERCE
Ses"terce, n. Etym: [L. sestertius (sc. nummus), fr. sestertius two
and a half; semis half + tertius third: cf. F. sesterce.] (Rom.
Antiq.)

Defn: A Roman coin or denomination of money, in value the fourth part
of a denarius, and originally containing two asses and a half,
afterward four asses, -- equal to about two pence sterling, or four
cents.

Note: The sestertium was equivalent to one thousand sesterces, equal
to ?8 17s 1d. sterling, or about $43, before the reign of Augustus.
After his reign its value was about ?7 16s. 3d. sterling. The
sesterce was originally coined only in silver, but later both in
silver and brass.

SESTET
Ses*tet", n. Etym: [It. sestetto, fr. sesto sixth, L. sextus, fr. sex
six.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A piece of music composed for six voices or six instruments; a
sextet; -- called also sestuor. [Written also sestett, sestette.]

2. (Poet.)

Defn: The last six lines of a sonnet.

SESTETTO
Ses*tet"to, n.Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A sestet.

SESTINE
Ses"tine, n.

Defn: See Sextain.

SESTUOR
Ses"tu*or, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A sestet.

SET
Set, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Set; p. pr. & vb. n. Setting.] Etym: [OE.
setten, AS. setton; akin to OS. settian, OFries. setta, D. zetten,
OHG. sezzen, G. setzen, Icel. setja, Sw. satta, Dan. s, Goth. satjan;
causative from the root of E. sit. Sit, and cf. Seize.]

1. To cause to sit; to make to assume a specified position or
attitude; to give site or place to; to place; to put; to fix; as, to
set a house on a stone foundation; to set a book on a shelf; to set a
dish on a table; to set a chest or trunk on its bottom or on end.
I do set my bow in the cloud. Gen. ix. 13.

2. Hence, to attach or affix (something) to something else, or in or
upon a certain place.
Set your affection on things above. Col. iii. 2.
The Lord set a mark upon Cain. Gen. iv. 15.

3. To make to assume specified place, condition, or occupation; to
put in a certain condition or state (described by the accompanying
words); to cause to be.
The Lord thy God will set thee on hihg. Deut. xxviii. 1.
I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the
daughter against her mother. Matt. x. 35.
Every incident sets him thinking. Coleridge.

4. To fix firmly; to make fast, permanent, or stable; to render
motionless; to give an unchanging place, form, or condition to.
Specifically: --
(a) To cause to stop or stick; to obstruct; to fsten to a spot;
hence, to occasion difficulty to; to embarrass; as, to set a coach in
the mud.
They show how hard they are set in this particular. Addison.

(b) To fix beforehand; to determine; hence, to make unyielding or
obstinate; to render stiff, unpliant, or rigid; as, to set one's
countenance.
His eyes were set by reason of his age. 1 Kings xiv. 4.
On these three objects his heart was set. Macaulay.
Make my heart as a millstone, set my face as a flint. Tennyson.

(c) To fix in the ground, as a post or a tree; to plant; as, to set
pear trees in an orchard.
(d) To fix, as a precious stone, in a border of metal; to place in a
setting; hence, to place in or amid something which serves as a
setting; as, to set glass in a sash.
And him too rich a jewel to be set In vulgar metal for a vulgar use.
Dryden.

(e) To render stiff or solid; especially, to convert into curd; to
curdle; as, to set milk for cheese.

5. To put into a desired position or condition; to adjust; to
regulate; to adapt. Specifically: --
(a) To put in order in a particular manner; to prepare; as, to set
(that is, to hone) a razor; to set a saw.
Tables for to sette, and beddes make. Chaucer.

(b) To extend and bring into position; to spread; as, to set the
sails of a ship.
(c) To give a pitch to, as a tune; to start by fixing the keynote;
as, to set a psalm. Fielding.
(d) To reduce from a dislocated or fractured state; to replace; as,
to set a broken bone.
(e) To make to agree with some standard; as, to set a watch or a
clock.
(f) (Masonry) To lower into place and fix silidly, as the blocks of
cut stone in a structure.

6. To stake at play; to wager; to risk.
I have set my life upon a cast, And I will stand the hazard of the
die. Shak.

7. To fit with music; to adapt, as words to notes; to prepare for
singing.
Set thy own songs, and sing them to thy lute. Dryden.

8. To determine; to appoint; to assign; to fix; as, to set a time for
a meeting; to set a price on a horse.

9. To adorn with something infixed or affixed; to stud; to variegate
with objects placed here and there.
High on their heads, with jewels richly set, Each lady wore a radiant
coronet. Dryden.
Pastoral dales thin set with modern farms. Wordsworth.

10. To value; to rate; -- with at.
Be you contented, wearing now the garland, To have a son set your
decrees at naught. Shak.
I do not set my life at a pin's fee. Shak.

11. To point out the seat or position of, as birds, or other game; --
said of hunting dogs.

12. To establish as a rule; to furnish; to prescribe; to assign; as,
to set an example; to set lessons to be learned.

13. To suit; to become; as, it sets him ill. [Scot.]

14. (Print.)

Defn: To compose; to arrange in words, lines, etc.; as, to set type;
to set a page. To set abroach. See Abroach. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- To set against, to oppose; to set in comparison with, or to
oppose to, as an equivalent in exchange; as, to set one thing against
another.
 -- To set agoing, to cause to move.
 -- To set apart, to separate to a particular use; to separate from
the rest; to reserve.
 -- To set a saw, to bend each tooth a little, every alternate one
being bent to one side, and the intermediate ones to the other side,
so that the opening made by the saw may be a little wider than the
thickness of the back, to prevent the saw from sticking.
 -- To set aside. (a) To leave out of account; to pass by; to omit;
to neglect; to reject; to annul.
Setting aside all other considerations, I will endeavor to know the
truth, and yield to that. Tillotson.
(b) To set apart; to reserve; as, to set aside part of one's income.
(c) (Law) See under Aside.
 -- To set at defiance, to defy.
 -- To set at ease, to quiet; to tranquilize; as, to set the heart at
ease.
 -- To set at naught, to undervalue; to contemn; to despise. "Ye have
set at naught all my counsel." Prov. i. 25.
 -- To set a trap, snare, or gin, to put it in a proper condition or
position to catch prey; hence, to lay a plan to deceive and draw
another into one's power.
 -- To set at work, or To set to work. (a) To cause to enter on work
or action, or to direct how tu enter on work. (b) To apply one's
self; -- used reflexively.
 -- To set before. (a) To bring out to view before; to exhibit. (b)
To propose for choice to; to offer to.
 -- To set by. (a) To set apart or on one side; to reject. (b) To
attach the value of (anything) to. "I set not a straw by thy
dreamings." Chaucer.
 -- To set by the compass, to observe and note the bearing or
situation of by the compass.
 -- To set case, to suppose; to assume. Cf. Put case, under Put, v.
t. [Obs.] Chaucer.
 -- To set down. (a) To enter in writing; to register.
Some rules were to be set down for the government of the army.
Clarendon.
(b) To fix; to establish; to ordain.
This law we may name eternal, being that order which God . . . hath
set down with himself, for himself to do all things by. Hooker.
(c) To humiliate.
 -- To set eyes on, to see; to behold; to fasten the eyes on.
 -- To set fire to, or To set on fire, to communicate fire to; fig.,
to inflame; to enkindle the passions of; to irritate.
 -- To set flying (Naut.), to hook to halyards, sheets, etc., instead
of extending with rings or the like on a stay; -- said of a sail.
 -- To set forth. (a) To manifest; to offer or present to view; to
exhibt; to display. (b) To publish; to promulgate; to make appear.
Waller. (c) To send out; to prepare and send. [Obs.]
The Venetian admiral had a fleet of sixty galleys, set forth by the
Venetians. Knolles.
-- To set forward. (a) To cause to advance. (b) To promote.
 -- To set free, to release from confinement, imprisonment, or
bondage; to liberate; to emancipate.
 -- To set in, to put in the way; to begin; to give a start to.
[Obs.]
If you please to assist and set me in, I will recollect myself.
Collier.
-- To set in order, to adjust or arrange; to reduce to method. "The
rest will I set in order when I come." 1 Cor. xi. 34.
 -- To set milk. (a) To expose it in open dishes in order that the
cream may rise to the surface. (b) To cause it to become curdled as
by the action of rennet. See 4 (e).
 -- To set much, or little, by, to care much, or little, for.
 -- To set of, to value; to set by. [Obs.] "I set not an haw of his
proverbs." Chaucer.
 -- To set off. (a) To separate from a whole; to assign to a
particular purpose; to portion off; as, to set off a portion of an
estate. (b) To adorn; to decorate; to embellish.
They . . . set off the worst faces with the best airs. Addison.
(c) To give a flattering description of.
 -- To set off against, to place against as an equivalent; as, to set
off one man's services against another's.
 -- To set on or upon. (a) To incite; to instigate. "Thou, traitor,
hast set on thy wife to this." Shak. (b) To employ, as in a task. "
Set on thy wife to observe." Shak. (c) To fix upon; to attach
strongly to; as, to set one's heart or affections on some object. See
definition 2, above.
 -- To set one's cap for. See under Cap, n.
 -- To set one's self against, to place one's self in a state of
enmity or opposition to.
 -- To set one's teeth, to press them together tightly.
 -- To set on foot, to set going; to put in motion; to start.
 -- To set out. (a) To assign; to allot; to mark off; to limit; as,
to set out the share of each proprietor or heir of an estate; to set
out the widow's thirds. (b) To publish, as a proclamation. [Obs.] (c)
To adorn; to embellish.
An ugly woman, in rich habit set out with jewels, nothing can become.
Dryden.
(d) To raise, equip, and send forth; to furnish. [R.]
The Venetians pretend they could set out, in case of great necessity,
thirty men-of-war. Addison.
(e) To show; to display; to recommend; to set off.
I could set out that best side of Luther. Atterbury.
(f) To show; to prove. [R.] "Those very reasons set out how heinous
his sin was." Atterbury. (g) (Law) To recite; to state at large.
 -- To set over. (a) To appoint or constitute as supervisor,
inspector, ruler, or commander. (b) To assign; to transfer; to
convey.
 -- To set right, to correct; to put in order.
 -- To set sail. (Naut.) See under Sail, n.
 -- To set store by, to consider valuable.
 -- To set the fashion, to determine what shall be the fashion; to
establish the mode.
 -- To set the teeth on edge, to affect the teeth with a disagreeable
sensation, as when acids are brought in contact with them.
 -- To set the watch (Naut.), to place the starboard or port watch on
duty.
 -- To set to, to attach to; to affix to. "He . . . hath set to his
seal that God is true." John iii. 33.
 -- To set up. (a) To erect; to raise; to elevate; as, to set up a
building, or a machine; to set up a post, a wall, a pillar. (b)
Hence, to exalt; to put in power. "I will . . . set up the throne of
David over Israel." 2 Sam. iii. 10. (c) To begin, as a new
institution; to institute; to establish; to found; as, to set up a
manufactory; to set up a school. (d) To enable to commence a new
business; as, to set up a son in trade. (e) To place in view; as, to
set up a mark. (f) To raise; to utter loudly; as, to set up the
voice.
I'll set up such a note as she shall hear. Dryden.
(g) To advance; to propose as truth or for reception; as, to set up a
new opinion or doctrine. T. Burnet. (h) To raise from depression, or
to a sufficient fortune; as, this good fortune quite set him up. (i)
To intoxicate. [Slang] (j) (Print.) To put in type; as, to set up
copy; to arrange in words, lines, etc., ready for printing; as, to
set up type.
 -- To set up the rigging (Naut.), to make it taut by means of
tackles. R. H. Dana, Jr.

Syn.
 -- See Put.

SET
Set, v. i.

1. To pass below the horizon; to go down; to decline; to sink out of
sight; to come to an end.
Ere the weary sun set in the west. Shak.
Thus this century sets with little mirth, and the next is likely to
arise with more mourning. Fuller.

2. To fit music to words. [Obs.] Shak.

3. To place plants or shoots in the ground; to plant. "To sow dry,
and set wet." Old Proverb.

4. To be fixed for growth; to strike root; to begin to germinate or
form; as, cuttings set well; the fruit has set well (i. e., not
blasted in the blossom).

5. To become fixed or rigid; to be fastened.
A gathering and serring of the spirits together to resist, maketh the
teeth to set hard one against another. Bacon.

6. To congeal; to concrete; to solidify.
That fluid substance in a few minutes begins to set. Boyle.

7. To have a certain direction in motion; to flow; to move on; to
tend; as, the current sets to the north; the tide sets to the
windward.

8. To begin to move; to go out or forth; to start; -- now followed by
out.
The king is set from London. Shak.

9. To indicate the position of game; -- said of a dog; as, the dog
sets well; also, to hunt game by the aid of a setter.

10. To apply one's self; to undertake earnestly; -- now followed by
out.
If he sets industriously and sincerely to perform the commands of
Christ, he can have no ground of doubting but it shall prove
successful to him. Hammond.

11. To fit or suit one; to sit; as, the coat sets well.

Note: [Colloquially used, but improperly, for sit.]

Note: The use of the verb set for sit in such expressions as, the hen
is setting on thirteen eggs; a setting hen, etc., although
colloquially common, and sometimes tolerated in serious writing, is
not to be approved. To set about, to commence; to begin.
 -- To set forward, to move or march; to begin to march; to advance.
 -- To set forth, to begin a journey.
 -- To set in. (a) To begin; to enter upon a particular state; as,
winter set in early. (b) To settle one's self; to become established.
"When the weather was set in to be very bad." Addyson. (c) To flow
toward the shore; -- said of the tide.
 -- To set off. (a) To enter upon a journey; to start. (b) (Typog.)
To deface or soil the next sheet; -- said of the ink on a freshly
printed sheet, when another sheet comes in contract with it before it
has had time to dry.
 -- To set on or upon. (a) To begin, as a journey or enterprise; to
set about.
He that would seriously set upon the search of truth. Locke.
(b) To assault; to make an attack. Bacon.
Cassio hath here been set on in the dark. Shak.
-- To set out, to begin a journey or course; as, to set out for
London, or from London; to set out in business;to set out in life or
the world.
 -- To set to, to apply one's self to.
 -- To set up. (a) To begin business or a scheme of life; as, to set
up in trade; to set up for one's self. (b) To profess openly; to make
pretensions.
Those men who set up for mortality without regard to religion, are
generally but virtuous in part. Swift.

SET
Set, a.

1. Fixed in position; immovable; rigid; as, a set line; a set
countenance.

2. Firm; unchanging; obstinate; as, set opinions or prejudices.

3. Regular; uniform; formal; as, a set discourse; a set battle. "The
set phrase of peace." Shak.

4. Established; prescribed; as, set forms of prayer.

5. Adjusted; arranged; formed; adapted. Set hammer. (a) A hammer the
head of which is not tightly fastened upon the handle, but may be
reversed. Knight. (b) A hammer with a concave face which forms a die
for shaping anything, as the end of a bolt, rivet, etc.
 -- Set line, a line to which a number of baited hooks are attached,
and which, supported by floats and properly secured, may be left
unguarded during the absence of the fisherman.
 -- Set nut, a jam nut or lock nut. See under Nut.
 -- Set screw (Mach.), a screw, sometimes cupped or printed at one
end, and screwed through one part, as of a machine, tightly upon
another part, to prevent the one from slipping upon the other.
 -- Set speech, a speech carefully prepared before it is delivered in
public; a formal or methodical speech.

SET
Set, n.

1. The act of setting, as of the sun or other heavenly body; descent;
hence, the close; termination. "Locking at the set of day." Tennyson.
The weary sun hath made a golden set. Shak.

2. That which is set, placed, or fixed. Specifically: --
(a) A young plant for growth; as, a set of white thorn.
(b) That which is staked; a wager; a venture; a stake; hence, a game
at venture. [Obs. or R.]
We will in France, by God's grace, play a set Shall strike his
father's crown into the hazard. Shak.
That was but civil war, an equal set. Dryden.
(c) (Mech.)

Defn: Permanent change of figure in consequence of excessive strain,
as from compression, tension, bending, twisting, etc.; as, the set of
a spring.
(d) A kind of punch used for bending, indenting, or giving shape to,
metal; as, a saw set. (e) (Pile Driving)

Defn: A piece placed temporarily upon the head of a pile when the
latter cannot be reached by the weight, or hammer, except by means of
such an intervening piece. [Often incorrectly written sett.] (f)
(Carp.)

Defn: A short steel spike used for driving the head of a nail below
the surface.

3. Etym: [Perhaps due to confusion with sect, sept.]

Defn: A number of things of the same kind, ordinarily used or classed
together; a collection of articles which naturally complement each
other, and usually go together; an assortment; a suit; as, a set of
chairs, of china, of surgical or mathematical instruments, of books,
etc. [In this sense, sometimes incorrectly written sett.]

4. A number of persons associated by custom, office, common opinion,
quality, or the like; a division; a group; a clique. "Others of our
set." Tennyson.
This falls into different divisions, or sets, of nations connected
under particular religions. R. P. Ward.

5. Direction or course; as, the set of the wind, or of a current.

6. In dancing, the number of persons necessary to execute a
quadrille; also, the series of figures or movements executed.

7. The deflection of a tooth, or of the teeth, of a saw, which causes
the the saw to cut a kerf, or make an opening, wider than the blade.

8.
(a) A young oyster when first attached.
(b) Collectively, the crop of young oysters in any locality.

9. (Tennis)

Defn: A series of as many games as may be necessary to enable one
side to win six. If at the end of the tenth game the score is a tie,
the set is usually called a deuce set, and decided by an application
of the rules for playing off deuce in a game. See Deuce.

10. (Type Founding)

Defn: That dimension of the body of a type called by printers the
width. Dead set. (a) The act of a setter dog when it discovers the
game, and remains intently fixed in pointing it out. (b) A fixed or
stationary condition arising from obstacle or hindrance; a deadlock;
as, to be at a dead set. (c) A concerted scheme to defraud by gaming;
a determined onset.
 -- To make a dead set, to make a determined onset, literally or
figuratively.

Syn.
 -- Collection; series; group. See Pair.

SETA
Se"ta, n.; pl. Set?. Etym: [L. seta, saeta, a bristle.]

1. (Biol.)

Defn: Any slender, more or less rigid, bristlelike organ or part; as
the hairs of a caterpillar, the slender spines of a crustacean, the
hairlike processes of a protozoan, the bristles or stiff hairs on the
leaves of some plants, or the pedicel of the capsule of a moss.

2. (Zool.)
(a) One of the movable chitinous spines or hooks of an annelid. They
usually arise in clusters from muscular capsules, and are used in
locomotion and for defense. They are very diverse in form.
(b) One of the spinelike feathers at the base of the bill of certain
birds.

SETACEOUS
Se*ta"ceous, a. Etym: [L. seta a bristle: cf. F. setace.]

1. Set with, or consisting of, bristles; bristly; as, a stiff,
setaceous tail.

2. Bristelike in form or texture; as, a setaceous feather; a
setaceous leaf.

SETBACK
Set"back`, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: Offset, n., 4.

2. A backset; a countercurrent; an eddy. [U. S.]

3. A backset; a check; a repulse; a reverse; a relapse. [Colloq.
U.S.]

SETBOLT
Set"bolt`, n. (Shipbuilding)

1. An iron pin, or bolt, for fitting planks closely together. Craig.

2. A bolt used for forcing another bolt out of its hole.

SET CHISEL
Set chisel. (Mech.)

Defn: A kind of chisel or punch, variously shaped, with a broad flat
end, used for stripping off rivet heads, etc.

SETDOWN
Set"down`, n.

Defn: The humbling of a person by act or words, especially by a
retort or a reproof; the retort or the reproof which has such effect.

SETEE
Set*ee", n. (Naut.)

Defn: See 2d Settee.

SETEN
Set"en,

Defn: obs. imp. pl. of Sit. Sat. Chaucer.

SETEWALE
Set"e*wale, n.

Defn: See Cetewale. [Obs.]

SET-FAIR
Set"-fair`, n.

Defn: In plastering, a particularly good troweled surface. Knight.

SETFOIL
Set"foil`, n.

Defn: See Septfoil.

SETHEN
Seth"en, adv. & conj.

Defn: See Since. [Obs.]

SETHIC
Seth"ic, a.

Defn: See Sothic.

SETIFEROUS
Se*tif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. seta a bristle + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing, or having one or more, bristles.

SETIFORM
Se"ti*form, a. Etym: [Seta + -form: cf. F. setiforme.]

Defn: Having the form or structure of set?.

SETIGER
Se"ti*ger, n. Etym: [NL. See Setigerous.] (Zool.)

Defn: An annelid having set?; a ch?topod.

SETIGEROUS
Se*tig"er*ous, a. Etym: [Seta + -gerous.]

Defn: Covered with bristles; having or bearing a seta or set?;
setiferous; as, setigerous glands; a setigerous segment of an
annelid; specifically (Bot.), tipped with a bristle.

SETIM
Se"tim, n.

Defn: See Shittim.

SETIPAROUS
Se*tip"a*rous, a. Etym: [Seta + L. papere to produce.] (Zool.)

Defn: Producing set?; -- said of the organs from which the set? of
annelids arise.

SETIREME
Se"ti*reme, n. Etym: [Seta + L. remus an oar.] (Zool.)

Defn: A swimming leg (of an insect) having a fringe of hairs on the
margin.

SETNESS
Set"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being set; formality; obstinacy. "The
starched setness of a sententious writer." R. Masters.

SET-OFF
Set"-off`, n. Etym: [Set + off.]

1. That which is set off against another thing; an offset.
I do not contemplate such a heroine as a set-off to the many sins
imputed to me as committed against woman. D. Jerrold.

2. That which is used to improve the appearance of anything; a
decoration; an ornament.

3. (Law)

Defn: A counterclaim; a cross debt or demand; a distinct claim filed
or set up by the defendant against the plaintiff's demand.

Note: Set-off differs from recoupment, as the latter generally grows
out of the same matter or contract with the plaintiff's claim, while
the former grows out of distinct matter, and does not of itself deny
the justice of the plaintiff's demand. Offset is sometimes improperly
used for the legal term set-off. See Recoupment.

4. (Arch.)

Defn: Same as Offset, n., 4.

5. (Print.)

Defn: See Offset, 7.

Syn.
 -- Set-off, Offset.
 -- Offset originally denoted that which branches off or projects, as
a shoot from a tree, but the term has long been used in America in
the sense of set-off. This use is beginning to obtain in England;
though Macaulay uses set-off, and so, perhaps, do a majority of
English writers.

SETON
Se"ton, n. Etym: [F. seton (cf. It. setone), from L. seta a thick,
stiff hair, a bristle.] (Med. & Far.)

Defn: A few silk threads or horsehairs, or a strip of linen or the
like, introduced beneath the skin by a knife or needle, so as to form
an issue; also, the issue so formed.

SETOSE; SETOUS
Se*tose", Se"tous, a. Etym: [L. setosus, saetosus, from seta, saeta,
bristle: cf. F. seteux.]

Defn: Thickly set with bristles or bristly hairs.

SETOUT
Set"out`, n.

Defn: A display, as of plate, equipage, etc.; that which is
displayed. [Coloq.] Dickens.

SET-STITCHED
Set"-stitched`, a.

Defn: Stitched according to a formal pattern. "An old set-stiched
chair, valanced, and fringed with party-colored worsted bobs."
Sterne.

SETT
Sett, n.

Defn: See Set, n., 2 (e) and 3.

SETTEE
Set*tee", n. Etym: [From Set; cf. Settle a seat.]

Defn: A long seat with a back, -- made to accommodate several persons
at once.

SETTEE
Set*tee", n. Etym: [F. scetie, scitie.] (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel with a very long, sharp prow, carrying two or three
masts with lateen sails, -- used in the Mediterranean. [Written also
setee.]

SETTER
Set"ter, n.

1. One who, or that which, sets; -- used mostly in composition with a
noun, as typesetter; or in combination with an adverb, as a setter on
(or inciter), a setter up, a setter forth.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A hunting dog of a special breed originally derived from a
cross between the spaniel and the pointer. Modern setters are usually
trained to indicate the position of game birds by standing in a fixed
position, but originally they indicated it by sitting or crouching.

Note: There are several distinct varieties of setters; as, the Irish,
or red, setter; the Gordon setter, which is usually red or tan varied
with black; and the English setter, which is variously colored, but
usually white and tawny red, with or without black.

3. One who hunts victims for sharpers. Shak.

4. One who adapts words to music in composition.

5. An adornment; a decoration; -- with off. [Obs.]
They come as . . . setters off of thy graces. Whitlock.

6. (Pottery)

Defn: A shallow seggar for porcelain. Ure.

SETTER
Set"ter, v. t.

Defn: To cut the dewlap (of a cow or an ox), and to insert a seton,
so as to cause an issue. [Prov. Eng.]

SETTERWORT
Set"ter*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The bear's-foot (Helleborus foetidus); -- so called because the
root was used in settering, or inserting setons into the dewlaps of
cattle. Called also pegroots. Dr. Prior.

SETTING
Set"ting, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, sets; as, the setting of type,
or of gems; the setting of the sun; the setting (hardening) of moist
plaster of Paris; the setting (set) of a current.

2. The act of marking the position of game, as a setter does; also,
hunting with a setter. Boyle.

3. Something set in, or inserted.
Thou shalt set in it settings of stones. Ex. xxviii. 17.

4. That in which something, as a gem, is set; as, the gold setting of
a jeweled pin. Setting coat (Arch.), the finishing or last coat of
plastering on walls or ceilings.
 -- Setting dog, a setter. See Setter, n., 2.
 -- Setting pole, a pole, often iron-pointed, used for pushing boats
along in shallow water.
 -- Setting rule. (Print.) A composing rule.

SETTING-UP EXERCISE
Set`ting-up" ex"er*cise.

Defn: Any one of a series of gymnastic exercises used, as in drilling
recruits, for the purpose of giving an erect carriage, supple
muscles, and an easy control of the limbs.

SETTLE
Set"tle, n. Etym: [OE. setel, setil, a seat, AS. setl: akin to OHG.
sezzal, G. sessel, Goth. sitls, and E. sit. sq. root154. See Sit.]

1. A seat of any kind. [Obs.] "Upon the settle of his majesty"
Hampole.

2. A bench; especially, a bench with a high back.

3. A place made lower than the rest; a wide step or platform lower
than some other part.
And from the bottom upon the ground, even to the lower settle, shall
be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit. Ezek. xliii. 14.
Settle bed, a bed convertible into a seat. [Eng.]

SETTLE
Set"tle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Settled; p. pr. & vb. n. Settling.]
Etym: [OE. setlen, AS. setlan. sq. root154. See Settle, n. In senses
7, 8, and 9 perhaps confused with OE. sahtlen to reconcile, AS.
sahtlian, fr. saht reconciliation, sacon to contend, dispute. Cf.
Sake.]

1. To place in a fixed or permanent condition; to make firm, steady,
or stable; to establish; to fix; esp., to establish in life; to fix
in business, in a home, or the like.
And he settled his countenance steadfastly upon him, until he was
ashamed. 2 Kings viii. 11. (Rev. Ver.)
The father thought the time drew on Of setting in the world his only
son. Dryden.

2. To establish in the pastoral office; to ordain or install as
pastor or rector of a church, society, or parish; as, to settle a
minister. [U. S.]

3. To cause to be no longer in a disturbed condition; to render
quiet; to still; to calm; to compose.
God settled then the huge whale-bearing lake. Chapman.
Hoping that sleep might settle his brains. Bunyan.

4. To clear of dregs and impurities by causing them to sink; to
render pure or clear; -- said of a liquid; as, to settle coffee, or
the grounds of coffee.

5. To restore or bring to a smooth, dry, or passable condition; --
said of the ground, of roads, and the like; as, clear weather settles
the roads.

6. To cause to sink; to lower; to depress; hence, also, to render
close or compact; as, to settle the contents of a barrel or bag by
shaking it.

7. To determine, as something which is exposed to doubt or question;
to free from unscertainty or wavering; to make sure, firm, or
constant; to establish; to compose; to quiet; as, to settle the mind
when agitated; to settle questions of law; to settle the succession
to a throne; to settle an allowance.
It will settle the wavering, and confirm the doubtful. Swift.

8. To adjust, as something in discussion; to make up; to compose; to
pacify; as, to settle a quarrel.

9. To adjust, as accounts; to liquidate; to balance; as, to settle an
account.

10. Hence, to pay; as, to settle a bill. [Colloq.] Abbott.

11. To plant with inhabitants; to colonize; to people; as, the French
first settled Canada; the Puritans settled New England; Plymouth was
settled in 1620. To settle on or upon, to confer upon by permanent
grant; to assure to. "I . . . have settled upon him a good annuity."
Addison.
 -- To settle the land (Naut.), to cause it to sink, or appear lower,
by receding from it.

Syn.
 -- To fix; establish; regulate; arrange; compose; adjust; determine;
decide.

SETTLE
Set"tle, v. i.

1. To become fixed or permanent; to become stationary; to establish
one's self or itself; to assume a lasting form, condition, direction,
or the like, in place of a temporary or changing state.
The wind came about and settled in the west. Bacon.
Chyle . . . runs through all the intermediate colors until it settles
in an intense red. Arbuthnot.

2. To fix one's residence; to establish a dwelling place or home; as,
the Saxons who settled in Britain.

3. To enter into the married state, or the state of a householder.
As people marry now and settle. Prior.

4. To be established in an employment or profession; as, to settle in
the practice of law.

5. To become firm, dry, and hard, as the ground after the effects of
rain or frost have disappeared; as, the roads settled late in the
spring.

6. To become clear after being turbid or obscure; to clarify by
depositing matter held in suspension; as, the weather settled; wine
settles by standing.
A government, on such occasions, is always thick before it settles.
Addison.

7. To sink to the bottom; to fall to the bottom, as dregs of a
liquid, or the sediment of a reserveir.

8. To sink gradually to a lower level; to subside, as the foundation
of a house, etc.

9. To become calm; to cease from agitation.
Till the fury of his highness settle, Come not before him. Shak.

10. To adjust differences or accounts; to come to an agreement; as,
he has settled with his creditors.

11. To make a jointure for a wife.
He sighs with most success that settles well. Garth.

SETTLEDNESS
Set"tled*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being settled; confirmed state. [R.]
Bp. Hall.

SETTLEMENT
Set"tle*ment, n.

1. The act of setting, or the state of being settled. Specifically: -
-
(a) Establishment in life, in business, condition, etc.; ordination
or installation as pastor.
Every man living has a design in his head upon wealth power, or
settlement in the world. L'Estrange.

(b) The act of peopling, or state of being peopled; act of planting,
as a colony; colonization; occupation by settlers; as, the settlement
of a new country.

(c) The act or process of adjusting or determining; composure of
doubts or differences; pacification; liquidation of accounts;
arrangement; adjustment; as, settlement of a controversy, of
accounts, etc.
(d) Bestowal, or giving possession, under legal sanction; the act of
giving or conferring anything in a formal and permanent manner.
My flocks, my fields, my woods, my pastures take, With settlement as
good as law can make. Dryden.
(e) (Law)

Defn: A disposition of property for the benefit of some person or
persons, usually through the medium of trustees, and for the benefit
of a wife, children, or other relatives; jointure granted to a wife,
or the act of granting it.

2. That which settles, or is settled, established, or fixed.
Specifically: --
(a) Matter that subsides; settlings; sediment; lees; dregs. [Obs.]
Fuller's earth left a thick settlement. Mortimer.

(b) A colony newly established; a place or region newly settled; as,
settlement in the West.
(c) That which is bestowed formally and permanently; the sum secured
to a person; especially, a jointure made to a woman at her marriage;
also, in the United States, a sum of money or other property formerly
granted to a pastor in additional to his salary.

3. (Arch.)
(a) The gradual sinking of a building, whether by the yielding of the
ground under the foundation, or by the compression of the joints or
the material. (b) pl.

Defn: Fractures or dislocations caused by settlement.

4. (Law)

Defn: A settled place of abode; residence; a right growing out of
residence; legal residence or establishment of a person in a
particular parish or town, which entitles him to maintenance if a
pauper, and subjects the parish or town to his support. Blackstone.
Bouvier. Act of settlement (Eng. Hist.), the statute of 12 and 13
William III, by which the crown was limited to the present reigning
house (the house of Hanover). Blackstone.

SETTLER
Set"tler, n.

1. One who settles, becomes fixed, established, etc.

2. Especially, one who establishes himself in a new region or a
colony; a colonist; a planter; as, the first settlers of New England.

3. That which settles or finishes; hence, a blow, etc., which settles
or decides a contest. [Colloq.]

4. A vessel, as a tub, in which something, as pulverized ore
suspended in a liquid, is allowed to settle.

SETTLING
Set"tling, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, settles; the act of
establishing one's self, of colonizing, subsiding, adjusting, etc.

2. pl.

Defn: That which settles at the bottom of a liquid; lees; dregs;
sediment. Milton. Settling day, a day for settling accounts, as in
the stock market.

SET-TO
Set"-to`, n.

Defn: A contest in boxing, in an argument, or the like. [Colloq.]
Halliwell.

SETULA
Set"u*la, n.; pl. Setul?. Etym: [L. setula, saetula, dim. of seta,
saeta, bristle.]

Defn: A small, short hair or bristle; a small seta.

SETULE
Set"ule, n. Etym: [See Setula.]

Defn: A setula.

SETULOSE
Set"u*lose`, a.

Defn: Having small bristles or set?.

SETWALL
Set"wall`, n. Etym: [CF. Cetewale.] (Bot.)

Defn: A plant formerly valued for its restorative qualities
(Valeriana officinalis, or V. Pyrenaica). [Obs.] [Written also
setwal.] Chaucer.

SEVEN
Sev"en, a. Etym: [OE. seven, seoven, seofen, AS. seofon, seofan,
seofen; akin to D. zeven, OS., Goth., & OHG. sibun, G. sieben, Icel.
sjau, sjo, Sw. sju, Dan. syv, Lith. septyni, Russ. seme, W. saith,
Gael. seachd, Ir. seacht, L. septem, Gr. saptan. sq. root305. Cf.
Hebdomad, Heptagon, September.]

Defn: One more than six; six and one added; as, seven days make one
week. Seven sciences. See the Note under Science, n., 4.
 -- Seven stars (Astron.), the Pleiades.
 -- Seven wonders of the world. See under Wonders.
 -- Seven-year apple (Bot.), a rubiaceous shrub (Genipa clusiifolia)
growing in the West Indies; also, its edible fruit.
 -- Seven-year vine (Bot.), a tropical climbing plant (Ipomoea
tuberosa) related to the morning-glory.

SEVEN
Sev"en, n.

1. The number greater by one than six; seven units or objects.
Of every beast, and bird, and insect small, Game sevens and pairs.
Milton.

2. A symbol representing seven units, as 7, or vii.

SEVENFOLD
Sev"en*fold`, a.

Defn: Repeated seven times; having seven thicknesses; increased to
seven times the size or amount. "Sevenfold rage." Milton.

SEVENFOLD
Sev"en*fold`, adv.

Defn: Seven times as much or as often.
Whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold.
Gen. iv. 15.

SEVENNIGHT
Seven"night, n.

Defn: A week; any period of seven consecutive days and nights. See
Sennight.

SEVENSCORE
Sev"en*score`, n. & a.

Defn: Seven times twenty, that is, a hundred and forty.
The old Countess of Desmond . . . lived sevenscore years. Bacon.

SEVEN-SHOOTER
Sev"en-shoot`er, n.

Defn: A firearm, esp. a pistol, with seven barrels or chambers for
cartridges, or one capable of firing seven shots without reloading.
[Colloq.]

SEVENTEEN
Sev"en*teen`, a. Etym: [OE. seventene, AS. seofontyne, i. e., seven-
ten. Cf. Seventy.]

Defn: One more than sixteen; ten and seven added; as, seventeen
years.

SEVENTEEN
Sev"en*teen`, n.

1. The number greater by one than sixteen; the sum of ten and seven;
seventeen units or objects.

2. A symbol denoting seventeen units, as 17, or xvii.

SEVENTEENTH
Sev"en*teenth`, a. Etym: [From Seventeen: cf. AS. seofonteoedha,
seofonteogeedha.]

1. Next in order after the sixteenth; coming after sixteen others.
In . . . the seventeenth day of the month . . . were all the
fountains of the great deep broken up. Gen. vii. 11.

2. Constituting or being one of seventeen equal parts into which
anything is divided.

SEVENTEENTH
Sev"en*teenth`, n.

1. The next in order after the sixteenth; one coming after sixteen
others.

2. The quotient of a unit divided by seventeen; one of seventeen
equal parts or divisions of one whole.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: An interval of two octaves and a third.

SEVENTH
Sev"enth, a. Etym: [From Seven: cf. AS. seofoedha.]

1. Next in order after the sixth;; coming after six others.
On the seventh day, God ended his work which he had made; and he
rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. Gen.
ii. 2.

2. Constituting or being one of seven equal parts into which anything
is divided; as, the seventh part. Seventh day, the seventh day of the
week; Saturday.
 -- Seventh-day Baptists. See under Baptist.

SEVENTH
Sev"enth, n.

1. One next in order after the sixth; one coming after six others.

2. The quotient of a unit divided by seven; one of seven equal parts
into which anything is divided.

3. (Mus.)
(a) An interval embracing seven diatonic degrees of the scale.
(b) A chord which includes the interval of a seventh whether major,
minor, or diminished.

SEVEN-THIRTIES
Sev`en-thir"ties, n. pl.

Defn: A name given to three several issues of United States Treasury
notes, made during the Civil War, in denominations of $50 and over,
bearing interest at the rate of seven and three tenths (thirty
hundredths) per cent annually. Within a few years they were all
redeemed or funded.

SEVENTHLY
Sev"enth*ly, adv.

Defn: In the seventh place.

SEVENTIETH
Sev"en*ti*eth, a. Etym: [AS. hund-seofontigoedha.]

1. Next in order after the sixty-ninth; as, a man in the seventieth
year of his age.

2. Constituting or being one of seventy equal parts.

SEVENTIETH
Sev"en*ti*eth, n.

1. One next in order after the sixty-ninth.

2. The quotient of a unit divided by seventy; one of seventy equal
parts or fractions.

SEVENTY
Sev"en*ty, a. Etym: [AS. hund-seofontig. See Seven, and Ten, and cf.
Seventeen, Sixty.]

Defn: Seven times ten; one more than sixty-nine.

SEVENTY
Sev"en*ty, n.; pl. Seventies (.

1. The sum of seven times ten; seventy units or objects.

2. A symbol representing seventy units, as 70, or lxx. The Seventy,
the translators of the Greek version of the Old Testament called the
Septuagint. See Septuagint.

SEVENTY-FOUR
Sev`en*ty-four", n. (Naut.)

Defn: A naval vessel carrying seventy-four guns.

SEVEN-UP
Sev"en-up`, n.

Defn: The game of cards called also all fours, and old sledge. [U.
S.]

SEVER
Sev"er, v. t. [imp. &. p. p. Severed; p. pr. & vb. n. Severing.]
Etym: [OF. sevrer, severer, to separate, F. sevrer to wean, fr. L.
separare. See Separate, and cf. Several.]

1. To separate, as one from another; to cut off from something; to
divide; to part in any way, especially by violence, as by cutting,
rending, etc.; as, to sever the head from the body.
The angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from among the
just. Matt. xiii. 49.

2. To cut or break open or apart; to divide into parts; to cut
through; to disjoin; as, to sever the arm or leg.
Our state can not be severed; we are one. Milton.

3. To keep distinct or apart; to except; to exempt.
I will sever in that day the land of Goshen, in which my people
dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there. Ex. viii. 22.

4. (Law)

Defn: To disunite; to disconnect; to terminate; as, to sever an
estate in joint tenancy. Blackstone.

SEVER
Sev"er, v. i.

1. To suffer disjunction; to be parted, or rent asunder; to be
separated; to part; to separate. Shak.

2. To make a separation or distinction; to distinguish.
The Lord shall sever between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of
Egypt. Ex. ix. 4.
They claimed the right of severing in their challenge. Macaulay.

SEVERABLE
Sev"er*a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being severed. Encyc. Dict.

SEVERAL
Sev"er*al, a. Etym: [OF., fr. LL. separalis, fr. L. separ separate,
different. See Sever, Separate.]

1. Separate; distinct; particular; single.
Each several ship a victory did gain. Dryden.
Each might his several province well command, Would all but stoop to
what they understand. Pope.

2. Diverse; different; various. Spenser.
Habits and faculties, several, and to be distinguished. Bacon.
Four several armies to the field are led. Dryden.

3. Consisting of a number more than two, but not very many; divers;
sundry; as, several persons were present when the event took place.

SEVERAL
Sev"er*al, adv.

Defn: By itself; severally. [Obs.]
Every kind of thing is laid up several in barns or storehoudses.
Robynson (More's Utopia).

SEVERAL
Sev"er*al, n.

1. Each particular taken singly; an item; a detail; an individual.
[Obs.]
There was not time enough to hear . . . The severals. Shak.

2. Persons oe objects, more than two, but not very many.
Several of them neither rose from any conspicuous family, nor left
any behind them. Addison.

3. An inclosed or separate place; inclosure. [Obs.]
They had their several for heathen nations, their several for the
people of their own nation. Hooker.
In several, in a state of separation. [R.] "Where pastures in several
be." Tusser.

SEVERALITY
Sev`er*al"i*ty, n.; pl. Severalities (.

Defn: Each particular taken singly; distinction. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SEVERALIZE
Sev"er*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To distinguish. [Obs.]

SEVERALLY
Sev"er*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Separately; distinctly; apart from others; individually.
There must be an auditor to check and revise each severally by
itself. De Quincey.

SEVERALTY
Sev"er*al*ty, n.

Defn: A state of separation from the rest, or from all others; a
holding by individual right.
Forests which had never been owned in severalty. Bancroft.
Estate in severalty (Law), an estate which the tenant holds in his
own right, without being joined in interest with any other person; --
distinguished from joint tenancy, coparcenary, and common.
Blackstone.

SEVERANCE
Sev"er*ance, n.

1. The act of severing, or the state of being severed; partition;
separation. Milman.

2. (Law)

Defn: The act of dividing; the singling or severing of two or more
that join, or are joined, in one writ; the putting in several or
separate pleas or answers by two or more disjointly; the destruction
of the unity of interest in a joint estate. Bouvier.

SEVERE
Se*vere", a. [Compar. Severer; superl. Severest.] Etym: [L. severus;
perhaps akin to Gr. swikns innocent, chaste: cf. F. severe. Cf.
Asseverate, Persevere.]

1. Serious in feeeling or manner; sedate; grave; austere; not light,
lively, or cheerful.
Your looks alter, as your subject does, From kind to fierce, from
wanton to severe. Waller.

2. Very strict in judgment, discipline, or government; harsh; not
mild or indulgent; rigorous; as, severe criticism; severe punishment.
"Custody severe." Milton.
Come! you are too severe a moraler. Shak.
Let your zeal, if it must be expressed in anger, be always more
severe against thyself than against others. Jer. Taylor.

3. Rigidly methodical, or adherent to rule or principle; exactly
conformed to a standard; not allowing or employing unneccessary
ornament, amplification, etc.; strict; -- said of style, argument,
etc. "Restrained by reason and severe principles." Jer. Taylor.
The Latin, a most severe and compendious language. Dryden.

4. Sharp; afflictive; distressing; violent; extreme; as, severe pain,
anguish, fortune; severe cold.

5. Difficult to be endured; exact; critical; rigorous; as, a severe
test.

Syn.
 -- Strict; grave; austere; stern; morose; rigid; exact; rigorous;
hard; rough; harsh; censorious; tart; acrimonious; sarcastic;
satirical; cutting; biting; keen; bitter; cruel. See Strict.
 -- Se*vere"ly, adv.
 -- Se*vere"ness, n.

SEVERITY
Se*ver"i*ty, n.; pl. Severities. Etym: [L. severitas: cf. F.
severite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being severe. Specifically: --
(a) Gravity or austerity; extreme strictness; rigor; harshness; as,
the severity of a reprimand or a reproof; severity of discipline or
government; severity of penalties. "Strict age, and sour severity."
Milton.
(b) The quality or power of distressing or paining; extreme degree;
extremity; intensity; inclemency; as, the severity of pain or
anguish; the severity of cold or heat; the severity of the winter.
(c) Harshness; cruel treatment; sharpness of punishment; as, severity
practiced on prisoners of war.
(d) Exactness; rigorousness; strictness; as, the severity of a test.
Confining myself to the severity of truth. Dryden.

SEVERY
Sev"er*y, n. Etym: [Prob. corrupted fr. ciborium. Oxf. Gloss.]
(Arch.)

Defn: A bay or compartment of a vaulted ceiling. [Written also
civery.]

SEVOCATION
Sev`o*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. sevocare, sevocatum, to call aside.]

Defn: A calling aside. [Obs.]

SEVRES BLUE
Se"vres blue`.

Defn: A very light blue.

SEVRES WARE
Se"vres ware`.

Defn: Porcelain manufactured at Sevres, France, ecpecially in the
national factory situated there.

SEW
Sew, n.Etym: [OE. See Sewer household officer.]

Defn: Juice; gravy; a seasoned dish; a delicacy. [Obs.] Gower.
I will not tell of their strange sewes. Chaucer.

SEW
Sew, v. t. Etym: [See Sue to follow.]

Defn: To follow; to pursue; to sue. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spenser.

SEW
Sew, v. t. [imp. Sewed; p. p. Sewed, rarely Sewn (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sewing.] Etym: [OE. sewen, sowen, AS. siowian, siwian; akin to OHG.
siuwan, Icel. s, Sw. sy, Dan. sye, Goth. siujan, Lith. siuti, Russ,
shite, L. ssuere, Gr. siv. sq. root156. Cf. Seam a suture, Suture.]

1. To unite or fasten together by stitches, as with a needle and
thread.
No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment. Mark ii.
21.

2. To close or stop by ssewing; -- often with up; as, to sew up a
rip.

3. To inclose by sewing; -- sometimes with up; as, to sew money in a
bag.

SEW
Sew, v. i.

Defn: To practice sewing; to work with needle and thread.

SEW
Sew, v. t. Etym: [sq. root151 b. See Sewer a drain.]

Defn: To drain, as a pond, for taking the fish. [Obs.] Tusser.

SEWAGE
Sew"age, n.

1. The contents of a sewer or drain; refuse liquids or matter carried
off by sewers

2. Sewerage, 2.

SEWE
Sewe, v. i.

Defn: To perform the duties of a sewer. See 3d Sewer. [Obs.]

SEWEL
Sew"el, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A scarecrow, generally made of feathers tied to a string, hung
up to prevent deer from breaking into a place. Halliwell.

SEWELLEL
Se*wel"lel, n. Etym: [Of American Indian origin.] (Zool.)

Defn: A peculiar gregarious burrowing rodent (Haplodon rufus), native
of the coast region of the Northwestern United States. It somewhat
resembles a muskrat or marmot, but has only a rudimentary tail. Its
head is broad, its eyes are small and its fur is brownish above, gray
beneath. It constitutes the family Haplodontid?. Called also boomer,
showt'l, and mountain beaver.

SEWEN
Sew"en, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A British trout usually regarded as a variety (var. Cambricus)
of the salmon trout.

SEWER
Sew"er, n.

1. One who sews, or stitches.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A small tortricid moth whose larva sews together the edges of a
leaf by means of silk; as, the apple-leaf sewer (Phoxopteris
nubeculana)

SEWER
Sew"er, n. Etym: [OF. sewiere, seuwiere, ultimately fr. L. ex out + a
derivative of aqua water; cf. OF. essevour a drain, essever,
esseuwer, essiaver, to cause to flow, to drain, to flow, LL.
exaquatorium a channel through which water runs off. Cf. Ewer,
Aquarium.]

Defn: A drain or passage to carry off water and filth under ground; a
subterraneous channel, particularly in cities.

SEWER
Sew"er, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. assewer, and asseour, OF. asseour, F.
asseoir to seat, to set, L. assidere to sit by; ad + sedere to sit
(cf. Sit); or cf. OE. sew pottage, sauce, boiled meat, AS. seaw
juice, Skr. su to press out.]

Defn: Formerly, an upper servant, or household officer, who set on
and removed the dishes at a feast, and who also brought water for the
hands of the guests.
Then the sewer Poured water from a great and golden ewer, That from
their hands to a silver caldron ran. Chapman.

SEWERAGE
Sew"er*age, n.

1. The construction of a sewer or sewers.

2. The system of sewers in a city, town, etc.; the general drainage
of a city or town by means of sewers.

3. The material collected in, and discharged by, sewers. [In this
sense sewage is preferable and common.]

SEWIN
Sew"in, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Sewen.

SEWING
Sew"ing, n.

1. The act or occupation of one who sews.

2. That which is sewed with the needle. Sewing horse (Harness
making), a clamp, operated by the foot, for holding pieces of leather
while being sewed.
 -- Sewing machine, a machine for sewing or stitching.
 -- Sewing press, or Sewing table (Bookbinding), a fixture or table
having a frame in which are held the cords to which the back edges of
folded sheets are sewed to form a book.

SEWSTER
Sew"ster, n.

Defn: A seamstress. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SEX-
Sex-. Etym: [L. sex six. See Six.]

Defn: A combining form meaning six; as, sexdigitism; sexennial.

SEX
Sex, n. Etym: [L. sexus: cf. F. sexe.]

1. The distinguishing peculiarity of male or female in both animals
and plants; the physical difference between male and female; the
assemblage of properties or qualities by which male is distinguished
from female.

2. One of the two divisions of organic beings formed on the
distinction of male and female.

3. (Bot.)
(a) The capability in plants of fertilizing or of being fertilized;
as, staminate and pistillate flowers are of opposite sexes.
(b) One of the groups founded on this distinction. The sex, the
female sex; women, in general.

SEXAGENARIAN
Sex`a*ge*na"ri*an, n. Etym: [See Sexagenary.]

Defn: A person who is sixty years old.

SEXAGENARY
Sex*ag"e*na*ry, a. Etym: [L. sexagenarius, fr. sexageni sixty each,
akin to sexaginta sixty, sex six: cf. sexagenaire. See Six.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or designating, the number sixty; poceeding by
sixties; sixty years old. Sexagenary arithmetic. See under
Sexagesimal.
 -- Sexagenary, or Sexagesimal, scale (Math.), a scale of numbers in
which the modulus is sixty. It is used in treating the divisions of
the circle.

SEXAGENARY
Sex*ag"e*na*ry, n.

1. Something composed of sixty parts or divisions.

2. A sexagenarian. Sir W. Scott.

SEXAGESIMA
Sex`a*ges"i*ma, n. Etym: [L., fem. of sexagesimus sixtieth, fr.
sexaginta sixty.] (Eccl.)

Defn: The second Sunday before Lent; -- so called as being about the
sixtieth day before Easter.

SEXAGESIMAL
Sex`a*ges"i*mal, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sexagesimal.]

Defn: Pertaining to, or founded on, the number sixty. Sexagesimal
fractions or numbers (Arith. & Alg.), those fractions whose
denominators are some power of sixty; as, astronomical fractions,
because formerly there were no others used in astronomical
calculations.
 -- Sexagesimal, or Sexagenary, arithmetic, the method of computing
by the sexagenary scale, or by sixties.
 -- Sexagesimal scale (Math.), the sexagenary scale.

SEXAGESIMAL
Sex`a*ges"i*mal, n.

Defn: A sexagesimal fraction.

SEXANGLE
Sex"an`gle, n. Etym: [L. sexangulus sexangular; sex six + angulus
angle: cf. F. sexangle. Cf. Hexangular.] (Geom.)

Defn: A hexagon. [R.] Hutton.

SEXANGLED; SEXANGULAR
Sex"an`gled, Sex*an"gu*lar a. Etym: [Cf. F. sexangulaire.]

Defn: Having six angles; hexagonal. [R.] Dryden.

SEXANGULARLY
Sex*an"gu*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: Hexagonally. [R.]

SEXAVALENT
Sex*av"a*lent, a.

Defn: See Sexivalent. [R.]

SEXDIGITISM
Sex*dig"it*ism, n. Etym: [Sex- + digit.]

Defn: The state of having six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a
foot.

SEXDIGITIST
Sex*dig"it*ist, n.

Defn: One who has six fingers on a hand, or six toes on a foot.

SEXED
Sexed, a.

Defn: Belonging to sex; having sex; distinctively male of female; as,
the sexed condition.

SEXENARY
Sex"e*na*ry, a.

Defn: Proceeding by sixes; sextuple; -- applied especially to a
system of arithmetical computation in which the base is six.

SEXENNIAL
Sex*en"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. sexennium a period of six years, sexennis
of six years; sex six + annus a year. See Six, and Annual.]

Defn: Lasting six years, or happening once in six years.
 -- n.

Defn: A sexennial event.

SEXENNIALLY
Sex*en"ni*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Once in six years.

SEXFID; SEXIFID
Sex"fid, Sex"i*fid, a. Etym: [Sex- + root of L. findere to split: cf.
F. sexfide.] (Bot.)

Defn: Six-cleft; as, a sexfid calyx or nectary.

SEXISYLLABIC
Sex`i*syl*lab"ic, a. Etym: [Sex- + syllabic.]

Defn: Having six syllables. Emerson.

SEXISYLLABLE
Sex"i*syl`la*ble, n. Etym: [Sex- + syllable.]

Defn: A word of six syllables.

SEXIVALENT
Sex*iv"a*lent, a. Etym: [Sex- + L. valens, p. pr. See Valence.]
(hem.)

Defn: Hexavalent. [R.]

SEXLESS
Sex"less, a.

Defn: Having no sex.

SEXLOCULAR
Sex`loc"u*lar, a. Etym: [Sex- + locular: cf. F. sexloculaire.] (Bot.)

Defn: Having six cells for seeds; six-celled; as, a sexlocular
pericarp.

SEXLY
Sex"ly, a.

Defn: Pertaining to sex. [R.]
Should I ascribe any of these things unto myself or my sexly
weakness, I were not worthy to live. Queen Elizabeth.

SEXRADIATE
Sex*ra"di*ate, a. Etym: [Sex- + radiate.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having six rays; -- said of certain sponge spicules. See
Illust. of Spicule.

SEXT
Sext, n. Etym: [L. sexta, fem. of sextus sixtt, fr. sex six: cf. F.
sexte.] (R.C.Ch.)
(a) The office for the sixth canonical hour, being a part of the
Breviary.
(b) The sixth book of the decretals, added by Pope Boniface VIII.

SEXTAIN
Sex"tain, n. Etym: [L. sextus sixth, fr. sex six: cf. It. sestina.]
(Pros.)

Defn: A stanza of six lines; a sestine.

SEXTANS
Sex"tans, n. Etym: [L. See Sextant.]

1. (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: A Roman coin, the sixth part of an as.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A constellation on the equator south of Leo; the Sextant.

SEXTANT
Sex"tant, n. Etym: [L. sextans, -antis, the sixth part of an as, fr.
sextus sixth, sex six. See Six.]

1. (Math.)

Defn: The sixth part of a circle.

2. An instrument for measuring angular distances between objects, --
used esp. at sea, for ascertaining the latitude and longitude. It is
constructed on the same optical principle as Hadley's quadrant, but
usually of metal, with a nicer graduation, telescopic sight, and its
arc the sixth, and sometimes the third, part of a circle. See
Quadrant.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: The constellation Sextans. Box sextant, a small sextant
inclosed in a cylindrical case to make it more portable.

SEXTARY
Sex"ta*ry, n.; pl. Sextaries. Etym: [L. sextarius the sixth part of a
measure, weight, etc., fr. sextus sixth, sex six.] (Rom. Antiq.)

Defn: An ancient Roman liquid and dry measure, about equal to an
English pint.

SEXTARY
Sex"ta*ry, n. Etym: [For sextonry.]

Defn: A sacristy. [Obs.]

SEXTET; SEXTETTO
Sex*tet", Sex*tet"to, n. (Mus.)

Defn: See Sestet.

SEXTEYN
Sex"teyn, n.

Defn: A sacristan. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SEXTIC
Sex"tic, a. Etym: [L. sextus sixth.] (Math.)

Defn: Of the sixth degree or order.
 -- n. (Alg.)

Defn: A quantic of the sixth degree.

SEXTILE
Sex"tile, a. Etym: [F. sextil, fr. L. sextus the sixth, from sex six.
See Six.] (Astrol.)

Defn: Measured by sixty degrees; fixed or indicated by a distance of
sixty degrees. Glanvill.

SEXTILE
Sex"tile, n. Etym: [Cf. F. aspect sextil.] (Astrol.)

Defn: The aspect or position of two planets when distant from each
other sixty degrees, or two signs. This position is marked thus:
Hutton.

SEXTILLION
Sex*til"lion, n. Etym: [Formed (in imitation of million) fr. L.
sextus sixth, sex six: cf. F. sextilion.]

Defn: According to the method of numeration (which is followed also
in the United States), the number expressed by a unit with twenty-one
ciphers annexed. According to the English method, a million raised to
the sixth power, or the number expressed by a unit with thirty-six
ciphers annexed. See Numeration.

SEXTO
Sex"to, n.; pl. Sextos. Etym: [L. sextus sixth.]

Defn: A book consisting of sheets each of which is folded into six
leaves.

SEXTODECIMO
Sex`to*dec"i*mo, a. Etym: [L. sextus-decimus the sixteenth; sextus
the sixth (fr. sex six) + decimus the tenth, from decem ten. See -
mo.]

Defn: Having sixteen leaves to a sheet; of, or equal to, the size of
one fold of a sheet of printing paper when folded so as to make
sixteen leaves, or thirty-two pages; as, a sextodecimo volume.

SEXTODECIMO
Sex`to*dec"imo, n.; pl. Sextodecimos (.

Defn: A book composed of sheets each of which is folded into sixteen
leaves; hence, indicating, more or less definitely, a size of a book;
-- usually written 16mo, or 16?.

SEXTOLET
Sex"to*let, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A double triplet; a group of six equal notes played in the time
of four.

SEXTON
Sex"ton, n. Etym: [OE. sextein, contr. fr. sacristan.]

Defn: An under officer of a church, whose business is to take care of
the church building and the vessels, vestments, etc., belonging to
the church, to attend on the officiating clergyman, and to perform
other duties pertaining to the church, such as to dig graves, ring
the bell, etc. Sexton beetle (Zool.), a burying beetle.

SEXTONESS
Sex"ton*ess, n.

Defn: A female sexton; a sexton's wife.

SEXTONRY
Sex"ton*ry, n.

Defn: Sextonship. [Obs.] Ld. Bernes.

SEXTONSHIP
Sex"ton*ship, n.

Defn: The office of a sexton. Swift.

SEXTRY
Sex"try, n.

Defn: See Sacristy. [Obs.]

SEXTUPLE
Sex"tu*ple, a. Etym: [Formed (in imitation of quadruple) fr. L.
sextus sixth: cf. F. sextuple.]

1. Six times as much; sixfold.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: Divisible by six; having six beats; as, sixtuple measure.

SEXUAL
Sex"u*al, a. Etym: [L. sexualis, fr. sexus sex: cf. F. sexuel.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to sex, or the sexes; distinguishing sex;
peculiar to the distinction and office of male or female; relating to
the distinctive genital organs of the sexes; proceeding from, or
based upon, sex; as, sexual characteristics; sexual intercourse,
connection, or commerce; sexual desire; sexual diseases; sexual
generation. Sexual dimorphism (Biol.), the condition of having one of
the sexes existing in two forms, or varieties, differing in color,
size, etc., as in many species of butterflies which have two kinds of
females.
 -- Sexual method (Bot.), a method of classification proposed by
Linn?us, founded mainly on difference in number and position of the
stamens and pistils of plants.
 -- Sexual selection (Biol.), the selective preference of one sex for
certain characteristics in the other, such as bright colors, musical
notes, etc.; also, the selection which results from certain
individuals of one sex having more opportunities of pairing with the
other sex, on account of greater activity, strength, courage, etc.;
applied likewise to that kind of evolution which results from such
sexual preferences. Darwin.
In these cases, therefore, natural selection seems to have acted
independently of sexual selection. A. R. Wallace.

SEXUALIST
Sex"u*al*ist, n. (Bot.)

Defn: One who classifies plants by the sexual method of Linn?us.

SEXUALITY
Sex`u*al"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being distinguished by sex. Lindley.

SEXUALIZE
Sex"u*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To attribute sex to.

SEXUALLY
Sex"u*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sexual manner or relation.

SEY; SEYH
Sey, Seyh, obs. imp. sing. & 2d pers. pl.

Defn: of See. Chaucer.

SEYE; SEYEN
Seye, Seyen, obs. imp. pl. & p. p.

Defn: of See.

SEYND
Seynd, obs. p. p.

Defn: of Senge, to singe. Chaucer.

SEYNT
Seynt, n.

Defn: A gridle. See 1st Seint. [Obs.]

SFORZANDO; SFORZATO
Sfor*zan"do, Sfor*za"to, a. Etym: [It. sforzando, p. pr., and
sforzato, p. p. of sforzare to force.] (Mus.)

Defn: Forcing or forced; -- a direction placed over a note, to
signify that it must be executed with peculiar emphasis and force; --
marked fz (an abbreviation of forzando), sf, sfz, or

SFUMATO
Sfu*ma"to, a. Etym: [It.] (Paint.)

Defn: Having vague outlines, and colors and shades so mingled as to
give a misty appearance; -- said of a painting.

SGRAFFITO
Sgraf*fi"to, a. Etym: [It.] (Paint.)

Defn: Scratched; -- said of decorative painting of a certain style,
in which a white overland surface is cut or scratched through, so as
to form the design from a dark ground underneath.

SHAB
Shab, n. Etym: [OE. shabbe, AS. sc. See Scab.]

Defn: The itch in animals; also, a scab. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SHAB
Shab, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shabbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Shabbing.] Etym:
[See Scab, 3.]

Defn: To play mean tricks; to act shabbily. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.]

SHAB
Shab, v. t.

Defn: To scratch; to rub. [Obs.] Farquhar.

SHABBED
Shab"bed, a.

Defn: Shabby. [Obs.] Wood.

SHABBILY
Shab"bi*ly, adv.

Defn: In a shabby manner.

SHABBINESS
Shab"bi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sghabby.

SHABBLE; SHABBLE
Shab"ble, Shab"ble, n.Etym: [Cf. D. sabel, and G. sabel.]

Defn: A kind of crooked sword or hanger. [Scot.]

SHABBY
Shab"by, a. [Compar. Shabbier; superl. Shabbiest.] Etym: [See Shab,
n., Scabby, and Scab.]

1. Torn or worn to rage; poor; mean; ragged.
Wearing shabby coats and dirty shirts. Macaulay.

2. Clothed with ragged, much worn, or soiled garments. "The dean was
so shabby." Swift.

3. Mean; paltry; despicable; as, shabby treatment. "Very shabby
fellows." Clarendon.

SHABRACK
Shab"rack, n. Etym: [Turk. tshaprak, whence F. chabraque, G.
shabracke.] (Mil.)

Defn: The saddlecloth or housing of a cavalry horse.

SHACK
Shack, v. t. Etym: [Prov. E., to shake, to shed. See Shake.]

1. To shed or fall, as corn or grain at harvest. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.

2. To feed in stubble, or upon waste corn. [Prov. Eng.]

3. To wander as a vagabond or a tramp. [Prev.Eng.]

SHACK
Shack, n. Etym: [Cf. Scot. shag refuse of barley or oats.]

1. The grain left after harvest or gleaning; also, nuts which have
fallen to the ground. [Prov. Eng.]

2. Liberty of winter pasturage. [Prov. Eng.]

3. A shiftless fellow; a low, itinerant beggar; a vagabond; a tramp.
[Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.] Forby.
All the poor old shacks about the town found a friend in Deacon
Marble. H. W. Beecher.
Common of shack (Eng.Law), the right of persons occupying lands lying
together in the same common field to turn out their cattle to range
in it after harvest. Cowell.

SHACKATORY
Shack"a*to*ry, n.

Defn: A hound. [Obs.]

SHACKLE
Shac"kle, n.

Defn: Stubble. [Prov. Eng.] Pegge.

SHACKLE
Shac"kle, n. Etym: [Generally used in the plural.] Etym: [OE.
schakkyll, schakle, AS. scacul, sceacul, a shackle, fr. scacan to
shake; cf. D. schakel a link of a chain, a mesh, Icel. skokull the
pole of a cart. See Shake.]

1. Something which confines the legs or arms so as to prevent their
free motion; specifically, a ring or band inclosing the ankle or
wrist, and fastened to a similar shackle on the other leg or arm, or
to something else, by a chain or a strap; a gyve; a fetter.
His shackles empty left; himself escaped clean. Spenser.

2. Hence, that which checks or prevents free action.
His very will seems to be in bonds and shackles. South.

3. A fetterlike band worn as an ornament.
Most of the men and women . . . had all earrings made of gold, and
gold shackles about their legs and arms. Dampier.

4. A link or loop, as in a chain, fitted with a movable bolt, so that
the parts can be separated, or the loop removed; a clevis.

5. A link for connecting railroad cars; -- called also drawlink,
draglink, etc.

6. The hinged and curved bar of a padlock, by which it is hung to the
staple. Knight. Shackle joint (Anat.), a joint formed by a bony ring
passing through a hole in a bone, as at the bases of spines in some
fishes.

SHACKLE
Shac"kle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shackled; p. pr. & vb. n. Shackling.]

1. To tie or confine the limbs of, so as to prevent free motion; to
bind with shackles; to fetter; to chain.
To lead him shackled, and exposed to scorn Of gathering crowds, the
Britons' boasted chief. J. Philips.

2. Figuratively: To bind or confine so as to prevent or embarrass
action; to impede; to cumber.
Shackled by her devotion to the king, she seldom could pursue that
object. Walpole.

3. To join by a link or chain, as railroad cars. [U. S.] Shackle bar,
the coupling between a locomotive and its tender. [U.S.] -- Shackle
bolt, a shackle. Sir W. Scott.

SHACKLOCK
Shack"lock`, n.

Defn: A sort of shackle. [Obs.]

SHACKLY
Shack"ly, a.

Defn: Shaky; rickety. [Colloq. U. S.]

SHAD
Shad, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [AS. sceadda a kind of fish, akin to Prov.
G. schade; cf. Ir. & Gael. sgadan a herring, W. ysgadan herrings; all
perhaps akin to E. skate a fish.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of food fishes of the Herring
family. The American species (Clupea sapidissima), which is abundant
on the Atlantic coast and ascends the larger rivers in spring to
spawn, is an important market fish. The European allice shad, or
alose (C. alosa), and the twaite shad. (C. finta), are less important
species. [Written also chad.]

Note: The name is loosely applied, also, to several other fishes, as
the gizzard shad (see under Gizzard), called also mud shad, white-
eyed shad, and winter shad. Hardboaded, or Yellow-tailed, shad, the
menhaden.
 -- Hickory, or Tailor, shad, the mattowacca.
 -- Long-boned shad, one of several species of important food fishes
of the Bermudas and the West Indies, of the genus Gerres.
 -- Shad bush (Bot.), a name given to the North American shrubs or
small trees of the rosaceous genus Amelanchier (A. Canadensis, and A.
alnifolia) Their white racemose blossoms open in April or May, when
the shad appear, and the edible berries (pomes) ripen in June or
July, whence they are called Juneberries. The plant is also called
service tree, and Juneberry.
 -- Shad frog, an American spotted frog (Rana halecina); -- so called
because it usually appears at the time when the shad begin to run in
the rivers.
 -- Trout shad, the squeteague.
 -- White shad,the common shad.

SHADBIRD
Shad"bird`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The American, or Wilson's, snipe. See under Snipe. So called
because it appears at the same time as the shad.
(b) The common European sandpiper. [Prov. Eng.]

SHADD
Shadd, n. (Mining.)

Defn: Rounded stones containing tin ore, lying at the surface of the
ground, and indicating a vein. Raymond.

SHADDE
Shad"de,

Defn: obs. imp. of Shed. Chaucer.

SHADDOCK
Shad"dock, n. Etym: [Said to be so called from a Captain Shaddock,
who first brought this fruit from the East Indies.] (Bot.)

Defn: A tree (Citrus decumana) and its fruit, which is a large
species of orange; -- called also forbidden fruit, and pompelmous.

SHADE
Shade, n. Etym: [OE. shade, shadewe, schadewe, AS. sceadu, scead;
akin to OS. skado, D. schaduw, OHG. scato, (gen. scatewes), G.
schatten, Goth. skadus, Ir. & Gael. sgath, and probably to Gr.
Shadow, Shed a hat.]

1. Comparative obscurity owing to interception or interruption of the
rays of light; partial darkness caused by the intervention of
something between the space contemplated and the source of light.

Note: Shade differs from shadow as it implies no particular form or
definite limit; whereas a shadow represents in form the object which
intercepts the light. When we speak of the shade of a tree, we have
no reference to its form; but when we speak of measuring a pyramid or
other object by its shadow, we have reference to its form and extent.

2. Darkness; obscurity; -- often in the plural.
The shades of night were falling fast. Longfellow.

3. An obscure place; a spot not exposed to light; hence, a secluded
retreat.
Let us seek out some desolate shade, and there Weep our sad bosoms
empty. Shak.

4. That which intercepts, or shelters from, light or the direct rays
of the sun; hence, also, that which protects from heat or currents of
air; a screen; protection; shelter; cover; as, a lamp shade.
The Lord is thy shade upon thy right hand. Ps. cxxi. 5.
Sleep under a fresh tree's shade. Shak.
Let the arched knife well sharpened now assail the spreading shades
of vegetables. J. Philips.

5. Shadow. [Poetic.]
Envy will merit, as its shade, pursue. Pope.

6. The soul after its separation from the body; -- so called because
the ancients it to be perceptible to the sight, though not to the
touch; a spirit; a ghost; as, the shades of departed heroes.
Swift as thought the flitting shade Thro' air his momentary journey
made. Dryden.

7. (Painting, Drawing, etc.)

Defn: The darker portion of a picture; a less illuminated part. See
Def. 1, above.

8. Degree or variation of color, as darker or lighter, stronger or
paler; as, a delicate shade of pink.
White, red, yellow, blue, with their several degrees, or shades and
mixtures, as green only in by the eyes. Locke.

9. A minute difference or variation, as of thought, belief,
expression, etc.; also, the quality or degree of anything which is
distinguished from others similar by slight differences; as, the
shades of meaning in synonyms.
New shades and combinations of thought. De Quincey.
Every shade of religious and political opinion has its own
headquarters. Macaulay.
The Shades, the Nether World; the supposed abode of souls after
leaving the body.

SHADE
Shade, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Shading.]

1. To shelter or screen by intercepting the rays of light; to keep
off illumination from. Milton.
I went to crop the sylvan scenes, And shade our altars with their
leafy greens. Dryden.

2. To shelter; to cover from injury; to protect; to screen; to hide;
as, to shade one's eyes.
Ere in our own house I do shade my head. Shak.

3. To obscure; to dim the brightness of.
Thou shad'st The full blaze of thy beams. Milton.

4. To pain in obscure colors; to darken.

5. To mark with gradations of light or color.

6. To present a shadow or image of; to shadow forth; to represent.
[Obs.]
[The goddess] in her person cunningly did shade That part of Justice
which is Equity. Spenser.

SHADEFUL
Shade"ful, a.

Defn: Full of shade; shady.

SHADELESS
Shade"less, a.

Defn: Being without shade; not shaded.

SHADER
Shad"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, shades.

SHADILY
Shad"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a shady manner.

SHADINESS
Shad"i*ness

Defn: , n. Quality or state of being shady.

SHADING
Shad"ing, n.

1. Act or process of making a shade.

2. That filling up which represents the effect of more or less
darkness, expressing rotundity, projection, etc., in a picture or a
drawing.

SHADOOF
Sha*doof", n. Etym: [Ar. shad.]

Defn: A machine, resembling a well sweep, used in Egypt for raising
water from the Nile for irrigation.

SHADOW
Shad"ow, n. Etym: [Originally the same word as shade. sq. root162.
See Shade.]

1. Shade within defined limits; obscurity or deprivation of light,
apparent on a surface, and representing the form of the body which
intercepts the rays of light; as, the shadow of a man, of a tree, or
of a tower. See the Note under Shade, n., 1.

2. Darkness; shade; obscurity.
Night's sable shadows from the ocean rise. Denham.

3. A shaded place; shelter; protection; security.
In secret shadow from the sunny ray, On a sweet bed of lilies softly
laid. Spenser.

4. A reflected image, as in a mirror or in water. Shak.

5. That which follows or attends a person or thing like a shadow; an
inseparable companion; hence, an obsequious follower.
Sin and her shadow Death. Milton.

6. A spirit; a ghost; a shade; a phantom. "Hence, horrible shadow!"
Shak.

7. An imperfect and faint representation; adumbration; indistinct
image; dim bodying forth; hence, mystical reprresentation; type.
The law having a shadow of good things to come. Heb. x. 1.
[Types] and shadows of that destined seed. Milton.

8. A small degree; a shade. "No variableness, neither shadow of
turning." James i. 17.

9. An uninvited guest coming with one who is invited. [A Latinism]
Nares.
I must not have my board pastered with shadows That under other men's
protection break in Without invitement. Massinger.
Shadow of death, darkness or gloom like that caused by the presence
or the impending of death. Ps. xxiii. 4.

SHADOW
Shad"ow, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shadowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Shadowing.]
Etym: [OE. shadowen, AS. sceadwian. See adow, n.]

1. To cut off light from; to put in shade; to shade; to throw a
shadow upon; to overspead with obscurity.
The warlike elf much wondered at this tree, So fair and great, that
shadowed all the ground. Spenser.

2. To conceal; to hide; to screen. [R.]
Let every soldier hew him down a bough. And bear't before him;
thereby shall we shadow The numbers of our host. Shak.

3. To protect; to shelter from danger; to shroud.
Shadoving their right under your wings of war. Shak.

4. To mark with gradations of light or color; to shade.

5. To represent faintly or imperfectly; to adumbrate; hence, to
represent typically.
Augustus is shadowed in the person of Dryden.

6. To cloud; to darken; to cast a gloom over.
The shadowed livery of the burnished sun. Shak.
Why sad I must not see the face O love thus shadowed. Beau & Fl.

7. To attend as closely as a shadow; to follow and watch closely,
especially in a secret or unobserved manner; as, a detective shadows
a criminal.

SHADOWINESS
Shad"ow*i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being shadowy.

SHADOWING
Shad"ow*ing, n.

1. Shade, or gradation of light and color; shading. Feltham.

2. A faint representation; an adumbration.
There are . . . in savage theology shadowings, quaint or majestic, of
the conception of a Supreme Deity. Tylor.

SHADOWISH
Shad"ow*ish, a.

Defn: Shadowy; vague. [Obs.] Hooker.

SHADOWLESS
Shad"ow*less, a.

Defn: Having no shadow.

SHADOWY
Shad"ow*y, a.

1. Full of shade or shadows; causing shade or shadow. "Shadowy
verdure." Fenton.
This shadowy desert, unfrequented woods. Shak.

2. Hence, dark; obscure; gloomy; dim. "The shadowy past." Longfellow.

3. Not brightly luminous; faintly light.
The moon . . . with more pleasing light, Shadowy sets off the face
things. Milton.

4. Faintly representative; hence, typical.
From sshadowy types to truth, from flesh to spirit. Milton.

5. Unsubstantial; unreal; as, shadowy honor.
Milton has brought into his poems two actors of a shadowy and
fictitious nature, in the persons of Sin and Death. Addison.

SHADRACH
Sha"drach, n. (Metal.)

Defn: A mass of iron on which the operation of smelting has failed of
its intended effect; -- so called from Shadrach, one of the three
Hebrews who came forth unharmed from the fiery furnace of
Nebuchadnezzar. (See Dan. iii. 26, 27.)

SHAD-SPIRIT
Shad"-spir`it, n.

Defn: See Shadbird (a)

SHAD-WAITER
Shad"-wait`er, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A lake whitefish; the roundfish. See Roundfish.

SHADY
Shad"y, a. [Compar. Shadier; superl. Shadiest.]

1. Abounding in shade or shades; overspread with shade; causing
shade.
The shady trees cover him with their shadow. Job. xl. 22.
And Amaryllis fills the shady groves. Dryden.

2. Sheltered from the glare of light or sultry heat.
Cast it also that you may have rooms shady for summer and warm for
winter. Bacon.

3. Of or pertaining to shade or darkness; hence, unfit to be seen or
known; equivocal; dubious or corrupt. [Colloq.] "A shady business."
London Sat. Rev.
Shady characters, disreputable, criminal. London Spectator.
On the shady side of, on the thither side of; as, on the shady side
of fifty; that is, more than fifty. [Colloq.] -- To keep shady, to
stay in concealment; also, to be reticent. [Slang]

SHAFFLE
Shaf"fle, v. i. Etym: [See Shuffle.]

Defn: To hobble or limp; to shuffle. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.]

SHAFFLER
Shaf"fler, n.

Defn: A hobbler; one who limps; a shuffer. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.]

SHAFIITE
Sha"fi*ite, n.

Defn: A member of one of the four sects of the Sunnites, or Orthodox
Mohammedans; -- so called from its founder, Mohammed al-Shafei.

SHAFT
Shaft, n. Etym: [OE. shaft, schaft, AS. sceaft; akin to D. schacht,
OHG. scaft, G. schaft, Dan. & Sw. skaft handle, haft, Icel. skapt,
and probably to L. scapus, Gr. Scape, Scepter, Shave.]

1. The slender, smooth stem of an arrow; hence, an arrow.
His sleep, his meat, his drink, is him bereft, That lean he wax, and
dry as is a shaft. Chaucer.
A shaft hath three principal parts, the stele [stale], the feathers,
and the head. Ascham.

2. The long handle of a spear or similar weapon; hence, the weapon
itself; (Fig.) anything regarded as a shaft to be thrown or darted;
as, shafts of light.
And the thunder, Winged with red lightning and impetuous rage,
Perhaps hath spent his shafts. Milton.
Some kinds of literary pursuits . . . have been attacked with all the
shafts of ridicule. V. Knox.

3. That which resembles in some degree the stem or handle of an arrow
or a spear; a long, slender part, especially when cylindrical.
Specifically:
(a) (Bot.) The trunk, stem, or stalk of a plant.
(b) (Zool.) The stem or midrib of a feather. See Illust. of Feather.
(c) The pole, or tongue, of a vehicle; also, a thill.
(d) The part of a candlestick which supports its branches.
Thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold . . . his shaft, and his
branches, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the
same. Ex. xxv. 31.

(e) The handle or helve of certain tools, instruments, etc., as a
hammer, a whip, etc.
(f) A pole, especially a Maypole. [Obs.] Stow.
(g) (Arch.) The body of a column; the cylindrical pillar between the
capital and base (see Illust. of Column). Also, the part of a chimney
above the roof. Also, the spire of a steeple. [Obs. or R.] Gwilt.
(h) A column, an obelisk, or other spire-shaped or columnar monument.
Bid time and nature gently spare The shaft we raise to thee. Emerson.
(i) (Weaving)

Defn: A rod at the end of a heddle.
(j) (Mach.) A solid or hollow cylinder or bar, having one or more
journals on which it rests and revolves, and intended to carry one or
more wheels or other revolving parts and to transmit power or motion;
as, the shaft of a steam engine. See Illust. of Countershaft.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: A humming bird (Thaumastura cora) having two of the tail
feathers next to the middle ones very long in the male; -- called
also cora humming bird.

5. Etym: [Cf. G. schacht.] (Mining)

Defn: A well-like excavation in the earth, perpendicular or nearly
so, made for reaching and raising ore, for raising water, etc.

6. A long passage for the admission or outlet of air; an air shaft.

7. The chamber of a blast furnace. Line shaft (Mach.), a main shaft
of considerable length, in a shop or factory, usually bearing a
number of pulleys by which machines are driven, commonly by means of
countershafts; -- called also line, or main line.
 -- Shaft alley (Naut.), a passage extending from the engine room to
the stern, and containing the propeller shaft.
 -- Shaft furnace (Metal.), a furnace, in the form of a chimney,
which is charged at the top and tapped at the bottom.

SHAFTED
Shaft"ed, a.

1. Furnished with a shaft, or with shafts; as, a shafted arch.

2. (Her.)

Defn: Having a shaft; -- applied to a spear when the head and the
shaft are of different tinctures.

SHAFTING
Shaft"ing, n. (Mach.)

Defn: Shafts, collectivelly; a system of connected shafts for
communicating motion.

SHAFTMAN; SHAFTMENT
Shaft"man, Shaft"ment, n. Etym: [AS. sceaftmund.]

Defn: A measure of about six inches. [Obs.]

SHAG
Shag, n. Etym: [AS. sceacga a bush of hair; akin to Icel. skegg the
beard, Sw. skagg, Dan. skj. Cf. Schock of hair.]

1. Coarse hair or nap; rough, woolly hair.
True Witney broadcloth, with its shag unshorn. Gay.

2. A kind of cloth having a long, coarse nap.

3. (Com.)

Defn: A kind of prepared tobacco cut fine.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of cormorant.

SHAG
Shag, a.

Defn: Hairy; shaggy. Shak.

SHAG
Shag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Shagging.]

Defn: To make hairy or shaggy; hence, to make rough.
Shag the green zone that bounds the boreal skies. J. Barlow.

SHAGBARK
Shag"bark`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A rough-barked species of hickory (Carya alba), its nut. Called
also shellbark. See Hickory.
(b) The West Indian Pithecolobium micradenium, a legiminous tree with
a red coiled-up pod.

SHAGEBUSH
Shage"bush`, n.

Defn: A sackbut. [Obs.]

SHAGGED
Shag"ged, a.

Defn: Shaggy; rough. Milton.
 -- Shag"ged*ness, n. Dr. H. More.

SHAGGINESS
Shag"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being shaggy; roughness; shaggedness.

SHAGGY
Shag"gy, a. [Compar. Shaggier; superl. Shaggiest.] Etym: [From Shag,
n.]

Defn: Rough with long hair or wool.
About his shoulders hangs the shaggy skin. Dryden.

2. Rough; rugged; jaggy. Milton.
[A rill] that winds unseen beneath the shaggy fell. Keble.

SHAG-HAIRED
Shag"-haired`, a.

Defn: Having shaggy hair. Shak.

SHAG-RAG
Shag"-rag`, n.

Defn: The unkempt and ragged part of the community. [Colloq. or
Slang.] R. Browning.

SHAGREEN
Sha*green", v. t.

Defn: To chagrin. [Obs.]

SHAGREEN
Sha*green", n. Etym: [F. chagrin, It. zigrino, fr. Turk. saghri the
back of a horse or other beast of burden, shagreen. Cf. Chagrin.]

1. A kind of untanned leather prepared in Russia and the East, from
the skins of horses, asses, and camels, and grained so as to be
covered with small round granulations. This characteristic surface is
produced by pressing small seeds into the grain or hair side when
moist, and afterward, when dry, scraping off the roughness left
between them, and then, by soaking, causing the portions of the skin
which had been compressed or indented by the seeds to swell up into
relief. It is used for covering small cases and boxes.

2. The skin of various small sharks and other fishes when having
small, rough, bony scales. The dogfishes of the genus Scyllium
furnish a large part of that used in the arts.

SHAGREEN; SHAGREENED
Sha*green", Sha*greened" a.

1. Made or covered with the leather called shagreen. "A shagreen case
of lancets." T. Hook.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Covered with rough scales or points like those on shagreen.

SHAH
Shah, n. Etym: [Per. shah a king, sovereign, prince. Cf. Checkmate,
Chess, Pasha.]

Defn: The title of the supreme ruler in certain Eastern countries,
especially Persia. [Written also schah.] Shah Nameh. Etym: [Per.,
Book of Kings.] A celebrated historical poem written by Firdousi,
being the most ancient in the modern Persian language. Brande & C.

SHAHIN
Sha*hin", n. Etym: [Ar. shahin.] (Zool.)

Defn: A large and swift Asiatic falcon (Falco pregrinator) highly
valued in falconry.

SHAIK
Shaik, n.

Defn: See Sheik.

SHAIL
Shail, v. i. Etym: [Cf. AS. sceolh squinting, Icel. skjagr wry,
oblique, Dan. skele to squint.]

Defn: To walk sidewise. [Obs.] L'Estrange.

SHAITAN; SHEITAN
Shai"tan, Shei"tan, n. [Written also sheytan.] [Hind. shaitan, fr.
Ar. shaitsan.]

1. Among Mohammedans:
 (a) An evil spirit; the evil one; the devil.
 (b) One of bad disposition; a fiend. [Colloq.]

2.  (Meteor.) A dust storm. [India]

SHAKE
Shake,

Defn: obs. p. p. of Shake. Chaucer.

SHAKE
Shake, v. t. [imp. Shook; p. p. Shaken, (Shook, obs.); p. pr. & vb.
n. Shaking.] Etym: [OE. shaken, schaken, AS. scacan, sceacan; akin to
Icel. & Sw. skaka, OS. skakan, to depart, to flee. sq. root161. Cf.
Shock, v.]

1. To cause to move with quick or violent vibrations; to move rapidly
one way and the other; to make to tremble or shiver; to agitate.
As a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a
mighty wind. Rev. vi. 13.
Ascend my chariot; guide the rapid wheels That shake heaven's basis.
Milton.

2. Fig.: To move from firmness; to weaken the stability of; to cause
to waver; to impair the resolution of.
When his doctrines grew too strong to be shook by his enemies, they
persecuted his reputation. Atterbury.
Thy equal fear that my firm faith and love Can by his fraud be shaken
or seduced. Milton.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: To give a tremulous tone to; to trill; as, to shake a note in
music.

4. To move or remove by agitating; to throw off by a jolting or
vibrating motion; to rid one's self of; -- generally with an adverb,
as off, out, etc.; as, to shake fruit down from a tree.
Shake off the golden slumber of repose. Shak.
'Tis our fast intent To shake all cares and business from our age.
Shak.
I could scarcely shake him out of my company. Bunyan.
To shake a cask (Naut.), to knock a cask to pieces and pack the
staves.
 -- To shake hands, to perform the customary act of civility by
clasping and moving hands, as an expression of greeting, farewell,
good will, agreement, etc.
 -- To shake out a reef (Naut.), to untile the reef points and spread
more canvas.
 -- To shake the bells. See under Bell.
 -- To shake the sails (Naut.), to luff up in the wind, causing the
sails to shiver. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

SHAKE
Shake, v. i.

Defn: To be agitated with a waving or vibratory motion; to tremble;
to shiver; to quake; to totter.
Under his burning wheels The steadfast empyrean shook throughout, All
but the throne itself of God. Milton.
What danger Who 's that that shakes behind there Beau & FL.
Shaking piece, a name given by butchers to the piece of beef cut from
the under side of the neck. See Illust. of Beef.

SHAKE
Shake, n.

1. The act or result of shaking; a vacillating or wavering motion; a
rapid motion one way and other; a trembling, quaking, or shivering;
agitation.
The great soldier's honor was composed Of thicker stuff, which could
endure a shake. Herbert.
Our salutations were very hearty on both sides, consisting of many
kind shakes of the hand. Addison.

2. A fissure or crack in timber, caused by its being dried too
suddenly. Gwilt.

3. A fissure in rock or earth.

4. (Mus.)

Defn: A rapid alternation of a principal tone with another
represented on the next degree of the staff above or below it; a
trill.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: One of the staves of a hogshead or barrel taken apart. Totten.

6. A shook of staves and headings. Knight.

7. (Zool.)

Defn: The redshank; -- so called from the nodding of its head while
on the ground. [Prov. Eng.] No great shakes, of no great importance.
[Slang] Byron.
 -- The shakes, the fever and ague. [Colloq. U.S.]

SHAKEDOWN
Shake"down`, n.

Defn: A temporary substitute for a bed, as one made on the floor or
on chairs; -- perhaps originally from the shaking down of straw for
this purpose. Sir W. Scott.

SHAKEFORK
Shake"fork`, n.

Defn: A fork for shaking hay; a pitchfork. [Obs.]

SHAKEN
Shak"en, a.

1. Caused to shake; agitated; as, a shaken bough.

2. Cracked or checked; split. See Shake, n., 2.
Nor is the wood shaken or twisted. Barroe.

3. Impaired, as by a shock.

SHAKER
Shak"er, n.

1. A person or thing that shakes, or by means of which something is
shaken.

2. One of a religious sect who do not marry, popularly so called from
the movements of the members in dancing, which forms a part of their
worship.

Note: The sect originated in England in 1747, and came to the United
States in 1774, under the leadership of Mother Ann Lee. The Shakers
are sometimes nicknamed Shaking Quakers, but they differ from the
Quakers in doctrine and practice. They style themselves the "United
Society of Believers in Christ's Second Appearing." The sect is now
confined in the United States.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A variety of pigeon. P. J. Selby.

SHAKERESS
Shak"er*ess, n.

Defn: A female Shaker.

SHAKERISM
Shak"er*ism, n.

Defn: Doctrines of the Shakers.

SHAKESPEAREAN
Shake*spear"e*an, a.

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or in the style of, Shakespeare or his
works. [Written also Shakespearian, Shakspearean, Shakspearian,
Shaksperean, Shaksperian.etc.]

SHAKINESS
Shak"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being shaky.

SHAKINGS
Shak"ings, n. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Deck sweepings, refuse of cordage, canvas, etc. Ham. Nav.
Encyc.

SHAKO
Shak"o, n. Etym: [Hung. csako: cf. F. shako, schako.]

Defn: A kind of military cap or headress.

SHAKUDO
Shak"u*do", n. [Jap.]

Defn: An alloy of copper, invented by the Japanese, having a very
dark blue color approaching black.

SHAKY
Shak"y, a. [Compar. Shakier; superl. Shakiest.]

1. Shaking or trembling; as, a shaky spot in a marsh; a shaky hand.
Thackeray.

2. Full of shakes or cracks; cracked; as, shaky timber. Gwilt.

3. Easily shaken; tottering; unsound; as, a shaky constitution; shaky
business credit. [Colloq.]

SHALE
Shale, n. Etym: [AS. scealy, scalu. See Scalme, and cf. Shell.]

1. A shell or husk; a cod or pod. "The green shales of a bean."
Chapman.

2. Etym: [G. shale.] (Geol.)

Defn: A fine-grained sedimentary rock of a thin, laminated, and often
friable, structure. Bituminous shale. See under Bituminous.

SHALE
Shale, v. t.

Defn: To take off the shell or coat of; to shell.
Life, in its upper grades, was bursting its shell, or was shaling off
its husk. I. Taylor.

SHALL
Shall, v. i. & auxiliary. [imp. Should.] Etym: [OE. shal, schal, imp.
sholde, scholde, AS. scal, sceal, I am obliged, imp. scolde, sceolde,
inf. sculan; akin to OS. skulan, pres. skal, imp. skolda, D. zullen,
pres. zal, imp. zoude, zou, OHG. solan, scolan, pres. scal, sol. imp.
scolta, solta, G. sollen, pres. soll, imp. sollte, Icel. skulu, pres.
skal, imp. skyldi, SW. skola, pres. skall, imp. skulle, Dan. skulle,
pres. skal, imp. skulde, Goth. skulan, pres. skal, imp. skulda, and
to AS. scyld guilt, G. schuld guilt, fault, debt, and perhaps to L.
scelus crime.]

Note: [Shall is defective, having no infinitive, imperative, or
participle.]

1. To owe; to be under obligation for. [Obs.] "By the faith I shall
to God" Court of Love.

2. To be obliged; must. [Obs.] "Me athinketh [I am sorry] that I
shall rehearse it her." Chaucer.

3. As an auxiliary, shall indicates a duty or necessity whose
obligation is derived from the person speaking; as, you shall go; he
shall go; that is, I order or promise your going. It thus ordinarily
expresses, in the second and third persons, a command, a threat, or a
promise. If the auxillary be emphasized, the command is made more
imperative, the promise or that more positive and sure. It is also
employed in the language of prophecy; as, "the day shall come when .
. . , " since a promise or threat and an authoritative prophecy
nearly coincide in significance. In shall with the first person, the
necessity of the action is sometimes implied as residing elsewhere
than in the speaker; as, I shall suffer; we shall see; and there is
always a less distinct and positive assertion of his volition than is
indicated by will. "I shall go" implies nearly a simple futurity;
more exactly, a foretelling or an expectation of my going, in which,
naturally enough, a certain degree of plan or intention may be
included; emphasize the shall, and the event is described as certain
to occur, and the expression approximates in meaning to our emphatic
"I will go." In a question, the relation of speaker and source of
obligation is of course transferred to the person addressed; as,
"Shall you go" (answer, "I shall go"); "Shall he go" i. e., "Do you
require or promise his going" (answer, "He shall go".) The same
relation is transferred to either second or third person in such
phrases as "You say, or think, you shall go;" "He says, or thinks, he
shall go." After a conditional conjunction (as if, whether) shall is
used in all persons to express futurity simply; as, if I, you, or he
shall say they are right. Should is everywhere used in the same
connection and the same senses as shall, as its imperfect. It also
expresses duty or moral obligation; as, he should do it whether he
will or not. In the early English, and hence in our English Bible,
shall is the auxiliary mainly used, in all the persons, to express
simple futurity. (Cf. Will, v. t.) Shall may be used elliptically;
thus, with an adverb or other word expressive of motion go may be
omitted. "He to England shall along with you." Shak.

Note: Shall and will are often confounded by inaccurate speakers and
writers. Say: I shall be glad to see you. Shall I do this Shall I
help you (not Will I do this) See Will.

SHALLI
Shal"li, n.

Defn: See Challis.

SHALLON
Shal"lon, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen shrub (Gaultheria Shallon) of Northwest America;
also, its fruit. See Salal-berry.

SHALLOON
Shal*loon", n. Etym: [F. chalon, from Chalons, in France, where it
was first made.]

Defn: A thin, loosely woven, twilled worsted stuff.
In blue shalloon shall Hannibal be clad. Swift.

SHALLOP
Shal"lop, n. Etym: [F. chaloupe, probably from D. sloep. Cf. Sloop.]
(Naut.)

Defn: A boat.
[She] thrust the shallop from the floating strand. Spenser.

Note: The term shallop is applied to boats of all sizes, from a light
canoe up to a large boat with masts and sails.

SHALLOT
Shal*lot", n. Etym: [OF. eschalote (for escalone), F. echalote. See
Scallion, and cf. Eschalot.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small kind of onion (Allium Ascalonicum) growing in clusters,
and ready for gathering in spring; a scallion, or eschalot.

SHALLOW
Shal"low, a. [Compar. Shallower; superl. Shallowest.] Etym: [OE.
schalowe, probably originally, sloping or shelving; cf. Icel. skjalgr
wry, squinting, AS. sceolh, D. & G. scheel, OHG. schelah. Cf. Shelve
to slope, Shoal shallow.]

1. Not deep; having little depth; shoal. "Shallow brooks, and rivers
wide." Milton.

2. Not deep in tone. [R.]
The sound perfecter and not so shallow and jarring. Bacon.

3. Not intellectually deep; not profound; not penetrating deeply;
simple; not wise or knowing; ignorant; superficial; as, a shallow
mind; shallow learning.
The king was neither so shallow, nor so ill advertised, as not to
perceive the intention of the French king. Bacon.
Deep versed in books, and shallow in himself. Milton.

SHALLOW
Shal"low, n.

1. A place in a body of water where the water is not deep; a shoal; a
flat; a shelf.
A swift stream is not heard in the channel, but upon shallows of
gravel. Bacon.
Dashed on the shallows of the moving sand. Dryden.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The rudd. [Prov. Eng.]

SHALLOW
Shal"low, v. t.

Defn: To make shallow. Sir T. Browne.

SHALLOW
Shal"low, v. i.

Defn: To become shallow, as water.

SHALLOW-BODIED
Shal"low-bod`ied, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having a moderate depth of hold; -- said of a vessel.

SHALLOW-BRAINED
Shal"low-brained`, a.

Defn: Weak in intellect; foolish; empty-headed. South.

SHALLOW-HEARTED
Shal"low-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Incapable of deep feeling. Tennyson.

SHALLOWLY
Shal"low*ly, adv.

Defn: In a shallow manner.

SHALLOWNESS
Shal"low*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being shallow.

SHALLOW-PATED
Shal"low-pat`ed, a.

Defn: Shallow-brained.

SHALLOW-WAISTED
Shal"low-waist`ed, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Having a flush deck, or with only a moderate depression
amidships; -- said of a vessel.

SHALM
Shalm, n.

Defn: See Shawm. [Obs.] Knolles.

SHALT
Shalt,

Defn: 2d per. sing. of Shall.

SHALY
Shal"y, a.

Defn: Resembling shale in structure.

SHAM
Sham, n. Etym: [Originally the same word as shame, hence, a disgrace,
a trick. See Shame, n.]

1. That which deceives expectation; any trick, fraud, or device that
deludes and disappoint; a make-believe; delusion; imposture, humbug.
"A mere sham." Bp. Stillingfleet.
Believe who will the solemn sham, not I. Addison.

2. A false front, or removable ornamental covering. Pillow sham, a
covering to be laid on a pillow.

SHAM
Sham, a.

Defn: False; counterfeit; pretended; feigned; unreal; as, a sham
fight.
They scorned the sham independence proffered to them by the
Athenians. Jowett (Thucyd)

SHAM
Sham, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Shamming.]

1. To trick; to cheat; to deceive or delude with false pretenses.
Fooled and shammed into a conviction. L'Estrange.

2. To obtrude by fraud or imposition. [R.]
We must have a care that we do not . . . sham fallacies upon the
world for current reason. L'Estrange.

3. To assume the manner and character of; to imitate; to ape; to
feign. To sham Abram or Abraham, to feign sickness; to malinger.
Hence a malingerer is called, in sailors' cant, Sham Abram, or Sham
Abraham.

SHAM
Sham, v. i.

Defn: To make false pretenses; to deceive; to feign; to impose.
Wondering . . . whether those who lectured him were such fools as
they professed to be, or were only shamming. Macaulay.

SHAMA
Sha"ma, n. Etym: [Hind. shama.] (Zool.)

Defn: A saxicoline singing bird (Kittacincla macroura) of India,
noted for the sweetness and power of its song. In confinement it
imitates the notes of other birds and various animals with accuracy.
Its head, neck, back, breast, and tail are glossy black, the rump
white, the under parts chestnut.

SHAMAN
Sha"man, n. Etym: [From the native name.]

Defn: A priest of Shamanism; a wizard among the Shamanists.

SHAMANIC
Sha*man"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Shamanism.

SHAMANISM
Sha"man*ism, n.

Defn: The type of religion which once prevalied among all the Ural-
Altaic peoples (Tungusic, Mongol, and Turkish), and which still
survives in various parts of Northern Asia. The Shaman, or wizard
priest, deals with good as well as with evil spirits, especially the
good spirits of ancestors. Encyc. Brit.

SHAMANIST
Sha"man*ist, n.

Defn: An adherent of Shamanism.

SHAMBLE
Sham"ble, n. Etym: [OE. schamel a bench, stool, AS. scamel, sceamol,
a bench, form, stool, fr. L. scamellum, dim. of scamnum a bench,
stool.]

1. (Mining)

Defn: One of a succession of niches or platforms, one above another,
to hold ore which is thrown successively from platform to platform,
and thus raised to a higher level.

2. pl.

Defn: A place where butcher's meat is sold.
As summer flies are in the shambles. Shak.

3. pl.

Defn: A place for slaughtering animals for meat.
To make a shambles of the parliament house. Shak.

SHAMBLE
Sham"ble, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shambled; p. pr. & vb. n. Shambling.]
Etym: [Cf. OD. schampelen to slip, schampen to slip away, escape. Cf.
Scamble, Scamper.]

Defn: To walk awkwardly and unsteadily, as if the knees were weak; to
shuffle along.

SHAMBLING
Sham"bling, a.

Defn: Characterized by an awkward, irregular pace; as, a shambling
trot; shambling legs.

SHAMBLING
Sham"bling, n.

Defn: An awkward, irregular gait.

SHAME
Shame, n. Etym: [OE. shame, schame, AS. scamu, sceamu; akin to OS. &
OHG. scama, G. scham, Icel. skomm, shkamm, Sw. & Dan. skam, D. & G.
schande, Goth. skanda shame, skaman sik to be ashamed; perhaps from a
root skam meaning to cover, and akin to the root (kam) of G. hemd
shirt, E. chemise. Cf. Sham.]

1. A painful sensation excited by a consciousness of guilt or
impropriety, or of having done something which injures reputation, or
of the exposure of that which nature or modesty prompts us to
conceal.
HIde, for shame, Romans, your grandsires' images, That blush at their
degenerate progeny. Dryden.
Have you no modesty, no maiden shame Shak.

2. Reproach incurred or suffered; dishonor; ignominy; derision;
contempt.
Ye have borne the shame of the heathen. Ezek. xxxvi. 6.
Honor and shame from no condition rise. Pope.
And every woe a tear can claim Except an erring sister's shame.
Byron.

3. The cause or reason of shame; that which brings reproach, and
degrades a person in the estimation of others; disgrace.
O Cshame is this! Shak.
Guides who are the shame of religion. Shak.

4. The parts which modesty requires to be covered; the private parts.
Isa. xlvii. 3. For shame! you should be ashamed; shame on you! -- To
put to shame, to cause to feel shame; to humiliate; to disgrace. "Let
them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil." Ps. xl.
14.

SHAME
Shame, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shamed; p. pr. & vb. n. Shaming.]

1. To make ashamed; to excite in (a person) a comsciousness of guilt
or impropriety, or of conduct derogatory to reputation; to put to
shame.
Were there but one righteous in the world, he would . . . shame the
world, and not the world him. South.

2. To cover with reproach or ignominy; to dishonor; to disgrace.
And with foul cowardice his carcass shame. Spenser.

3. To mock at; to deride. [Obs. or R.]
Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor. Ps. xiv. 6.

SHAME
Shame, v. i. Etym: [AS. scamian, sceamian. See Shame, n.]

Defn: To be ashamed; to feel shame. [R.]
I do shame To think of what a noble strain you are. Shak.

SHAMEFACED
Shame"faced`, a. Etym: [For shamefast; AS. scamf. See Shame, n., and
Fast firm.]

Defn: Easily confused or put out of countenance; diffident; bashful;
modest.
Your shamefaced virtue shunned the people's prise. Dryden.

Note: Shamefaced was once shamefast, shamefacedness was
shamefastness, like steadfast and steadfastness; but the ordinary
manifestations of shame being by the face, have brought it to its
present orthography. Trench.
 -- Shame"faced, adv.
 -- Shame"faced`ness, n.

SHAMEFAST
Shame"fast, a. Etym: [AS. scamf?st.]

Defn: Modest; shamefaced.
 -- Shame"fast*ly, adv.
 -- Shame"fast*ness, n. [Archaic] See Shamefaced.
Shamefast she was in maiden shamefastness. Chaucer.
[Conscience] is a blushing shamefast spirit. Shak.
Modest apparel with shamefastness. 1 Tim. ii. 9 (Rev. Ver.).

SHAMEFUL
Shame"ful, a.

1. Bringing shame or disgrace; injurious to reputation; disgraceful.
His naval preparations were not more surprising than his quick and
shameful retreat. Arbuthnot.

2. Exciting the feeling of shame in others; indecent; as, a shameful
picture; a shameful sight. Spenser.

Syn.
 -- Disgraceful; reproachful; indecent; unbecoming; degrading;
scandalous; ignominious; infamous.
 -- Shame"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Shame"ful*ness, n.

SHAMELESS
Shame"less, a. Etym: [AS. scamleas.]

1. Destitute of shame; wanting modesty; brazen-faced; insensible to
disgrace. "Such shameless bards we have." Pope.
Shame enough to shame thee, wert thou not shameless. Shak.

2. Indicating want of modesty, or sensibility to disgrace; indecent;
as, a shameless picture or poem.

Syn.
 -- Impudent; unblushing; audacious; immodest; indecent; indelicate.
 -- Shame"less*ly, adv.
 -- Shame"less*ness, n.

SHAME-PROOF
Shame"-proof`, n.

Defn: Shameless. Shak.

SHAMER
Sham"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, disgraces, or makes ashamed. Beau & Fl.

SHAMMER
Sham"mer, n.

Defn: One who shams; an impostor. Johnson.

SHAMMY
Sham"my, n. Etym: [F. chamious a chamois, shammy leather. See
Chamois.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: The chamois.

2. A soft, pliant leather, prepared originally from the skin of the
chamois, but now made also from the skin of the sheep, goat, kid,
deer, and calf. See Shamoying. [Written also chamois, shamoy, and
shamois.]

SHAMOIS; SHAMOY
Sham"ois, Sham"oy, n.

Defn: See Shammy.

SHAMOYING
Sha*moy"ing, n. Etym: [See Shammy.]

Defn: A process used in preparing certain kinds of leather, which
consists in frizzing the skin, and working oil into it to supply the
place of the astringent (tannin, alum, or the like) ordinarily used
in tanning.

SHAMPOO
Sham*poo", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shampooed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shampooing.] Etym: [Hind. champna to press, to squeeze.] [Writing
also champoo.]

1. To press or knead the whole surface of the body of (a person), and
at the same time to stretch the limbs and joints, in connection with
the hot bath.

2. To wash throughly and rub the head of (a person), with the
fingers, using either soap, or a soapy preparation, for the more
thorough cleansing.

SHAMPOO
Sham*poo", n.

Defn: The act of shampooing.

SHAMPOOER
Sham*poo"er, n.

Defn: One who shampoos.

SHAMROCK
Sham"rock, n. Etym: [L. seamrog, seamar, trefoil, white clover, white
honeysuckle; akin to Gael. seamrag.] (Bot.)

Defn: A trifoliate plant used as a national emblem by the Irish. The
legend is that St. Patrick once plucked a leaf of it for use in
illustrating the doctrine of the trinity.

Note: The original plant was probably a kind of wood sorrel (Oxalis
Acetocella); but now the name is given to the white clover (Trifolium
repens), and the black medic (Medicago lupulina).

SHANDRYDAN
Shan"dry*dan, n.

Defn: A jocosely depreciative name for a vehicle. [Ireland]

SHANDYGAFF
Shan"dy*gaff (, n.

Defn: A mixture of strong beer and ginger beer. [Eng.]

SHANGHAI
Shang`hai", v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shanghaied; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shanghaiing.]

Defn: To intoxicate and ship (a person) as a sailor while in this
condition. [Written also shanghae.] [Slang, U.S.]

SHANGHAI
Shang`hai", n. (Zool.)

Defn: A large and tall breed of domestic fowl.

SHANK
Shank, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Chank.

SHANK
Shank, n. Etym: [OE. shanke, schanke, schonke, AS. scanca, sceanca,
sconca, sceonca; akin to D. schonk a bone, G. schenkel thigh, shank,
schinken ham, OHG. scincha shank, Dan. & Sw. skank. sq. root161. Cf.
Skink, v.]

1. The part of the leg from the knee to the foot; the shin; the shin
bone; also, the whole leg.
His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide For his shrunk shank.
Shak.

2. Hence, that part of an instrument, tool, or other thing, which
connects the acting part with a handle or other part, by which it is
held or moved. Specifically:
(a) That part of a key which is between the bow and the part which
enters the wards of the lock.
(b) The middle part of an anchor, or that part which is between the
ring and the arms. See Illustr. of Anchor.
(c) That part of a hoe, rake, knife, or the like, by which it is
secured to a handle.
(d) A loop forming an eye to a button.

3. (Arch.)

Defn: The space between two channels of the Doric triglyph. Gwilt.

4. (Founding)

Defn: A large ladle for molten metal, fitted with long bars for
handling it.

5. (Print.)

Defn: The body of a type.

6. (Shoemaking)

Defn: The part of the sole beneath the instep connecting the broader
front part with the heel.

7. (Zool.)

Defn: A wading bird with long legs; as, the green-legged shank, or
knot; the yellow shank, or tattler; -- called also shanks.

8. pl.

Defn: Flat-nosed pliers, used by opticians for nipping off the edges
of pieces of glass to make them round. Shank painter (Naut.), a short
rope or chain which holds the shank of an anchor against the side of
a vessel when it is secured for a voyage.
 -- To ride shank's mare, to go on foot; to walk.

SHANK
Shank, v. i.

Defn: To fall off, as a leaf, flower, or capsule, on account of
disease affecting the supporting footstalk; -- usually followed by
off. Darwin.

SHANKBEER
Shank"beer`, n.

Defn: See Schenkbeer.

SHANKED
Shanked, a.

Defn: Having a shank.

SHANKER
Shank"er, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Chancre.

SHANNY
Shan"ny, n.; pl. Shannies. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Zool.)

Defn: The European smooth blenny (Blennius pholis). It is olive-green
with irregular black spots, and without appendages on the head.

SHAN'T
Shan't.

Defn: A contraction of shall not. [Colloq.]

SHANTY
Shan"ty, a.

Defn: Jaunty; showy. [Prov. Eng.]

SHANTY
Shan"ty, n.;pl. Shanties. Etym: [Said to be fr. Ir. sean old + tig. a
house.]

Defn: A small, mean dwelling; a rough, slight building for temporary
use; a hut.

SHANTY
Shan"ty, v. i.

Defn: To inhabit a shanty. S. H. Hammond.

SHAPABLE
Shap"a*ble, a.

1. That may be shaped.

2. Shapely. [R.] "Round and shapable." De Foe.

SHAPE
Shape, v. t. [imp. Shaped; p. p. Shaped or Shapen; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shaping.] Etym: [OE. shapen, schapen, AS. sceapian. The p. p. shapen
is from the strong verb, AS. scieppan, scyppan, sceppan, p. p.
sceapen. See Shape, n.]

1. To form or create; especially, to mold or make into a particular
form; to give proper form or figure to.
I was shapen in iniquity. Ps. li. 5.
Grace shaped her limbs, and beauty decked her face. Prior.

2. To adapt to a purpose; to regulate; to adjust; to direct; as, to
shape the course of a vessel.
To the stream, when neither friends, nor force, Nor spead nor art
avail, he shapes his course. Denham.
Charmed by their eyes, their manners I acqire, And shape my
foolishness to their desire. Prior.

3. To image; to conceive; to body forth.
Oft my jealousy Shapes faults that are not. Shak.

4. To design; to prepare; to plan; to arrange.
When shapen was all this conspiracy, From point to point. Chaucer.
Shaping machine. (Mach.) Same as Shaper.
 -- To shape one's self, to prepare; to make ready. [Obs.]
I will early shape me therefor. Chaucer.

SHAPE
Shape, v. i.

Defn: To suit; to be adjusted or conformable. [R.] Shak.

SHAPE
Shape, n. Etym: [OE. shap, schap, AS. sceap in gesceap creation,
creature, fr. the root of scieppan, scyppan, sceppan, to shape, to
do, to effect; akin to OS. giskeppian, OFries. skeppa, D. scheppen,
G. schaffen, OHG. scaffan, scepfen, skeffen, Icer. skapa, skepja,
Dan. skabe, skaffe, Sw. skapa, skaffa, Goth. gaskapjan, and perhaps
to E. shave, v. Cf. -ship.]

1. Character or construction of a thing as determining its external
appearance; outward aspect; make; figure; form; guise; as, the shape
of a tree; the shape of the head; an elegant shape.
He beat me grievously, in the shape of a woman. Shak.

2. That which has form or figure; a figure; an appearance; a being.
Before the gates three sat, On either side, a formidable shape.
Milton.

3. A model; a pattern; a mold.

4. Form of embodiment, as in words; form, as of thought or
conception; concrete embodiment or example, as of some quality.
Milton.

5. Dress for disguise; guise. [Obs.]
Look better on this virgin, and consider This Persian shape laid by,
and she appearing In a Greekish dress. Messinger.

6. (Iron Manuf.)
(a) A rolled or hammered piece, as a bar, beam, angle iron, etc.,
having a cross section different from merchant bar.
(b) A piece which has been roughly forged nearly to the form it will
receive when completely forged or fitted. To take shape, to assume a
definite form.

SHAPELESS
Shape"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of shape or regular form; wanting symmetry of
dimensions; misshapen; -- opposed to Ant: shapely.
 -- Shape"less*ness, n.
The shapeless rock, or hanging precipice. Pope.

SHAPELINESS
Shape"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being shapely.

SHAPELY
Shape"ly, a. [Compar. Shapelier; superl. Shapeliest.]

1. Well-formed; having a regular shape; comely; symmetrical. T.
Warton.
Waste sandy valleys, once perplexed with thorn, The spiry fir and
shapely box adorn. Pope.
Where the shapely column stood. Couper.

2. Fit; suitable. [Obs.]
Shaply for to be an alderman. Chaucer.

SHAPER
Shap"er, n.

1. One who shapes; as, the shaper of one's fortunes.
The secret of those old shapers died with them. Lowell.

2. That which shapes; a machine for giving a particular form or
outline to an object. Specifically;
(a) (Metal Working) A kind of planer in which the tool, instead of
the work, receives a reciprocating motion, usually from a crank.
(b) (Wood Working) A machine with a vertically revolving cutter
projecting above a flat table top, for cutting irregular outlines,
moldings, etc.

SHAPOO
Sha"poo, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The oorial.

SHAPS
Shaps, n. pl. [Shortened fr. chaparajos. Cf. Chaps.]

Defn: Chaparajos. [Western U. S.]

A pair of gorgeous buckskin shaps, embroidered up the sides and
adorned with innumerable ermine skins.
The Century.

SHARD
Shard, n.

Defn: A plant; chard. [Obs.] Dryden.

SHARD
Shard, n. Etym: [AS. sceard, properly a p. p. from the root of scearn
to shear, to cut; akin to D. schaard a fragment, G. scharte a notch,
Icel. skar. See Shear, and cf. Sherd.] [Written also sheard, and
sherd.]

1. A piece or fragment of an earthen vessel, or a like brittle
substance, as the shell of an egg or snail. Shak.
The precious dish Broke into shards of beauty on the board. E.
Arnold.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The hard wing case of a beetle.
They are his shards, and he their beetle. Shak.

3. A gap in a fence. [Obs.] Stanyhurst.

4. A boundary; a division. [Obs. & R.] Spenser.

SHARD-BORNE
Shard"-borne`, a.

Defn: Borne on shards or scaly wing cases. "The shard-borne beetle."
Shak.

SHARDED
Shard"ed, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having elytra, as a beetle.

SHARDY
Shard"y, a.

Defn: Having, or consisting of, shards.

SHARE
Share, n. Etym: [OE. schar, AS. scear; akin to OHG. scaro, G. schar,
pflugshar, and E. shear, v. See Shear.]

1. The part (usually an iron or steel plate) of a plow which cuts the
ground at the bottom of a furrow; a plowshare.

2. The part which opens the ground for the reception of the seed, in
a machine for sowing seed. Knight.

SHARE
Share, n. Etym: [OE. share, AS. scearu, scaru, fr. sceran to shear,
cut. See Shear, v.]

1. A certain quantity; a portion; a part; a division; as, a small
share of prudence.

2. Especially, the part allotted or belonging to one, of any property
or interest owned by a number; a portion among others; an apportioned
lot; an allotment; a dividend. "My share of fame." Dryden.

3. Hence, one of a certain number of equal portions into which any
property or invested capital is divided; as, a ship owned in ten
shares.

4. The pubes; the sharebone. [Obs.] Holland. To go shares, to
partake; to be equally concerned.
 -- Share and share alike, in equal shares.

SHARE
Share, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shared; p. pr. & vb. n. Sharing.]

1. To part among two or more; to distribute in portions; to divide.
Suppose I share my fortune equally between my children and a
stranger. Swift.

2. To partake of, use, or experience, with others; to have a portion
of; to take and possess in common; as, to share a shelter with
another.
While avarice and rapine share the land. Milton.

3. To cut; to shear; to cleave; to divide. [Obs.]
The shared visage hangs on equal sides. Dryden.

SHARE
Share, v. i.

Defn: To have part; to receive a portion; to partake, enjoy, or
suffer with others.
A right of inheritance gave every one a title to share in the goods
of his father. Locke.

SHAREBEAM
Share"beam`, n.

Defn: The part of the plow to which the share is attached.

SHAREBONE
Share"bone`, n. (Anat.)

Defn: The public bone.

SHAREBROKER
Share"bro`ker, n.

Defn: A broker who deals in railway or other shares and securities.

SHAREHOLDER
Share"hold`er, n.

Defn: One who holds or owns a share or shares in a joint fund or
property.

SHARER
Shar"er, n.

Defn: One who shares; a participator; a partaker; also, a divider; a
distributer.

SHAREWORT
Share"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A composite plant (Aster Tripolium) growing along the seacoast
of Europe.

SHARK
Shark, n. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; perhaps through OF. fr.
carcharus a kind of dogfish, Gr. Shark, v. t.&i.); cf. Corn.
scarceas.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of elasmobranch fishes of the order
Plagiostomi, found in all seas.

Note: Some sharks, as the basking shark and the whale shark, grow to
an enormous size, the former becoming forty feet or more, and the
latter sixty feet or more, in length. Most of them are harmless to
man, but some are exceedingly voracious. The man-eating sharks mostly
belong to the genera Carcharhinus, Carcharodon, and related genera.
They have several rows of large sharp teeth with serrated edges, as
the great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias, or Rondeleti) of
tropical seas, and the great blue shark (Carcharhinus glaucus) of all
tropical and temperate seas. The former sometimes becomes thirty-six
feet long, and is the most voracious and dangerous species known. The
rare man-eating shark of the United States coast (Charcarodon
Atwoodi) is thought by some to be a variety, or the young, of C.
carcharias. The dusky shark (Carcharhinus obscurus), and the smaller
blue shark (C. caudatus), both common species on the coast of the
United States, are of moderate size and not dangerous. They feed on
shellfish and bottom fishes.

2. A rapacious, artful person; a sharper. [Colloq.]

3. Trickery; fraud; petty rapine; as, to live upon the shark. [Obs.]
South. Baskin shark, Liver shark, Nurse shark, Oil shark, Sand shark,
Tiger shark, etc. See under Basking, Liver, etc. See also Dogfish,
Houndfish, Notidanian, and Tope.
 -- Gray shark, the sand shark.
 -- Hammer-headed shark. See Hammerhead.
 -- Port Jackson shark. See Cestraciont.
 -- Shark barrow, the eggcase of a shark; a sea purse.
 -- Shark ray. Same as Angel fish (a), under Angel.
 -- Thrasher shark, or Thresher shark, a large, voracious shark. See
Thrasher.
 -- Whale shark, a huge harmless shark (Rhinodon typicus) of the
Indian Ocean. It becomes sixty feet or more in length, but has very
small teeth.

SHARK
Shark, v. t. Etym: [Of uncertain origin; perhaps fr. shark, n., or
perhaps related to E. shear (as hearken to hear), and originally
meaning, to clip off. Cf. Shirk.]

Defn: To pick or gather indiscriminately or covertly. [Obs.] Shak.

SHARK
Shark, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sharked; p. pr. & vb. n. Sharking.]

1. To play the petty thief; to practice fraud or trickery; to
swindle.
Neither sharks for a cup or a reckoning. Bp. Earle.

2. To live by shifts and stratagems. Beau & Fl.

SHARKER
Shark"er, n.

Defn: One who lives by sharking.

SHARKING
Shark"ing, n.

Defn: Petty rapine; trick; also, seeking a livelihood by shifts and
dishonest devices.

SHAROCK
Shar"ock, n.

Defn: An East Indian coin of the value of 12

SHARP
Sharp, a. [Compar. Sharper; superl. Sharpest.] Etym: [OE. sharp,
scharp, scarp, AS. scearp; akin to OS. skarp, LG. scharp, D. scherp,
G. scharf, Dan. & Sw. skarp, Icel. skarpr. Cf. Escarp, Scrape,
Scorpion.]

1. Having a very thin edge or fine point; of a nature to cut or
pierce easily; not blunt or dull; keen.
He dies upon my scimeter's sharp point. Shak.

2. Terminating in a point or edge; not obtuse or rounded; somewhat
pointed or edged; peaked or ridged; as, a sharp hill; sharp features.

3. Affecting the sense as if pointed or cutting, keen, penetrating,
acute: to the taste or smell, pungent, acid, sour, as ammonia has a
sharp taste and odor; to the hearing, piercing, shrill, as a sharp
sound or voice; to the eye, instantaneously brilliant, dazzling, as a
sharp flash.

4. (Mus.)
(a) High in pitch; acute; as, a sharp note or tone.
(b) Raised a semitone in pitch; as, C sharp (C#), which is a half
step, or semitone, higher than C.
(c) So high as to be out of tune, or above true pitch; as, the tone
is sharp; that instrument is sharp. Opposed in all these senses to
Ant: flat.

5. Very trying to the feelings; pierching; keen; severe; painful;
distressing; as, sharp pain, weather; a sharp and frosty air.
Sharp misery had worn him to the bones. Shak.
The morning sharp and clear. Cowper.
In sharpest perils faithful proved. Keble.

6. Cutting in language or import; biting; sarcastic; cruel; harsh;
rigorous; severe; as, a sharp rebuke. "That sharp look." Tennyson.
To that place the sharp Athenian law Can not pursue us. Shak.
Be thy words severe, Sharp as merits but the sword forbear. Dryden.

7. Of keen perception; quick to discern or distinguish; having nice
discrimination; acute; penetrating; sagacious; clever; as, a sharp
eye; sharp sight, hearing, or judgment.
Nothing makes men sharper . . . than want. Addison.
Many other things belong to the material world, wherein the sharpest
philosophers have never yeL. Watts.

8. Eager in pursuit; keen in quest; impatient for gratification;
keen; as, a sharp appetite.

9. Fierce; ardent; fiery; violent; impetuous. "In sharp contest of
battle." Milton.
A sharp assault already is begun. Dryden.

10. Keenly or unduly attentive to one's own interest; close and exact
in dealing; shrewd; as, a sharp dealer; a sharp customer.
The necessity of being so sharp and exacting. Swift.

11. Composed of hard, angular grains; gritty; as, sharp sand. Moxon.

12. Steep; precipitous; abrupt; as, a sharp ascent or descent; a
sharp turn or curve.

13. (Phonetics)

Defn: Uttered in a whisper, or with the breath alone, without voice,
as certain consonants, such as p, k, t, f; surd; nonvocal; aspirated.

Note: Sharp is often used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, sharp-cornered, sharp-edged, sharp-pointed, sharp-
tasted, sharp-visaged, etc. Sharp practice, the getting of an
advantage, or the attempt to do so, by a tricky expedient.
 -- To brace sharp, or To sharp up (Naut.), to turn the yards to the
most oblique position possible, that the ship may lie well up to the
wind.

Syn.
 -- Keen; acute; piercing; penetrating; quick; sagacious; discerning;
shrewd; witty; ingenious; sour; acid; tart; pungent; acrid; severe;
poignant; biting; acrimonious; sarcastic; cutting; bitter; painful;
afflictive; violent; harsh; fierce; ardent; fiery.

SHARP
Sharp, adv.

1. To a point or edge; piercingly; eagerly; sharply. M. Arnold.
The head [of a spear] full sharp yground. Chaucer.
You bite so sharp at reasons. Shak.

2. Precisely; exactly; as, we shall start at ten o'clock sharp.
[Colloq.] Look sharp, attend; be alert. [Colloq.]

SHARP
Sharp, n.

1. A sharp tool or weapon. [Obs.]
If butchers had but the manners to go to sharps, gentlemen would be
contented with a rubber at cuffs. Collier.

2. (Mus.)
(a) The character [#] used to indicate that the note before which it
is placed is to be raised a half step, or semitone, in pitch.
(b) A sharp tone or note. Shak.

3. A portion of a stream where the water runs very rapidly. [Prov.
Eng.] C. Kingsley.

4. A sewing needle having a very slender point; a needle of the most
pointed of the three grades, blunts, betweens, and sharps.

5. pl.

Defn: Same as Middlings, 1.

6. An expert. [Slang]

SHARP
Sharp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sharped; p. pr. & vb. n. Sharping.]

1. To sharpen. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: To raise above the proper pitch; to elevate the tone of;
especially, to raise a half step, or semitone, above the natural
tone.

SHARP
Sharp, v. i.

1. To play tricks in bargaining; to act the sharper. L'Estrange.

2. (Mus.)

Defn: To sing above the proper pitch.

SHARP-CUT
Sharp-cut`, a.

Defn: Cut sharply or definitely, or so as to make a clear, well-
defined impression, as the lines of an engraved plate, and the like;
clear-cut; hence, having great distinctness; well-defined; clear.

SHARPEN
Sharp"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sarpened; p. pr. & vb. n. Sharpening.]
Etym: [See Sharp, a.]

Defn: To make sharp. Specifically:
(a) To give a keen edge or fine point to; to make sharper; as, to
sharpen an ax, or the teeth of a saw.
(b) To render more quick or acute in perception; to make more ready
or ingenious.
The air . . . sharpened his visual ray To objects distant far.
Milton.
He that wrestles with us strengthens our nerves and sharpens our
skill. Burke.

(c) To make more eager; as, to sharpen men's desires.
Epicurean cooks Sharpen with cloyless sauce his appetite. Shak.

(d) To make more pungent and intense; as, to sharpen a pain or
disease.
(e) To make biting, sarcastic, or severe. "Sharpen each word." E.
Smith.
(f) To render more shrill or piercing.
Inclosures not only preserve sound, but increase and sharpen it.
Bacon.

(g) To make more tart or acid; to make sour; as, the rays of the sun
sharpen vinegar.
(h) (Mus. ) To raise, as a sound, by means of a sharp; to apply a
sharp to.

SHARPEN
Sharp"en, v. i.

Defn: To grow or become sharp.

SHARPER
Sharp"er, n.

Defn: A person who bargains closely, especially, one who cheats in
bargains; a swinder; also, a cheating gamester.
Sharpers, as pikes, prey upon their own kind. L'Estrange.

Syn.
 -- Swindler; cheat; deceiver; trickster; rogue. See Swindler.

SHARPIE
Sharp"ie, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A long, sharp, flat-bottomed boat, with one or two masts
carrying a triangular sail. They are often called Fair Haven
sharpies, after the place on the coast of Connecticut where they
originated. [Local, U.S.]

SHARPLING
Sharp"ling, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A stickleback. [Prov. Eng.]

SHARPLY
Sharp"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sharp manner,; keenly; acutely.
They are more sharply to be chastised and reformed than the rude
Irish. Spenser.
The soldiers were sharply assailed with wants. Hayward.
You contract your eye when you would see sharply. Bacon.

SHARPNESS
Sharp"ness, n. Etym: [AS. scearpness.]

Defn: The quality or condition of being sharp; keenness; acuteness.

SHARPSAW
Sharp"saw`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The great titmouse; -- so called from its harsh call notes.
[Prov. Eng.]

SHARP-SET
Sharp"-set`, a.

Defn: Eager in appetite or desire of gratification; affected by keen
hunger; ravenous; as, an eagle or a lion sharp-set.
The town is sharp-set on new plays. Pope.

SHARPSHOOTER
Sharp"shoot`er, n.

Defn: One skilled in shooting at an object with exactness; a good
marksman.

SHARPSHOOTING
Sharp"shoot`ing, n.

Defn: A shooting with great precision and effect; hence, a keen
contest of wit or argument.

SHARP-SIGHTED
Sharp"-sight`ed, a.

Defn: Having quick or acute sight; -- used literally and
figuratively.
 -- Sharp`-sight`ed*ness, n.

SHARPTAIL
Sharp"tail`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The pintail duck.
(b) The pintail grouse, or prairie chicken.

SHARP-WITTED
Sharp"-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Having an acute or nicely discerning mind.

SHASH
Shash, n. Etym: [See Sash.]

1. The scarf of a turban. [Obs.] Fuller.

2. A sash. [Obs.]

SHASTA
Shas"ta, n.

Defn: A mountain peak, etc., in California.

SHASTA DAISY
Shasta daisy.

Defn: A large-flowered garden variety of the oxeye daisy.

SHASTA FIR
Shasta fir.

Defn: A Californian fir (Abies shastensis).

SHASTA SAM
Shasta Sam. (Card Playing)

Defn: A game like California Jack, except that the pack drawn from is
turned face down.

SHASTER; SHASTRA
Shas"ter, Shas"tra, n. Etym: [Skr. castra an order or command, a
sacred book, fr. cas to order, instruct, govern. Cf. Sastra.]

Defn: A treatise for authoritative instruction among the Hindoos; a
book of institutes; especially, a treatise explaining the Vedas.
[Written also sastra.]

SHATHMONT
Shath"mont (, n.

Defn: A shaftment. [Scot.]

SHATTER
Shat"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shattered; p. pr. & vb. n. Shattering.]
Etym: [OE. schateren, scateren, to scatter, to dash, AS. scateran;
cf. D. schateren to crack, to make a great noise, OD. schetteren to
scatter, to burst, to crack. Cf. Scatter.]

1. To break at once into many pieces; to dash, burst, or part
violently into fragments; to rend into splinters; as, an explosion
shatters a rock or a bomb; too much steam shatters a boiler; an oak
is shattered by lightning.
A monarchy was shattered to pieces, and divided amongst revolted
subjects. Locke.

2. To disorder; to derange; to render unsound; as, to be shattered in
intellect; his constitution was shattered; his hopes were shattered.
A man of a loose, volatile, and shattered humor. Norris.

3. To scatter about. [Obs.]
Shatter your leaves before the mellowing year. Milton.

SHATTER
Shat"ter, v. i.

Defn: To be broken into fragments; to fal
Some fragile bodies break but where the force is; some shatter and
fly in many places. Bacon.

SHATTER
Shat"ter, n.

Defn: A fragment of anything shattered; -- used chiefly or soley in
the phrase into shatters; as, to break a glass into shatters. Swift.

SHATTER-BRAINED; SHATTER-PATED
Shat"ter-brained`, Shat"ter-pat`ed, a.

Defn: Disordered or wandering in intellect; hence, heedless; wild. J.
Goodman.

SHATTERY
Shat"ter*y, a.

Defn: Easily breaking into pieces; not compact; loose of texture;
brittle; as, shattery spar.

SHAVE
Shave,

Defn: obs. p. p. of Shave. Chaucer.
His beard was shave as nigh as ever he can. Chaucer.

SHAVE
Shave, v. t. [imp. Shaved;p. p. Shaved or Shaven (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shaving.] Etym: [OE. shaven, schaven, AS. scafan, sceafan; akin to D.
schaven, G. schaben, Icel. skafa, Sw. skafva, Dan. skave, Goth.
scaban, Russ. kopate to dig, Gr. scabere to scratch, to scrape. Cf.
Scab, Shaft, Shape.]

1. To cut or pare off from the surface of a body with a razor or
other edged instrument; to cut off closely, as with a razor; as, to
shave the beard.

2. To make bare or smooth by cutting off closely the surface, or
surface covering, of; especially, to remove the hair from with a
razor or other sharp instrument; to take off the beard or hair of;
as, to shave the face or the crown of the head; he shaved himself.
I'll shave your crown for this. Shak.
The laborer with the bending scythe is seen Shaving the surface of
the waving green. Gay.

3. To cut off thin slices from; to cut in thin slices.
Plants bruised or shaven in leaf or root. Bacon.

4. To skim along or near the surface of; to pass close to, or touch
lightly, in passing.
Now shaves with level wing the deep. Milton.

5. To strip; to plunder; to fleece. [Colloq.] To shave a note, to buy
it at a discount greater than the legal rate of interest, or to
deduct in discounting it more than the legal rate allows. [Cant,
U.S.]

SHAVE
Shave, v. i.

Defn: To use a razor for removing the beard; to cut closely; hence,
to be hard and severe in a bargain; to practice extortion; to cheat.

SHAVE
Shave, n. Etym: [AS. scafa, sceafa, a sort of knife. See Shave, v.
t.]

1. A thin slice; a shaving. Wright.

2. A cutting of the beard; the operation of shaving.

3.
(a) An exorbitant discount on a note. [Cant, U.S.]
(b) A premium paid for an extension of the time of delivery or
payment, or for the right to vary a stock contract in any particular.
[Cant, U.S.] N. Biddle.

4. A hand tool consisting of a sharp blade with a handle at each end;
a drawing knife; a spokeshave.

5. The act of passing very near to, so as almost to graze; as, the
bullet missed by a close shave. [Colloq.] Shave grass (Bot.), the
scouring rush. See the Note under Equisetum.
 -- Shave hook, a tool for scraping metals, consisting of a sharp-
edged triangular steel plate attached to a shank and handle.

SHAVELING
Shave"ling, n.

Defn: A man shaved; hence, a monk, or other religious; -- used in
contempt.
I am no longer a shaveling than while my frock is on my back. Sir W.
Scott.

SHAVER
Shav"er, n.

1. One who shaves; one whose occupation is to shave.

2. One who is close in bargains; a sharper. Swift.

3. One who fleeces; a pillager; a plunderer.
By these shavers the Turks were stripped. Knolles.

4. A boy; a lad; a little fellow. [Colloq.] "These unlucky little
shavers." Salmagundi.
As I have mentioned at the door to this young shaver, I am on a chase
in the name of the king. Dickens.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: A tool or machine for shaving. A note shaver, a person who buys
notes at a discount greater than the legal rate of interest. [Cant,
U.S.]

SHAVING
Shav"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, shaves; specifically, the act
of cutting off the beard with a razor.

2. That which is shaved off; a thin slice or strip pared off with a
shave, a knife, a plane, or other cutting instrument. "Shaving of
silver." Chaucer. Shaving brush, a brush used in lathering the face
preparatory to shaving it.

SHAW
Shaw, n. Etym: [OE. schawe, scha, thicket, grove, AS. scaga; akin to
Dan. skov, Sw. skog, Icel. sk.]

1. A thicket; a small wood or grove. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.]
Burns.
Gaillard he was as goldfinch in the shaw. Chaucer.
The green shaws, the merry green woods. Howitt.

2. pl.

Defn: The leaves and tops of vegetables, as of potatoes, turnips,
etc. [Scot.] Jamieson.

SHAWFOWL
Shaw"fowl`, n. Etym: [Scot. schaw, shaw, show + fowl.]

Defn: The representation or image of a fowl made by fowlers to shoot
at. Johnson.

SHAWL
Shawl, n. Etym: [Per. & Hind. shal: cf. F. chale.]

Defn: A square or oblong cloth of wool, cotton, silk, or other
textile or netted fabric, used, especially by women, as a loose
covering for the neck and shoulders. India shawl, a kind of rich
shawl made in India from the wool of the Cashmere goat. It is woven
in pieces, which are sewed together.
 -- Shawl goat (Zool.), the Cashmere goat.

SHAWL
Shawl, v. t.

Defn: To wrap in a shawl. Thackeray.

SHAWM
Shawm, n. Etym: [OE. shalmie, OF. chalemie; cf. F. chalumeau shawm,
chaume haulm, stalk; all fr. L. calamus a reed, reed pipe. See Haulm,
and cf. Calumet.] (Mus.)

Defn: A wind instrument of music, formerly in use, supposed to have
resembled either the clarinet or the hautboy in form. [Written also
shalm, shaum.] Otway.
Even from the shrillest shaum unto the cornamute. Drayton.

SHAWNEES
Shaw`nees", n. pl.; sing. Shawnee (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A tribe of North American Indians who occupied Western New York
and part of Ohio, but were driven away and widely dispersed by the
Iroquois.

SHAY
Shay, n.

Defn: A chaise. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.]

SHE
She, pron. [sing. nom. She; poss. Her. ( or Hers (; obj. Her; pl.
nom. They; poss. Their or Theirs (; obj. Them.] Etym: [OE. she, sche,
scheo, scho, AS. seo, fem. of the definite article, originally a
demonstrative pronoun; cf. OS. siu, D. zij, G. sie, OHG. siu, si, si,
Icel. su, sja, Goth. si she, so, fem. article, Russ. siia, fem.,
this, Gr. sa, sya. The possessive her or hers, and the objective her,
are from a different root. See Her.]

1. This or that female; the woman understood or referred to; the
animal of the female sex, or object personified as feminine, which
was spoken of.
She loved her children best in every wise. Chaucer.
Then Sarah denied, . . . for she was afraid. Gen. xviii. 15.

2. A woman; a female; -- used substantively. [R.]
Lady, you are the cruelest she alive. Shak.

Note: She is used in composition with nouns of common gender, for
female, to denote an animal of the female sex; as, a she-bear; a she-
cat.

SHEADING
Shead"ing, n. Etym: [From AS. scadan, sceadan, to separate, divide.
See Shed, v. t.]

Defn: A tithing, or division, in the Isle of Man, in which there is a
coroner, or chief constable. The island is divided into six
sheadings.

SHEAF
Sheaf, n. (Mech.)

Defn: A sheave. [R.]

SHEAF
Sheaf, n.; pl. Sheaves. Etym: [OE. sheef, shef, schef, AS. sceaf;
akin to D. schoof, OHG. scoub, G. schaub, Icel. skauf a fox's brush,
and E. shove. See Shove.]

1. A quantity of the stalks and ears of wheat, rye, or other grain,
bound together; a bundle of grain or straw.
The reaper fills his greedy hands, And binds the golden sheaves in
brittle bands. Dryden.

2. Any collection of things bound together; a bundle; specifically, a
bundle of arrows sufficient to fill a quiver, or the allowance of
each archer, -- usually twenty-four.
The sheaf of arrows shook and rattled in the case. Dryden.

SHEAF
Sheaf, v. t.

Defn: To gather and bind into a sheaf; to make into sheaves; as, to
sheaf wheat.

SHEAF
Sheaf, v. i.

Defn: To collect and bind cut grain, or the like; to make sheaves.
They that reap must sheaf and bind. Shak.

SHEAFY
Sheaf"y, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or consisting of, a sheaf or sheaves; resembling
a sheaf.

SHEAL
Sheal, n.

Defn: Same as Sheeling. [Scot.]

SHEAL
Sheal, v. t.

Defn: To put under a sheal or shelter. [Scot.]

SHEAL
Sheal, v. t. Etym: [See Shell.]

Defn: To take the husks or pods off from; to shell; to empty of its
contents, as a husk or a pod. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.] Jamieson.
That's a shealed peascod. Shak.

SHEAL
Sheal, n.

Defn: A shell or pod. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.]

SHEALING
Sheal"ing, n.

Defn: The outer husk, pod, or shell, as of oats, pease, etc.; sheal;
shell. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SHEALING
Sheal"ing, n.

Defn: Same as Sheeling. [Scot.]

SHEAR
Shear, v. t. [imp. Sheared or Shore (;p. p. Sheared or Shorn (; p.
pr. & vb. n. Shearing.] Etym: [OE. sheren, scheren, to shear, cut,
shave, AS. sceran, scieran, scyran; akin to D. & G. scheren, Icel.
skera, Dan. ski, Gr. Jeer, Score, Shard, Share, Sheer to turn aside.]

1. To cut, clip, or sever anything from with shears or a like
instrument; as, to shear sheep; to shear cloth.

Note: It is especially applied to the cutting of wool from sheep or
their skins, and the nap from cloth.

2. To separate or sever with shears or a similar instrument; to cut
off; to clip (something) from a surface; as, to shear a fleece.
Before the golden tresses . . . were shorn away. Shak.

3. To reap, as grain. [Scot.] Jamieson.

4. Fig.: To deprive of property; to fleece.

5. (Mech.)

Defn: To produce a change of shape in by a shear. See Shear, n., 4.

SHEAR
Shear, n. Etym: [AS. sceara. See Shear, v. t.]

1. A pair of shears; -- now always used in the plural, but formerly
also in the singular. See Shears.
On his head came razor none, nor shear. Chaucer.
Short of the wool, and naked from the shear. Dryden.

2. A shearing; -- used in designating the age of sheep.
After the second shearing, he is a two-sher ram; . . . at the
expiration of another year, he is a three-shear ram; the name always
taking its date from the time of shearing. Youatt.

3. (Engin.)

Defn: An action, resulting from applied forces, which tends to cause
two contiguous parts of a body to slide relatively to each other in a
direction parallel to their plane of contact; -- also called shearing
stress, and tangential stress.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: A strain, or change of shape, of an elastic body, consisting of
an extension in one direction, an equal compression in a
perpendicular direction, with an unchanged magnitude in the third
direction. Shear blade, one of the blades of shears or a shearing
machine.
 -- Shear hulk. See under Hulk.
 -- Shear steel, a steel suitable for shears, scythes, and other
cutting instruments, prepared from fagots of blistered steel by
repeated heating, rolling, and tilting, to increase its malleability
and fineness of texture.

SHEAR
Shear, v. i.

1. To deviate. See Sheer.

2. (Engin.)

Defn: To become more or less completely divided, as a body under the
action of forces, by the sliding of two contiguous parts relatively
to each other in a direction parallel to their plane of contact.

SHEARBILL
Shear"bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The black skimmer. See Skimmer.

SHEARD
Sheard, n.

Defn: See Shard. [Obs.]

SHEARER
Shear"er, n.

1. One who shears.
Like a lamb dumb before his shearer. Acts viii. 32.

2. A reaper. [Scot.] Jamieson.

SHEARING
Shear"ing, n.

1. The act or operation of clipping with shears or a shearing
machine, as the wool from sheep, or the nap from cloth.

2. The product of the act or operation of clipping with shears or a
shearing machine; as, the whole shearing of a flock; the shearings
from cloth.

3. Same as Shearling. Youatt.

4. The act or operation of reaping. [Scot.]

5. The act or operation of dividing with shears; as, the shearing of
metal plates.

6. The process of preparing shear steel; tilting.

7. (Mining)

Defn: The process of making a vertical side cutting in working into a
face of coal. Shearing machine. (a) A machine with blades, or rotary
disks, for dividing plates or bars of metal. (b) A machine for
shearing cloth.

SHEARLING
Shear"ling, n.

Defn: A sheep but once sheared.

SHEARMAN
Shear"man, n.; pl. Shearmen (.

Defn: One whose occupation is to shear cloth.

SHEARN
Shearn, n. Etym: [AS. scearn. Cf. Scarn.]

Defn: Dung; excrement. [Obs.] [Written also shern.] Holland.

SHEARS
Shears, n. pl. Etym: [Formerly used also in the singular. See Shear,
n.,1.]

1. A cutting instrument. Specifically:
(a) An instrument consisting of two blades, commonly with bevel
edges, connected by a pivot, and working on both sides of the
material to be cut, -- used for cutting cloth and other substances.
Fate urged the shears, and cut the sylph in twain. Pope.

(b) A similar instrument the blades of which are extensions of a
curved spring, -- used for shearing sheep or skins.
(c) A shearing machine; a blade, or a set of blades, working against
a resisting edge.

2. Anything in the form of shears. Specifically:
(a) A pair of wings. [Obs.] Spenser.
(b) An apparatus for raising heavy weights, and especially for
stepping and unstepping the lower masts of ships. It consists of two
or more spars or pieces of timber, fastened together near the top,
steadied by a guy or guys, and furnished with the necessary tackle.
[Written also sheers.]

3. (Mach.)

Defn: The bedpiece of a machine tool, upon which a table or slide
rest is secured; as, the shears of a lathe or planer. See Illust.
under Lathe. Rotary shears. See under Rotary.

SHEAR STEEL
Shear steel.

Defn: See under Shear.

SHEARTAIL
Shear"tail`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The common tern.
(b) Any one of several species of humming birds of the genus
Thaumastura having a long forked tail.

SHEARWATER
Shear"wa`ter, n. Etym: [Shear + water; cf. G. wassersherer; -- so
called from its running lightly along the surface of the water.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of long-winged oceanic birds of the
genus Puffinus and related genera. They are allied to the petrels,
but are larger. The Manx shearwater (P. Anglorum), the dusky
shearwater (P. obscurus), and the greater shearwater (P. major), are
well-known species of the North Atlantic. See Hagdon.

SHEATFISH
Sheat"fish`, n. Etym: [Cf. dial. G. scheid, schaid, schaiden.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A European siluroid fish (Silurus glanis) allied to the cat-
fishes. It is the largest fresh-water fish of Europe, sometimes
becoming six feet or more in length. See Siluroid.

SHEATH
Sheath, n. Etym: [OE. schethe, AS. sc?edh, sceaedh, sceedh; akin to
OS. skeedhia, D. scheede, G. scheide, OHG. sceida, Sw. skida, Dan.
skede, Icel. skeiedhir, pl., and to E. shed, v.t., originally
meaning, to separate, to part. See Shed.]

1. A case for the reception of a sword, hunting knife, or other long
and slender instrument; a scabbard.
The dead knight's sword out of his sheath he drew. Spenser.

2. Any sheathlike covering, organ, or part. Specifically:
(a) (Bot.) The base of a leaf when sheathing or investing a stem or
branch, as in grasses.
(b) (Zool.) One of the elytra of an insect. Medullary sheath. (Anat.)
See under Medullary.
 -- Primitive sheath. (Anat.) See Neurilemma.
 -- Sheath knife, a knife with a fixed blade, carried in a sheath.
 -- Sheath of Schwann. (Anat.) See Schwann's sheath.

SHEATHBILL
Sheath"bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Either one of two species of birds composing the genus Chionis,
and family Chionid?, native of the islands of the Antarctic.seas.

Note: They are related to the gulls and the plovers, but more nearly
to the latter. The base of the bill is covered with a saddle-shaped
horny sheath, and the toes are only slightly webbed. The plumage of
both species is white.

SHEATHE
Sheathe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sheathed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sheating.]
Etym: [Written also sheath.]

1. To put into a sheath, case, or scabbard; to inclose or cover with,
or as with, a sheath or case.
The leopard . . . keeps the claws of his fore feet turned up from the
ground, and sheathed in the skin of his toes. Grew.
'T is in my breast she sheathes her dagger now. Dryden.

2. To fit or furnish, as with a sheath. Shak.

3. To case or cover with something which protects, as thin boards,
sheets of metal, and the like; as, to sheathe a ship with copper.

4. To obtund or blunt, as acrimonious substances, or sharp particles.
[R.] Arbuthnot. To sheathe the sword, to make peace.

SHEATHED
Sheathed, a.

1. Povided with, or inclosed in, sheath.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Invested by a sheath, or cylindrical membranaceous tube, which
is the base of the leaf, as the stalk or culm in grasses; vaginate.

SHEATHER
Sheath"er, n.

Defn: One who sheathes.

SHEATHFISH
Sheath"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Sheatfish.

SHEATHING
Sheath"ing, p. pr. & a.

Defn: from Sheathe. Inclosing with a sheath; as, the sheathing leaves
of grasses; the sheathing stipules of many polygonaceous plants.

SHEATHING
Sheath"ing, n.

Defn: That which sheathes. Specifically:
(a) The casing or covering of a ship's bottom and sides; the
materials for such covering; as, copper sheathing.
(b) (Arch.) The first covering of boards on the outside wall of a
frame house or on a timber roof; also, the material used for
covering; ceiling boards in general.

SHEATHLESS
Sheath"less, a.

Defn: Without a sheath or case for covering; unsheathed.

SHEATH-WINGED
Sheath"-winged`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having elytra, or wing cases, as a beetle.

SHEATHY
Sheath"y, a.

Defn: Forming or resembling a sheath or case. Sir T. Browne.

SHEA TREE
She"a tree`. (Bot.)

Defn: An African sapotaceous tree (Bassia, or Butyrospermum, Parkii),
from the seeds of which a substance resembling butter is obtained;
the African butter tree.

SHEAVE
Sheave, n. Etym: [Akin to OD. schijve orb, disk, wheel, D. schiff, G.
scheibe, Icel. skifa a shaving, slice; cf. Gr. Shift, v., Shive.]

Defn: A wheel having a groove in the rim for a rope to work in, and
set in a block, mast, or the like; the wheel of a pulley. Sheave
hole, a channel cut in a mast, yard, rail, or other timber, in which
to fix a sheave.

SHEAVE
Sheave, v. t. Etym: [See Sheaf of straw.]

Defn: To gather and bind into a sheaf or sheaves; hence, to collect.
Ashmole.

SHEAVED
Sheaved, a.

Defn: Made of straw. [Obs.] Shak.

SHEBANDER
Sheb"an*der, n. Etym: [Per. shahbandar.]

Defn: A harbor master, or ruler of a port, in the East Indies.
[Written also shebunder.]

SHEBANG
She*bang", n. Etym: [Cf. Shebeen.]

Defn: A jocosely depreciative name for a dwelling or shop.
[Slang,U.S.]

SHEBEEN
She*been", n. Etym: [Of Irish origin; cf. Ir. seapa a shop.]

Defn: A low public house; especially, a place where spirits and other
excisable liquors are illegally and privately sold. [Ireland]

SHECHINAH
She*chi"nah, n.

Defn: See Shekinah.

SHECKLATON
Sheck"la*ton, n. Etym: [Cf. Ciclatoun.]

Defn: A kind of gilt leather. See Checklaton. [Obs.] Spenser.

SHED
Shed, n. Etym: [The same word as shade. See Shade.]

Defn: A slight or temporary structure built to shade or shelter
something; a structure usually open in front; an outbuilding; a hut;
as, a wagon shed; a wood shed.
The first Aletes born in lowly shed. Fairfax.
Sheds of reeds which summer's heat repel. Sandys.

SHED
Shed, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shed; p. pr. & vb. n. Shedding.] Etym: [OE.
scheden, sch, to pour, to part, AS. scadan, sceadan, to pert, to
separate; akin to OS. sk, OFries. skscheiden, OHG. sceidan, Goth.
skaidan, and probably to Lith. skedu I part, separate, L. scindere to
cleave, to split, Gr. chid, and perch. also to L. caedere to cut. sq.
root159. Cf. Chisel, Concise, Schism, Sheading, Sheath, Shide.]

1. To separate; to divide. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] Robert of Brunne.

2. To part with; to throw off or give forth from one's self; to emit;
to diffuse; to cause to emanate or flow; to pour forth or out; to
spill; as, the sun sheds light; she shed tears; the clouds shed rain.
Did Romeo's hand shed Tybalt's blood Shak.
Twice seven consenting years have shed Their utmost bounty on thy
head. Wordsworth.

3. To let fall; to throw off, as a natural covering of hair,
feathers, shell; to cast; as, fowls shed their feathers; serpents
shed their skins; trees shed leaves.

4. To cause to flow off without penetrating; as, a tight roof, or
covering of oiled cloth, sheeds water.

5. To sprinkle; to intersperse; to cover. [R.] "Her hair . . . is
shed with gray." B. Jonson.

6. (Weaving)

Defn: To divide, as the warp threads, so as to form a shed, or
passageway, for the shuttle.

SHED
Shed, v. i.

1. To fall in drops; to pour. [Obs.]
Such a rain down from the welkin shadde. Chaucer.

2. To let fall the parts, as seeds or fruit; to throw off a covering
or envelope.
White oats are apt to shed most as they lie, and black as they stand.
Mortimer.

SHED
Shed, n.

1. A parting; a separation; a division. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.]
They say also that the manner of making the shed of newwedded wives'
hair with the iron head of a javelin came up then likewise. Sir T.
North.

2. The act of shedding or spilling; -- used only in composition, as
in bloodshed.

3. That which parts, divides, or sheds; -- used in composition, as in
watershed.

4. (Weaving)

Defn: The passageway between the threads of the warp through which
the shuttle is thrown, having a sloping top and bottom made by
raising and lowering the alternate threads.

SHEDDER
Shed"der, n.

1. One who, or that which, sheds; as, a shedder of blood; a shedder
of tears.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A crab in the act of casting its shell, or immediately
afterwards while still soft; -- applied especially to the edible
crabs, which are most prized while in this state.

SHEDDING
Shed"ding, n.

1. The act of shedding, separating, or casting off or out; as, the
shedding of blood.

2. That which is shed, or cast off. [R.] Wordsworth.

SHEELFA; SHILFA
Sheel"fa, Shil"fa, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The chaffinch; -- so named from its call note. [Prov. Eng.]

SHEELING
Sheel"ing, n. Etym: [Icel. skj a shelter, a cover; akin to Dan. & Sw.
skjul.]

Defn: A hut or small cottage in an expessed or a retired place (as on
a mountain or at the seaside) such as is used by shepherds,
fishermen, sportsmen, etc.; a summer cottage; also, a shed. [Written
also sheel, shealing, sheiling, etc.] [Scot.]

SHEELY
Sheel"y, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Sheelfa.

SHEEN
Sheen, a. Etym: [OE. sehene, AS. sciene, sc, sc, splendid, beautiful;
akin to OFries. sk, sk, OS. sc, D. schoon, G. schon, OHG. sc, Goth,
skanus, and E. shew; the original meaning being probably, visible,
worth seeing. It is not akin to E. shine. See Shew, v. t.]

Defn: Bright; glittering; radiant; fair; showy; sheeny. [R., except
in poetry.]
This holy maiden, that is so bright and sheen. Chaucer.
Up rose each warrier bold and brave, Glistening in filed steel and
armor sheen. Fairfax.

SHEEN
Sheen, v. i.

Defn: To shine; to glisten. [Poetic]
This town, That, sheening far, celestial seems to be. Byron.

SHEEN
Sheen, n.

Defn: Brightness; splendor; glitter. "Throned in celestial sheen."
Milton.

SHEENLY
Sheen""ly, adv.

Defn: Brightly. [R.] Mrs. Browning.

SHEENY
Sheen"y, a.

Defn: Bright; shining; radiant; sheen. "A sheeny summer morn."
Tennyson.

SHEEP
Sheep, n. sing. & pl. Etym: [OE. shep, scheep, AS. sc, sceap; akin to
OFries. sk, LG. & D. schaap, G. schaf, OHG. scaf, Skr. chaga. sq.
root295. Cf. Sheepherd.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of ruminants of the genus Ovis,
native of the higher mountains of both hemispheres, but most numerous
in Asia.

Note: The domestic sheep (Ovis aries) varies much in size, in the
length and texture of its wool, the form and size of its horns, the
length of its tail, etc. It was domesticated in prehistoric ages, and
many distinct breeds have been produced; as the merinos, celebrated
for their fine wool; the Cretan sheep, noted for their long horns;
the fat-tailed, or Turkish, sheep, remarkable for the size and
fatness of the tail, which often has to be supported on trucks; the
Southdowns, in which the horns are lacking; and an Asiatic breed
which always has four horns.

2. A weak, bashful, silly fellow. Ainsworth.

3. pl.

Defn: Fig.: The people of God, as being under the government and
protection of Christ, the great Shepherd. Rocky mountain
sheep.(Zool.) See Bighorn.
 -- Maned sheep. (Zool.) See Aoudad.
 -- Sheep bot (Zool.), the larva of the sheep botfly. See Estrus.
 -- Sheep dog (Zool.), a shepherd dog, or collie.
 -- Sheep laurel (Bot.), a small North American shrub (Kalmia
angustifolia) with deep rose-colored flowers in corymbs.
 -- Sheep pest (Bot.), an Australian plant (Ac?na ovina) related to
the burnet. The fruit is covered with barbed spines, by which it
adheres to the wool of sheep.
 -- Sheep run, an extensive tract of country where sheep range and
graze.
 -- Sheep's beard (Bot.), a cichoraceous herb (Urospermum
Dalechampii) of Southern Europe; -- so called from the conspicuous
pappus of the achenes.
 -- Sheep's bit (Bot.), a European herb (Jasione montana) having much
the appearance of scabious.
 -- Sheep pox (Med.), a contagious disease of sheep, characterixed by
the development of vesicles or pocks upon the skin.
 -- Sheep scabious. (Bot.) Same as Sheep's bit.
 -- Sheep shears, shears in which the blades form the two ends of a
steel bow, by the elasticity of which they open as often as pressed
together by the hand in cutting; -- so called because used to cut off
the wool of sheep.
 -- Sheep sorrel. (Bot.), a prerennial herb (Rumex Acetosella)
growing naturally on poor, dry, gravelly soil. Its leaves have a
pleasant acid taste like sorrel.
 -- Sheep's-wool (Zool.), the highest grade of Florida commercial
sponges (Spongia equina, variety gossypina).
 -- Sheep tick (Zool.), a wingless parasitic insect (Melophagus
ovinus) belonging to the Diptera. It fixes its proboscis in the skin
of the sheep and sucks the blood, leaving a swelling. Called also
sheep pest, and sheep louse.
 -- Sheep walk, a pasture for sheep; a sheep run.
 -- Wild sheep. (Zool.) See Argali, Mouflon, and Oorial.

SHEEPBACK
Sheep"back`, n. (Geol.)

Defn: A rounded knoll of rock resembling the back of a sheep.
 -- produced by glacial action. Called also roche moutonnee; --
usually in the plural.

SHEEPBERRY
Sheep"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The edible fruit of a small North American tree of the genus
Viburnum (V. Lentago), having white flowers in flat cymes; also, the
tree itself. Called also nannyberry.

SHEEPBITE
Sheep"bite`, v. i.

Defn: To bite or nibble like a sheep; hence, to practice petty
thefts. [Obs.] Shak.

SHEEPBITER
Sheep"bit`er, n.

Defn: One who practices petty thefts. [Obs.] Shak.
There are political sheepbiters as well as pastoral; betrayers of
public trusts as well as of private. L'Estrange.

SHEEPCOT; SHEEPCOTE
Sheep"cot`, Sheep"cote`, n.

Defn: A small inclosure for sheep; a pen; a fold.

SHEEP-FACED
Sheep"-faced`, a.

Defn: Over-bashful; sheepish.

SHEEPFOLD
Sheep"fold`, n.

Defn: A fold or pen for sheep; a place where sheep are collected or
confined.

SHEEP-HEADED
Sheep"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Silly; simple-minded; stupid. Taylor (1630)

SHEEPHOOK
Sheep"hook`, n.

Defn: A hook fastened to pole, by which shepherds lay hold on the
legs or necks of their sheep; a shepherd's crook. Dryden.

SHEEPISH
Sheep"ish, a.

1. Of or pertaining to sheep. [Obs.]

2. Like a sheep; bashful; over-modest; meanly or foolishly diffident;
timorous to excess.
Wanting change of company, he will, when he comes abroad, be a
sheepish or conceited creature. Locke.
-- Sheep"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Sheep"ish*ness, n.

SHEEPMASTER
Sheep"mas`ter, n.

Defn: A keeper or feeder of sheep; also, an owner of sheep. 2 Kings
iii. 4.

SHEEPRACK
Sheep"rack`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The starling.

SHEEP'S-EYE
Sheep's"-eye`, n.

Defn: A modest, diffident look; a loving glance; -- commonly in the
plural.
I saw her just now give him the languishing eye, as they call it; . .
. of old called the sheep's-eye. Wycherley.

SHEEP'S-FOOT
Sheep's-foot`, n.

Defn: A printer's tool consisting of a metal bar formed into a hammer
head at one end and a claw at the other, -- used as a lever and
hammer.

SHEEPSHANK
Sheep"shank`, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A hitch by which a rope may be temporarily shortened.

SHEEPSHEAD
Sheeps"head` (, n. Etym: [So called because of the fancied
resemblance of its head and front teeth to those of a sheep.] (Zool.)

Defn: A large and valuable sparoid food fish (Archosargus, or
Diplodus, probatocephalus) found on the Atlantic coast of the United
States. It often weighs from ten to twelve pounds.

Note: The name is also locally, in a loose way, applied to various
other fishes, as the butterfish, the fresh-water drumfish, the parrot
fish, the porgy, and the moonfish.

SHEEP-SHEARER
Sheep"-shear`er, n.

Defn: One who shears, or cuts off the wool from, sheep.

SHEEP-SHEARING
Sheep"-shear`ing, n.

1. Act of shearing sheep.

2. A feast at the time of sheep-shearing. Shak.

SHEEPSKIN
Sheep"skin`, n.

1. The skin of a sheep; or, leather prepared from it.

2. A diploma; -- so called because usually written or printed on
parchment prepared from the skin of the sheep. [College Cant]

SHEEPSPLIT
Sheep"split`, n.

Defn: A split of a sheepskin; one of the thin sections made by
splitting a sheepskin with a cutting knife or machine.

SHEEPY
Sheep"y, a.

Defn: Resembling sheep; sheepish. Testament of Love.

SHEER
Sheer, a. Etym: [OE. shere, skere, pure, bright, Icel. sk; akin to
skirr, AS. scir, OS. skiri, MHG. schir, G. schier, Dan. sk, Sw. skar,
Goth. skeirs clear, and E. shine. sq. root157. See Shine, v. i.]

1. Bright; clear; pure; unmixed. "Sheer ale." Shak.
Thou sheer, immaculate, and silver fountain. Shak.

2. Very thin or transparent; -- applied to fabrics; as, sheer muslin.

3. Being only what it seems to be; obvious; simple; mere; downright;
as, sheer folly; sheer nonsense. "A sheer impossibility." De Quincey.
It is not a sheer advantage to have several strings to one's bow. M.
Arnold.

4. Stright up and down; vertical; prpendicular.
A sheer precipice of a thousand feet. J. D. Hooker.
It was at least Nine roods of sheer ascent. Wordsworth.

SHEER
Sheer, adv.

Defn: Clean; quite; at once. [Obs.] Milton.

SHEER
Sheer, v. t. Etym: [See Shear.]

Defn: To shear. [Obs.] Dryden.

SHEER
Sheer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sheered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sheering.] Etym:
[D. sheren to shear, cut, withdraw, warp. See Shear.]

Defn: To decline or deviate from the line of the proper course; to
turn aside; to swerve; as, a ship sheers from her course; a horse
sheers at a bicycle. To sheer off, to turn or move aside to a
distance; to move away.
 -- To sheer up, to approach obliquely.

SHEER
Sheer, n.

1. (Naut.)
(a) The longitudinal upward curvature of the deck, gunwale, and lines
of a vessel, as when viewed from the side.
(b) The position of a vessel riding at single anchor and swinging
clear of it.

2. A turn or change in a course.
Give the canoe a sheer and get nearer to the shore. Cooper.

3. pl.

Defn: Shears See Shear. Sheer batten (Shipbuilding), a long strip of
wood to guide the carpenters in following the sheer plan.
 -- Sheer boom, a boom slanting across a stream to direct floating
logs to one side.
 -- Sheer hulk. See Shear hulk, under Hulk.
 -- Sheer plan, or Sheer draught (Shipbuilding), a projection of the
lines of a vessel on a vertical longitudinal plane passing through
the middle line of the vessel.
 -- Sheer pole (Naut.), an iron rod lashed to the shrouds just above
the dead-eyes and parallel to the ratlines.
 -- Sheer strake (Shipbuilding), the strake under the gunwale on the
top side. Totten.
 -- To break sheer (Naut.), to deviate from sheer, and risk fouling
the anchor.

SHEERLY
Sheer"ly, adv.

Defn: At once; absolutely. [Obs.]

SHEERWATER
Sheer"wa`ter, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The shearwater.

SHEET
Sheet, n. Etym: [OE. shete, schete, AS. sc, sc, fr. sceat a
projecting corner, a fold in a garment (akin to D. schoot sheet,
bosom, lap, G. schoss bosom, lap, flap of a coat, Icel. skaut, Goth.
skauts the hem of a garment); originally, that which shoots out, from
the root of AS. sceotan to shoot. sq. root159. See Shoot, v. t.]

Defn: In general, a large, broad piece of anything thin, as paper,
cloth, etc.; a broad, thin portion of any substance; an expanded
superficies. Specifically:
(a) A broad piece of cloth, usually linen or cotton, used for
wrapping the body or for a covering; especially, one used as an
article of bedding next to the body.
He fell into a trance, and saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel
descending unto him, as it had been a great sheet knit at the four
corners. Acts x. 10, 11.
If I do die before thee, prithee, shroud me In one of those same
sheets. Shak.

(b) A broad piece of paper, whether folded or unfolded, whether blank
or written or printed upon; hence, a letter; a newspaper, etc.
(c) A single signature of a book or a pamphlet; in pl., the book
itself.
To this the following sheets are intended for a full and distinct
answer. Waterland.

(d) A broad, thinly expanded portion of metal or other substance; as,
a sheet of copper, of glass, or the like; a plate; a leaf.
(e) A broad expanse of water, or the like. "The two beautiful sheets
of water." Macaulay.
(f) A sail. Dryden.
(g) (Geol.) An extensive bed of an eruptive rock intruded between, or
overlying, other strata.

2. Etym: [AS. sceata. See the Etymology above.] (Naut.)
(a) A rope or chain which regulates the angle of adjustment of a sail
in relation in relation to the wind; -- usually attached to the lower
corner of a sail, or to a yard or a boom. (b) pl.

Defn: The space in the forward or the after part of a boat where
there are no rowers; as, fore sheets; stern sheets.

Note: Sheet is often used adjectively, or in combination, to denote
that the substance to the name of which it is prefixed is in the form
of sheets, or thin plates or leaves; as, sheet brass, or sheet-brass;
sheet glass, or sheet-glass; sheet gold, or sheet-gold; sheet iron,
or sheet-iron, etc. A sheet in the wind, half drunk. [Sailors' Slang]
-- Both sheets in the wind, very drunk. [Sailors' Slang] -- In
sheets, lying flat or expanded; not folded, or folded but not bound;
-- said especially of printed sheets.
 -- Sheet bend (Naut.), a bend or hitch used for temporarily
fastening a rope to the bight of another rope or to an eye.
 -- Sheet lightning, Sheet piling, etc. See under Lightning, Piling,
etc.

SHEET
Sheet, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sheeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sheeting.]

1. To furnish with a sheet or sheets; to wrap in, or cover with, a
sheet, or as with a sheet. "The sheeted dead." "When snow the pasture
sheets." Shak.

2. To expand, as a sheet.
The star shot flew from the welkin blue, As it fell from the sheeted
sky. J. R. Drake.
To sheet home (Naut.), to haul upon a sheet until the sail is as
flat, and the clew as near the wind, as possible.

SHEET ANCHOR
Sheet" an"chor. Etym: [OE. scheten to shoot, AS. sceotan; cf. OE.
shoot anchor. See Shoot, v. t.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A large anchor stowed on shores outside the waist of a vessel;
-- called also waist anchor. See the Note under Anchor.

2. Anything regarded as a sure support or dependence in danger; the
best hope or refuge.

SHEET CABLE
Sheet" ca"ble. (Naut.)

Defn: The cable belonging to the sheet anchor.

SHEET CHAIN
Sheet" chain". (Naut.)

Defn: A chain sheet cable.

SHEETFUL
Sheet"ful, n.; pl. Sheetfuls (.

Defn: Enough to fill a sheet; as much as a sheet can hold.

SHEETING
Sheet"ing, n.

1. Cotton or linen cloth suitable for bed sheets. It is sometimes
made of double width.

2. (Hydraul. Engin.)

Defn: A lining of planks or boards (rarely of metal) for protecting
an embankment.

3. The act or process of forming into sheets, or flat pieces; also,
material made into sheets.

SHEIK
Sheik, n. Etym: [Ar. sheikh, shaykh, a venerable old man, a chief,
fr. shakha to grow or be old.]

Defn: The head of an Arab family, or of a clan or a tribe; also, the
chief magistrate of an Arab village. The name is also applied to
Mohammedan ecclesiastics of a high grade. [Written also scheik,
shaik, sheikh.]

SHEIL; SHEILING
Sheil, Sheil"ing, n.

Defn: See Sheeling.

SHEKEL
Shek"el, n. Etym: [Heb. shegel, fr. shagal to weigh.]

1. An ancient weight and coin used by the Jews and by other nations
of the same stock.

Note: A common estimate makes the shekel equal in weight to about 130
grains for gold, 224 grains for silver, and 450 grains for copper,
and the approximate values of the coins are (gold) $5.00, (silver) 60
cents, and (copper half shekel), one and one half cents.

2. pl.

Defn: A jocose term for money.

SHEKINAH
She*ki"nah, n. Etym: [Heb Talmud shekinah, fr. shakan to inhabit.]

Defn: The visible majesty of the Divine Presence, especially when
resting or dwelling between the cherubim on the mercy seat, in the
Tabernacle, or in the Temple of Solomon; -- a term used in the
Targums and by the later Jews, and adopted by Christians. [Written
also Shechinah.] Dr. W. Smith (Bib. Dict.)

SHELD
Sheld, a. Etym: [OE., fr. sheld a shield, probably in allusion to the
ornamentation of shields. See Shield.]

Defn: Variegated; spotted; speckled; piebald. [Prov. Eng.]

SHELDAFLE; SHELDAPLE
Sheld"a*fle, Sheld"a*ple, n. Etym: [Perhaps for sheld dapple. Cf.
Sheldrake.] (Zool.)

Defn: A chaffinch. [Written also sheldapple, and shellapple.]

SHELDFOWL
Sheld"fowl`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The common sheldrake. [Prov. Eng.]

SHELDRAKE
Shel"drake`, n. Etym: [Sheld + drake.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large Old World ducks of the
genus Tadorna and allied genera, especially the European and Asiatic
species. (T. cornuta, or tadorna), which somewhat resembles a goose
in form and habit, but breeds in burrows.

Note: It has the head and neck greenish black, the breast, sides, and
forward part of the back brown, the shoulders and middle of belly
black, the speculum green, and the bill and frontal bright red.
Called also shelduck, shellduck, sheldfowl, skeelduck, bergander,
burrow duck, and links goose.

Note: The Australian sheldrake (Tadorna radja) has the head, neck,
breast, flanks, and wing coverts white, the upper part of the back
and a band on the breast deep chestnut, and the back and tail black.
The chestnut sheldrake of Australia (Casarca tadornoides) is varied
with black and chestnut, and has a dark green head and neck. The
ruddy sheldrake, or Braminy duck (C. rutila), and the white-winged
sheldrake (C. leucoptera), are related Asiatic species.

2. Any one of the American mergansers.

Note: The name is also loosely applied to other ducks, as the
canvasback, and the shoveler.

SHELDUCK
Shel"duck`, n. Etym: [Sheld variegated + duck.] (Zool.)

Defn: The sheldrake. [Written also shellduck.]

SHELF
Shelf, n.; pl. Shelves. Etym: [OE. shelfe, schelfe, AS. scylfe; akin
to G. schelfe, Icel. skjalf. In senses 2 & 3, perhaps a different
word (cf. Shelve, v. i.).]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A flat tablet or ledge of any material set horizontally at a
distance from the floor, to hold objects of use or ornament.

2. A sand bank in the sea, or a rock, or ledge of rocks, rendering
the water shallow, and dangerous to ships.
On the tawny sands and shelves. Milton.
On the secret shelves with fury cast. Dryden.

3. (Mining)

Defn: A stratum lying in a very even manner; a flat, projecting layer
of rock.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A piece of timber running the whole length of a vessel inside
the timberheads. D. Kemp. To lay on the shelf, to lay aside as
unnecessary or useless; to dismiss; to discard.

SHELFY
Shelf"y, a.

1. Abounding in shelves; full of dangerous shallows. "A shelfy
coast." Dryden.

2. Full of strata of rock. [Obs.]
The tillable fields are in some places . . . so shelfy that the corn
hath much ado to fasten its root. Carew.

SHELL
Shell, n. Etym: [OE. shelle, schelle, AS. scell, scyll; akin to D.
shel, Icel. skel, Goth. skalja a tile, and E. skill. Cf. Scale of
fishes, Shale, Skill.]

1. A hard outside covering, as of a fruit or an animal. Specifically:
(a) The covering, or outside part, of a nut; as, a hazelnut shell.
(b) A pod.
(c) The hard covering of an egg.
Think him as a serpent's egg, . . . And kill him in the shell. Shak.
(d) (Zool.)

Defn: The hard calcareous or chitinous external covering of mollusks,
crustaceans, and some other invertebrates. In some mollusks, as the
cuttlefishes, it is internal, or concealed by the mantle. Also, the
hard covering of some vertebrates, as the armadillo, the tortoise,
and the like.
(e) (Zool.) Hence, by extension, any mollusks having such a covering.

2. (Mil.)

Defn: A hollow projectile, of various shapes, adapted for a mortar or
a cannon, and containing an explosive substance, ignited with a fuse
or by percussion, by means of which the projectile is burst and its
fragments scattered. See Bomb.

3. The case which holds the powder, or charge of powder and shot,
used with breechloading small arms.

4. Any slight hollow structure; a framework, or exterior structure,
regarded as not complete or filled in; as, the shell of a house.

5. A coarse kind of coffin; also, a thin interior coffin inclosed in
a more substantial one. Knight.

6. An instrument of music, as a lyre, -- the first lyre having been
made, it is said, by drawing strings over a tortoise shell.
When Jubal struck the chorded shell. Dryden.

7. An engraved copper roller used in print works.

8. pl.

Defn: The husks of cacao seeds, a decoction of which is often used as
a substitute for chocolate, cocoa, etc.

9. (Naut.)

Defn: The outer frame or case of a block within which the sheaves
revolve.

10. A light boat the frame of which is covered with thin wood or with
paper; as, a racing shell. Message shell, a bombshell inside of which
papers may be put, in order to convey messages.
 -- Shell bit, a tool shaped like a gouge, used with a brace in
boring wood. See Bit, n., 3.
 -- Shell button. (a) A button made of shell. (b) A hollow button
made of two pieces, as of metal, one for the front and the other for
the back, -- often covered with cloth, silk, etc.
 -- Shell cameo, a cameo cut in shell instead of stone.
 -- Shell flower. (Bot.) Same as Turtlehead.
 -- Shell gland. (Zool.) (a) A glandular organ in which the
rudimentary shell is formed in embryonic mollusks. (b) A glandular
organ which secretes the eggshells of various worms, crustacea,
mollusks, etc.
 -- Shell gun, a cannon suitable for throwing shells.
 -- Shell ibis (Zool.), the openbill of India.
 -- Shell jacket, an undress military jacket.
 -- Shell lime, lime made by burning the shells of shellfish.
 -- Shell marl (Min.), a kind of marl characterized by an abundance
of shells, or fragments of shells.
 -- Shell meat, food consisting of shellfish, or testaceous mollusks.
Fuller.
 -- Shell mound. See under Mound.
 -- Shell of a boiler, the exterior of a steam boiler, forming a case
to contain the water and steam, often inclosing also flues and the
furnace; the barrel of a cylindrical, or locomotive, boiler.
 -- Shell road, a road of which the surface or bed is made of shells,
as oyster shells.
 -- Shell sand, minute fragments of shells constituting a
considerable part of the seabeach in some places.

SHELL
Shell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shelled; p. pr. & vb. n. Shelling.]

1. To strip or break off the shell of; to take out of the shell, pod,
etc.; as, to shell nuts or pease; to shell oysters.

2. To separate the kernels of (an ear of Indian corn, wheat, oats,
etc.) from the cob, ear, or husk.

3. To throw shells or bombs upon or into; to bombard; as, to shell a
town. To shell out, to distribute freely; to bring out or pay, as
money. [Colloq.]

SHELL
Shell, v. i.

1. To fall off, as a shell, crust, etc.

2. To cast the shell, or exterior covering; to fall out of the pod or
husk; as, nuts shell in falling.

3. To be disengaged from the ear or husk; as, wheat or rye shells in
reaping.

SHELLAC; SHELL-LAC
Shel"lac`, Shell"-lac`, n. Etym: [Shell + lac a resinous substance;
cf. D. shellak, G. schellack.]

Defn: See the Note under 2d Lac.

SHELLAPPLE
Shell"ap`ple, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Sheldafle.

SHELLBARK
Shell"bark`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of hickory (Carya alba) whose outer bark is loose and
peeling; a shagbark; also, its nut.

SHELLED
Shelled, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a shell.

SHELLER
Shell"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, shells; as, an oyster sheller; a corn
sheller.

SHELLFISH
Shell"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any aquatic animal whose external covering consists of a shell,
either testaceous, as in oysters, clams, and other mollusks, or
crustaceous, as in lobsters and crabs.

SHELLING
Shell"ing, n.

Defn: Groats; hulled oats. Simmonds.

SHELL-LESS
Shell"-less

Defn: , a. Having no shell. J. Burroughs.

SHELLPROOF
Shell"proof`, a.

Defn: Capable of resisting bombs or other shells; bombproof.

SHELLWORK
Shell"work`, n.

Defn: Work composed of shells, or adorned with them. Cotgrave.

SHELLY
Shell"y, a.

Defn: Abounding with shells; consisting of shells, or of a shell.
"The shelly shore." Prior.
Shrinks backward in his shelly cave. Shak.

SHELTER
Shel"ter, n. Etym: [Cf. OE. scheltrun, shiltroun, schelltrome,
scheldtrome, a guard, squadron, AS. scildtruma a troop of men with
shields; scild shield + truma a band of men. See Shield, n.]

1. That which covers or defends from injury or annoyance; a
protection; a screen.
The sick and weak the healing plant shall aid, From storms a shelter,
and from heat a shade. Pope.

2. One who protects; a guardian; a defender.
Thou [God] hast been a shelter for me. Ps. lxi. 3.

3. The state of being covered and protected; protection; security.
Who into shelter takes their tender bloom. Young.
Shelter tent,a small tent made of pieces of cotton duck arranged to
button together. In field service the soldiers carry the pieces.

Syn.
 -- Asylum; refuge; retreat; covert; sanctuary; protection; defense;
security.

SHELTER
Shel"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sheltered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sheltering.]

1. To be a shelter for; to provide with a shelter; to cover from
injury or annoyance; to shield; to protect.
Those ruins sheltered once his sacred head. Dryden.
You have no convents . . . in which such persons may be received and
sheltered. Southey.

2. To screen or cover from notice; to disguise.
In vain I strove to cheek my growing flame, Or shelter passion under
friendship's name. Prior.

3. To betake to cover, or to a safe place; -- used reflexively.
They sheltered themselves under a rock. Abp. Abbot.

SHELTER
Shel"ter, v. i.

Defn: To take shelter.
There oft the Indian herdsman, shunning heat, Shelters in cool.
Milton.

SHELTERLESS
Shel"ter*less, a.

Defn: Destitute of shelter or protection.
Now sad and shelterless perhaps she lies. Rowe.

SHELTERY
Shel"ter*y, a.

Defn: Affording shelter. [R.]

SHELTIE; SHELTY
Shel"tie, Shel"ty, n.

Defn: A Shetland pony.

SHELVE
Shelve, v. t.

1. To furnish with shelves; as, to shelve a closet or a library.

2. To place on a shelf. Hence: To lay on the shelf; to put aside; to
dismiss from service; to put off indefinitely; as, to shelve an
officer; to shelve a claim.

SHELVE
Shelve, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shelved; p. pr. & vb. n. Shelving.] Etym:
[Perhapss originally from the same source as shallow, but influenced
by shelf a ledge, a platform.]

Defn: To incline gradually; to be slopping; as, the bottom shelves
from the shore.

SHELVING
Shelv"ing, a.

Defn: Sloping gradually; inclining; as, a shelving shore. Shak.
"Shelving arches." Addison.

SHELVING
Shelv"ing, n.

1. The act of fitting up shelves; as, the job of shelving a closet.

2. The act of laying on a shelf, or on the shelf; putting off or
aside; as, the shelving of a claim.

3. Material for shelves; shelves, collectively.

SHELVY
Shelv"y, a.

Defn: Sloping gradually; shelving.
The shore was shelving and shallow. Shak.

SHEMITE
Shem"ite, n.

Defn: A descendant of Shem.

SHEMITIC; SHEMITISH
Shem*it"ic, Shem"i*tish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Shem, the son of Noah, or his descendants.
See Semitic.

SHEMITISM
Shem"i*tism, n.

Defn: See Semitism.

SHEND
Shend, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shent; p. pr. & vb. n. Shending.] Etym:
[AS. scendan to disgrace, bring to shame, from sceand, sceond,
disgrace, dishonor, shame; akin to G. schande, Goth. skanda. See
Shame, n.]

1. To injure, mar, spoil, or harm. [Obs.] "Loss of time shendeth us."
Chaucer.
I fear my body will be shent. Dryden.

2. To blame, reproach, or revile; to degrade, disgrace, or put to
shame. [Archaic] R. Browning.
The famous name of knighthood foully shend. Spenser.
She passed the rest as Cynthia doth shend The lesser stars. Spenser.

SHENDFUL
Shend"ful, a.

Defn: Destructive; ruinous; disgraceful. [Obs.] -- Shend"ful*ly, adv.
[Obs.] Fabyan.

SHENDSHIP
Shend"ship, n.

Defn: Harm; ruin; also, reproach; disgrace. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SHENT
Shent,

Defn: obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Shend, for shendeth. Chaucer.

SHENT
Shent, v. t.

Defn: To shend. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SHEOL
She"ol, n. Etym: [Heb. sh.]

Defn: The place of departed spirits; Hades; also, the grave.
For thou wilt not leave my soul to sheel. Ps. xvi. 10. (Rev. Ver.)

SHEPEN
Shep"en, n.

Defn: A stable; a shippen. [Obs.]
The shepne brenning with the blacke smoke. Chaucer.

SHEPHERD
Shep"herd, n. Etym: [OE. schepherde, schephirde, AS. sceaphyrde;
sceap sheep + hyrde, hirde, heorde, a herd, a guardian. See Sheep,
and Herd.]

1. A man employed in tending, feeding, and guarding sheep, esp. a
flock grazing at large.

2. The pastor of a church; one with the religious guidance of others.
Shepherd bird (Zool.), the crested screamer. See Screamer.
 -- Shepherd dog (Zool.), a breed of dogs used largely for the
herding and care of sheep. There are several kinds, as the collie, or
Scotch shepherd dog, and the English shepherd dog. Called also
shepherd's dog.
 -- Shepherd dog, a name of Pan. Keats.
 -- Shepherd kings, the chiefs of a nomadic people who invaded Egypt
from the East in the traditional period, and conquered it, at least
in part. They were expelled after about five hundred years, and
attempts have been made to connect their expulsion with narrative in
the book of Exodus.
 -- Shepherd's club (Bot.), the common mullein. See Mullein.
 -- Shepherd's crook, a long staff having the end curved so as to
form a large hook, -- used by shepherds.
 -- Shepherd's needle (Bot.), the lady's comb.
 -- Shepherd's plaid, a kind of woolen cloth of a checkered black and
white pattern.
 -- Shephered spider (Zool.), a daddy longlegs, or harvestman.
 -- Shepherd's pouch, or Shepherd's purse (Bot.), an annual
cruciferous plant (Capsella Bursapastoris) bearing small white
flowers and pouchlike pods. See Illust. of Silicle.
 -- Shepherd's rod, or Shepherd's staff (Bot.), the small teasel.

SHEPHERD
Shep"herd, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shepherded; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shepherding.]

Defn: To tend as a shepherd; to guard, herd, lead, or drive, as a
shepherd. [Poetic]
White, fleecy clouds . . .
Shepherded by the slow, unwilling wind. Shelley.

SHEPHERDESS
Shep"herd*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who tends sheep; hence, a rural lass.
She put herself into the garb of a shepherdess. Sir P. Sidney.

SHEPHERDIA
Shep*her"di*a, n.; pl. Shepherdias. Etym: [NL. So called from John
Shepherd, an English botanist.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of shrubs having silvery scurfy leaves, and belonging
to the same family as El?agnus; also, any plant of this genus. See
Buffalo berry, under Buffalo.

SHEPHERDISH
Shep"herd*ish, n.

Defn: Resembling a shepherd; suiting a shepherd; pastoral. Sir T.
Sidney.

SHEPHERDISM
Shep"herd*ism, n.

Defn: Pastoral life or occupation.

SHEPHERDLING
Shep"herd*ling, n.

Defn: A little shepherd.

SHEPHERDLY
Shep"herd*ly, a.

Defn: Resembling, or becoming to, a shepherd; pastoral; rustic. [R.]
Jer. Taylor.

SHEPSTER
Shep"ster, n.

Defn: A seamstress. [Obs.] Caxton.

SHERARDIZE
Sher"ard*ize, v. t. [From Sherard Cowper-Coles, the inventor.]
(Metal.)

Defn: To subject to the process of vapor galvanizing (which see,
below).

SHERBET
Sher"bet, n. Etym: [Ar. sherbet, shorbet, sharbat, properly, one
drink or sip, a draught, beverage, from shariba to drink. Cf. Sorbet,
Sirup, Shrub a drink.]

1. A refreshing drink, common in the East, made of the juice of some
fruit, diluted, sweetened, and flavored in various ways; as, orange
sherbet; lemon sherbet; raspberry sherbet, etc.

2. A flavored water ice.

3. A preparation of bicarbonate of soda, tartaric acid, sugar, etc.,
variously flavored, for making an effervescing drink; -- called also
sherbet powder.

SHERD
Sherd, n.

Defn: A fragment; -- now used only in composition, as in potsherd.
See Shard.
The thigh . . . which all in sherds it drove. Chapman.

SHEREEF; SHERIF
Sher"eef, Sher"if, n. Etym: [Ar. sherif noble, holy, n., a prince.]

Defn: A member of an Arab princely family descended from Mohammed
through his son-in-law Ali and daughter Fatima. The Grand Shereef is
the governor of Mecca.

SHERIAT
Sher"i*at, n. Etym: [Turk. sheri 'at]

Defn: The sacred law of the Turkish empire.

SHERIFF
Sher"iff, n. Etym: [OE. shereve, AS. scir-ger; scir a shire + ger a
reeve. See Shire, and Reeve, and cf. Shrievalty.]

Defn: The chief officer of a shire or county, to whom is intrusted
the execution of the laws, the serving of judicial writs and
processes, and the preservation of the peace.

Note: In England, sheriffs are appointed by the king. In the United
States, sheriffs are elected by the legislature or by the citizens,
or appointed and commissioned by the executive of the State. The
office of sheriff in England is judicial and ministerial. In the
United States, it is mainly ministerial. The sheriff, by himself or
his deputies, executes civil and criminal process throughout the
county, has charge of the jail and prisoners, attends courts, and
keeps the peace. His judicial authority is generally confined to
ascertaining damages on writs of inquiry and the like. Sheriff, in
Scotland, called sheriff depute, is properly a judge, having also
certain ministerial powers. Sheriff clerk is the clerk of the
Sheriff's Court in Scotland. Sheriff's Court in London is a tribunal
having cognizance of certain personal actions in that city. Wharton,
Tomlins. Erskine.

SHERIFFALTY; SHERIFFDOM; SHERIFFRY; SHERIFFSHIP; SHERIFFWICK
Sher"iff*al*ty, Sher"iff*dom, Sher"iff*ry, Sher"iff*ship,
Sher"iff*wick, n.

Defn: The office or jurisdiction of sheriff. See Shrievalty.

SHERN
Shern, n.

Defn: See Shearn. [Obs.]

SHERRIS
Sher"ris, n.

Defn: Sherry. [Obs.] Shak.

SHERRY
Sher"ry, n. Etym: [So called from Xeres, a Spanish town near Cadiz, x
in Spanish having been formerly pronounced like sh in English.]

Defn: A Spanish light-colored dry wine, made in Andalusia. As
prepared for commerce it is colored a straw color or a deep amber by
mixing with it cheap wine boiled down. Sherry cobbler, a beverage
prepared with sherry wine, water, lemon or orange, sugar, ice, etc.,
and usually imbided through a straw or a glass tube.

SHERRYVALLIES
Sher"ry*val`lies, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. Sp. zaraquelles wide breeches or
overalls.]

Defn: Trousers or overalls of thick cloth or leather, buttoned on the
outside of each leg, and generally worn to protect other trousers
when riding on horseback. [Local, U.S.] Bartlett.

SHET
Shet, v. t. & i. [imp. Shet. (Obs. Shette (); p. pr. Shet; p. pr. &
vb. n. Shetting.]

Defn: To shut. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Chaucer.

SHETE
Shete, v. t. & i.

Defn: To shoot. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SHETH
Sheth, n.

Defn: The part of a plow which projects downward beneath the beam,
for holding the share and other working parts; -- also called
standard, or post.

SHETLAND PONY
Shet"land po"ny.

Defn: One of a small, hardy breed of horses, with long mane and tail,
which originated in the Shetland Islands; a sheltie.

SHEW
Shew, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Show.

SHEW
Shew, n.

Defn: Show. [Obs. except in shewbread.]

SHEWBREAD
Shew"bread`.

Defn: See Showbread.

SHEWEL
Shew"el, n.

Defn: A scarecrow. [Obs.] Trench.

SHEWER
Shew"er, n.

Defn: One who shews. See Shower.

SHEWN
Shewn,

Defn: p. p. of Shew.

SHIAH
Shi"ah, n.

Defn: Same as Shiite.

SHIBBOLETH
Shib"bo*leth, n. Etym: [Heb. shibboleth an ear of corn, or a stream,
a flood.]

1. A word which was made the criterion by which to distinguish the
Ephraimites from the Gileadites. The Ephraimites, not being able to
pronounce sh, called the word sibboleth. See Judges xii.
Without reprieve, adjudged to death, For want of well pronouncing
shibboleth. Milton.

Defn: Also in an extended sense.
The th, with its twofold value, is . . . the shibboleth of
foreigners. Earle.

2. Hence, the criterion, test, or watchword of a party; a party cry
or pet phrase.

SHICER
Shi"cer (shi"ser), n. [Prob. fr. G. scheisser one who dungs.]
(Mining)

Defn: An unproductive mine; a duffer. [Australia]

SHIDE
Shide, n. Etym: [OE. shide, schide, AS. scide; akin to OHG. scit, G.
scheit, Icel. ski, and E. shed, v.t.]

Defn: A thin board; a billet of wood; a splinter. [Prov. Eng.]

SHIE
Shie, v. t.

Defn: See Shy, to throw.

SHIED
Shied,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Shy.

SHIEL
Shiel, n.

Defn: A sheeling. [Scot.] Burns.

SHIELD
Shield, n. Etym: [OE. sheld, scheld, AS. scield, scild, sceld, scyld;
akin to OS. scild, OFries. skeld, D. & G. schild, OHG. scilt, Icel.
skjoldr, Sw. skold, Dan. skiold, Goth. skildus; of uncertain origin.
Cf. Sheldrake.]

1. A broad piece of defensive armor, carried on the arm, -- formerly
in general use in war, for the protection of the body. See Buckler.
Now put your shields before your hearts and fight, With hearts more
proof than shields. Shak.

2. Anything which protects or defends; defense; shelter; protection.
"My council is my shield." Shak.

3. Figuratively, one who protects or defends.
Fear not, Abram; I am thy shield, and thy exceeding great reward.
Gen. xv. 1.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: In lichens, a Hardened cup or disk surrounded by a rim and
containing the fructification, or asci.

5. (Her.)

Defn: The escutcheon or field on which are placed the bearings in
coats of arms. Cf. Lozenge. See Illust. of Escutcheon.

6. (Mining & Tunneling)

Defn: A framework used to protect workmen in making an adit under
ground, and capable of being pushed along as excavation progresses.

7. A spot resembling, or having the form of, a shield. "Bespotted as
with shields of red and black." Spenser.

8. A coin, the old French crown, or ecu, having on one side the
figure of a shield. [Obs.] Chaucer. Shield fern (Bot.), any fern of
the genus Aspidium, in which the fructifications are covered with
shield-shaped indusia; -- called also wood fern. See Illust. of
Indusium.

SHIELD
Shield, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shielded; p. pr. & vb. n. Shielding.]
Etym: [AS. scidan, scyldan. See Shield, n.]

1. To cover with, or as with, a shield; to cover from danger; to
defend; to protect from assault or injury.
Shouts of applause ran ringing through the field, To see the son the
vanquished father shield. Dryden.
A woman's shape doth shield thee. Shak.

2. To ward off; to keep off or out.
They brought with them their usual weeds, fit to shield the cold to
which they had been inured. Spenser.

3. To avert, as a misfortune; hence, as a supplicatory exclamation,
forbid! [Obs.]
God shield that it should so befall. Chaucer.
God shield I should disturb devotion! Shak.

SHIELD-BEARER
Shield"-bear`er, n.

1. One who, or that which, carries a shield.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any small moth of the genus Aspidisca, whose larva makes a
shieldlike covering for itself out of bits of leaves.

SHIELDDRAKE
Shield"drake`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A sheldrake.

SHIELDLESS
Shield"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of a shield, or of protection.
 -- Shield"less*ly, adv.
 -- Shield"less*ness, n.

SHIELDTAIL
Shield"tail`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of small burrowing snakes of the family Uropeltid?,
native of Ceylon and Southern Asia. They have a small mouth which can
not be dilated.

SHIELING
Shiel"ing, n.

Defn: A hut or shelter for shepherds of fishers. See Sheeling.
[Scot.]

SHIFT
Shift, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shifted; p. pr. & vb. n. Shifting.] Etym:
[OE. shiften, schiften, to divide, change, remove. AS. sciftan to
divide; akin to LG. & D. schiften to divide, distinguish, part Icel.
skipta to divide, to part, to shift, to change, Dan skifte, Sw.
skifta, and probably to Icel. skifa to cut into slices, as n., a
slice, and to E. shive, sheave, n., shiver, n.]

1. To divide; to distribute; to apportion. [Obs.]
To which God of his bounty would shift Crowns two of flowers well
smelling. Chaucer.

2. To change the place of; to move or remove from one place to
another; as, to shift a burden from one shoulder to another; to shift
the blame.
Hastily he schifte him[self]. Piers Plowman.
Pare saffron between the two St. Mary's days, Or set or go shift it
that knowest the ways. Tusser.

3. To change the position of; to alter the bearings of; to turn; as,
to shift the helm or sails.
Carrying the oar loose, [they] shift it hither and thither at
pleasure. Sir W. Raleigh.

4. To exchange for another of the same class; to remove and to put
some similar thing in its place; to change; as, to shift the clothes;
to shift the scenes.
I would advise you to shift a shirt. Shak.

5. To change the clothing of; -- used reflexively. [Obs.]
As it were to ride day and night; and . . . not to have patience to
shift me. Shak.

6. To put off or out of the way by some expedient. "I shifted him
away." Shak. To shift off, to delay; to defer; to put off; to lay
aside.
 -- To shift the scene, to change the locality or the surroundings,
as in a play or a story.
Shift the scene for half an hour; Time and place are in thy power.
Swift.

SHIFT
Shift, v. i.

1. To divide; to distribute. [Obs.]
Some this, some that, as that him liketh shift. Chaucer.

2. To make a change or changes; to change position; to move; to veer;
to substitute one thing for another; -- used in the various senses of
the transitive verb.
The sixth age shifts Into the lean and slippered pantaloon. Shak.
Here the Baillie shifted and fidgeted about in his seat. Sir W.
Scott.

3. To resort to expedients for accomplishing a purpose; to contrive;
to manage.
Men in distress will look to themselves, and leave their companions
to schift as well as they can. L'Estrange.

4. To practice indirect or evasive methods.
All those schoolmen, though they were exceeding witty, yet better
teach all their followers to shift, than to resolve by their
distinctions. Sir W. Raleigh.

5. (Naut.)

Defn: To slip to one side of a ship, so as to destroy the equilibrum;
-- said of ballast or cargo; as, the cargo shifted.

SHIFT
Shift, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel skipti. See Shift, v. t.]

1. The act of shifting. Specifically:
(a) The act of putting one thing in the place of another, or of
changing the place of a thing; change; substitution.
My going to Oxford was not merely for shift of air. Sir H. Wotton.
(b) A turning from one thing to another; hence, an expedient tried in
difficalty; often, an evasion; a trick; a fraud. "Reduced to pitiable
shifts." Macaulay.
I 'll find a thousand shifts to get away. Shak.
Little souls on little shifts rely. Dryden.

2. Something frequently shifted; especially, a woman's under-garment;
a chemise.

3. The change of one set of workmen for another; hence, a spell, or
turn, of work; also, a set of workmen who work in turn with other
sets; as, a night shift.

4. In building, the extent, or arrangement, of the overlapping of
plank, brick, stones, etc., that are placed in courses so as to break
joints.

5. (Mining)

Defn: A breaking off and dislocation of a seam; a fault.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: A change of the position of the hand on the finger board, in
playing the violin. To make shift, to contrive or manage in an
exigency. "I shall make shift to go without him." Shak.
[They] made a shift to keep their own in Ireland. Milton.

SHIFTABLE
Shift"a*ble, a.

Defn: Admitting of being shifted.

SHIFTER
Shift"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, shifts; one who plays tricks or practices
artifice; a cozener.
'T was such a shifter that, if truth were known, Death was half glad
when he had got him down. Milton.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: An assistant to the ship's cook in washing, steeping, and
shifting the salt provisions.

3. (Mach.)
(a) An arrangement for shifting a belt sidewise from one pulley to
another.
(b) (Knitting Mach.) A wire for changing a loop from one needle to
another, as in narrowing, etc.

SHIFTINESS
Shift"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being shifty.
Diplomatic shiftiness and political versatility. J. A. Syminds.

SHIFTING
Shift"ing, a.

1. Changing in place, position, or direction; varying; variable;
fickle; as, shifting winds; shifting opinions or principles.

2. Adapted or used for shifting anything. Shifting backstays (Naut.),
temporary stays that have to be let go whenever the vessel tacks or
jibes.
 -- Shifting ballast, ballast which may be moved from one side of a
vessel to another as safety requires.
 -- Shifting center. See Metacenter.
 -- Shifting locomotive. See Switching engine, under Switch.

SHIFTINGLY
Shift"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a shifting manner.

SHIFTLESS
Shift"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of expedients, or not using successful expedients;
characterized by failure, especially by failure to provide for one's
own support, through negligence or incapacity; hence, lazy;
improvident; thriftless; as, a shiftless fellow; shiftless
management.
 -- Shift"less*ly, adv.
 -- Shift"less*ness, n.

SHIFTY
Shift"y, a.

Defn: Full of, or ready with, shifts; fertile in expedients or
contrivance. Wright.
Shifty and thrifty as old Greek or modern Scot, there were few things
he could not invent, and perhaps nothing he could not endure. C.
Kingsley.

SHIITE; SHIAH
Shi"ite, Shi"ah, n. Etym: [Ar. shi'aia follower of the sect of Ali,
fr. shi'at, shi'ah, a multitude following one another in pursuit of
the same object, the sect of Ali, fr. sha'a to follow.]

Defn: A member of that branch of the Mohammedans to which the
Persians belong. They reject the first three caliphs, and consider
Ali as being the first and only rightful successor of Mohammed. They
do not acknowledge the Sunna, or body of traditions respecting
Mohammed, as any part of the law, and on these accounts are treated
as heretics by the Sunnites, or orthodox Mohammedans.

SHIKAREE; SHIKARI
Shi*ka"ree, Shi*ka"ri n. Etym: [Hind.]

Defn: A sportsman; esp., a native hunter. [India]

SHILF
Shilf, n. Etym: [CF. G. shilf sedge.]

Defn: Straw. [Obs.]

SHILL
Shill, v. t.

Defn: To shell. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SHILL
Shill, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Sheal.]

Defn: To put under cover; to sheal. [Prov.ng.] Brockett.

SHILLALAH; SHILLELAH
Shil*la"lah, Shil*le"lah, n.

Defn: An oaken sapling or cudgel; any cudgel; -- so called from
Shillelagh, a place in Ireland of that name famous for its oaks.
[Irish] [Written also shillaly, and shillely.]

SHILLING
Shil"ling, n. Etym: [OE. shilling, schilling, AS. scilling; akin to
D. schelling, OS. & OHG. scilling, G. schilling, Sw. & Dan. skilling,
Icel. skillingr, Goth. skilliggs, and perh. to OHG. scellan to sound,
G. schallen.]

1. A silver coin, and money of account, of Great Britain and its
dependencies, equal to twelve pence, or the twentieth part of a
pound, equivalent to about twenty-four cents of the United States
currency.

2. In the United States, a denomination of money, differing in value
in different States. It is not now legally recognized.

Note: Many of the States while colonies had issued bills of credit
which had depreciated in different degrees in the different colonies.
Thus, in New England currency (used also in Virginia, Kentucky,
Tennessee, Indiana, Illinois, Missouri, Mississippi, Alabama, and
Florida), after the adoption of the decimal system, the pound in
paper money was worth only $3.333, and the shilling 16 Am. Cyc.

3. The Spanish real, of the value of one eight of a dollar, or 12
York shilling. Same as Shilling, 3.

SHILL-I-SHALL-I; SHILLY-SHALLY
Shill"-I-shall`-I, Shil"ly-shal`ly, adv. Etym: [A reduplication of
shall I.]

Defn: In an irresolute, undecided, or hesitating manner.
I am somewhat dainty in making a resolution, because when I make it,
I keep it; I don't stand shill-I-shall-I then; if I say 't, I'll do
't. Congreve.

SHILLY-SHALLY
Shil"ly-shal`ly, v. i.

Defn: To hesitate; to act in an irresolute manner; hence, to occupy
one's self with trifles.

SHILLY-SHALLY
Shil"ly-shal`ly, n.

Defn: Irresolution; hesitation; also, occupation with trifles.
She lost not one of her forty-five minutes in picking and choosing, -
- no shilly-shally in Kate. De Quincey.

SHILOH
Shi"loh (shi\'b6lo), n. Etym: [Heb. shiloh, literally, quiet, rest,
fr. shalah to rest.] (Script.)

Defn: A word used by Jacob on his deathbed, and interpreted
variously, as "the Messiah," or as the city "Shiloh," or as "Rest."

SHILY
Shi"ly, adv.

Defn: See Shyly.

SHIM
Shim, n.

1. A kind of shallow plow used in tillage to break the ground, and
clear it of weeds.

2. (Mach.)

Defn: A thin piece of metal placed between two parts to make a fit.

SHIMMER
Shim"mer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shimmered; p. pr. & vb. n. Shimmering.]
Etym: [OE. schimeren, AS. scimerian; akin to scimian, sciman, to
glitter, D. schemeren, G. schimmern, Dan. skimre, Sw. skimra, AS.
scima a light, brightness, Icel. skima, Goth. skeima a torch, a
lantern, and E. shine. sq. root157. See Shine, v. i.]

Defn: To shine with a tremulous or intermittent light; to shine
faintly; to gleam; to glisten; to glimmer.
The shimmering glimpses of a stream. Tennyson.

SHIMMER
Shim"mer, n.

Defn: A faint, tremulous light; a gleaming; a glimmer.
TWo silver lamps, fed with perfumed oil, diffused . . . a trembling
twilight-seeming shimmer through the quiet apartment. Sir W. Scott.

SHIMMERING
Shim"mer*ing, n.

Defn: A gleam or glimmering. "A little shimmering of a light."
Chaucer.

SHIMMY
Shim"my, n.

Defn: A chemise. [Colloq.]

SHIN
Shin, n. Etym: [OE. shine, schine, AS. scina; akin to D. scheen, OHG.
scina, G. schiene, schienbein, Dan. skinnebeen, Sw. skenben. Cf.
Chine.]

1. The front part of the leg below the knee; the front edge of the
shin bone; the lower part of the leg; the shank. "On his shin."
Chaucer.

2. (Railbroad)

Defn: A fish plate for rails. Knight. Shin bone (Anat.), the tibia.
 -- Shin leaf (Bot.), a perennial ericaceous herb (Pyrola elliptica)
with a cluster of radical leaves and a raceme of greenish white
flowers.

SHIN
Shin, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shinned; p. pr. & vb. n. Shinning.]

1. To climb a mast, tree, rope, or the like, by embracing it
alternately with the arms and legs, without help of steps, spurs, or
the like; -- used with up; as, to shin up a mast. [Slang]

2. To run about borrowing money hastily and temporarily, as for the
payment of one's notes at the bank. [Slang, U.S.] Bartlett.

SHIN
Shin, v. t.

Defn: To climb (a pole, etc.) by shinning up. [Slang]

SHINDLE
Shin"dle, n. Etym: [See 2d Shingle.]

Defn: A shingle; also, a slate for roofing. [Obs.] Holland.

SHINDLE
Shin"dle, v. t.

Defn: To cover or roof with shindles. [Obs.]

SHINDY
Shin"dy, n.; pl. Shindies. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain; cf. Shinney,
Shinty.]

1. An uproar or disturbance; a spree; a row; a riot. [Slang]
Thackeray.

2. Hockey; shinney. Bartlett.

3. A fancy or liking. [Local, U. S.] Bartlett.

SHINE
Shine, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shone ( (archaic Shined (); p. pr. & vb.
n. Shining.] Etym: [OE. shinen, schinen, AS. scinan; akin to D.
schijnen, OFries. skina, OS. & OHG. scinan, G. scheinen, Icel.skina,
Sw. skina, Dan. skinne, Goth. skeinan, and perh. to Gr. Sheer pure,
and Shimmer.]

1. To emit rays of light; to give light; to beam with steady
radiance; to exhibit brightness or splendor; as, the sun shines by
day; the moon shines by night.
Hyperion's quickening fire doth shine. Shak.
God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in
our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in
the face of Jesus Cghrist. 2 Cor. iv. 6.
Let thine eyes shine forth in their full luster. Denham.

2. To be bright by reflection of light; to gleam; to be glossy; as,
to shine like polished silver.

3. To be effulgent in splendor or beauty. "So proud she shined in her
princely state." Spenser.
Once brightest shined this child of heat and air. Pope.

4. To be eminent, conspicuous, or distinguished; to exhibit brilliant
intellectual powers; as, to shine in courts; to shine in
conversation.
Few are qualified to shine in company; but it in most men's power to
be agreeable. Swift.
To make, or cause, the face to shine upon, to be propitious to; to be
gracious to. Num. vi. 25.

SHINE
Shine, v. t.

1. To cause to shine, as a light. [Obs.]
He [God] doth not rain wealth, nor shine honor and virtues, upon men
equally. Bacon.

2. To make bright; to cause to shine by reflected light; as, in
hunting, to shine the eyes of a deer at night by throwing a light on
them. [U. S.] Bartlett.

SHINE
Shine, n.

1. The quality or state of shining; brightness; luster, gloss;
polish; sheen.
Now sits not girt with taper's holy shine. Milton.
Fair opening to some court's propitious shine. Pope.
The distant shine of the celestial city. Hawthorne.

2. Sunshine; fair weather.
Be it fair or foul, or rain or shine. Dryden.

3. A liking for a person; a fancy. [Slang, U.S.]

4. Caper; antic; row. [Slang] To cut up shines, to play pranks.
[Slang, U.S.]

SHINE
Shine, a. Etym: [AS. scin. See Shine, v. i.]

Defn: Shining; sheen. [Obs.] Spenser.

SHINER
Shin"er, n.

Defn: That which shines. Specifically:
(a) A luminary.
(b) A bright piece of money. [Slang]
Has she the shiners, d' ye think Foote.
black eye.
(c) (Zool.) Any one of numerous species of small freshwater American
cyprinoid fishes, belonging to Notropis, or Minnilus, and allied
genera; as the redfin (Notropis megalops), and the golden shiner
(Notemigonus chrysoleucus) of the Eastern United States; also loosely
applied to various other silvery fishes, as the dollar fish, or
horsefish, menhaden, moonfish, sailor's choice, and the sparada. (d)
(Zool.)

Defn: The common Lepisma, or furniture bug. Blunt-nosed shiner
(Zool.), the silver moonfish.

SHINESS
Shi"ness, n.

Defn: See Shyness.

SHINGLE
Shin"gle, n. Etym: [Prob. from Norw. singl, singling, coarse gravel,
small round stones.] (Geol.)

Defn: Round, water-worn, and loose gravel and pebbles, or a
collection of roundish stones, such as are common on the seashore and
elsewhere.

SHINGLE
Shin"gle, n. Etym: [OE. shingle, shindle, fr. L. scindula, scandula;
cf. scindere to cleave, to split, E. shed, v.t., Gr.

1. A piece of wood sawed or rived thin and small, with one end
thinner than the other, -- used in covering buildings, especially
roofs, the thick ends of one row overlapping the thin ends of the row
below.
I reached St. Asaph, . . . where there is a very poor cathedral
church covered with shingles or tiles. Ray.

2. A sign for an office or a shop; as, to hang out one's shingle.
[Jocose, U. S.] Shingle oak (Bot.), a kind of oak (Quercus
imbricaria) used in the Western States for making shingles.

SHINGLE
Shin"gle, v. t. [imp. &. p. p. Shingled; p. pr. & vb. n. Shingling.]

1. To cover with shingles; as, to shingle a roof.
They shingle their houses with it. Evelyn.

2. To cut, as hair, so that the ends are evenly exposed all over the
head, as shingles on a roof.

SHINGLE
Shin"gle, v. t.

Defn: To subject to the process of shindling, as a mass of iron from
the pudding furnace.

SHINGLER
Shin"gler, n.

1. One who shingles.

2. A machine for shingling puddled iron.

SHINGLES
Shin"gles, n. Etym: [OF. cengle a girth, F. sangle, fr. L. cingulum a
girdle, fr. cingere to gird. Cf. Cincture, Cingle, Surcingle.] (Med.)

Defn: A kind of herpes (Herpes zoster) which spreads half way around
the body like a girdle, and is usually attended with violent
neuralgic pain.

SHINGLING
Shin"gling, n.

1. The act of covering with shingles; shingles, collectively; a
covering made of shingles.

2. (Metal)

Defn: The process of expelling scori? and other impurities by
hammering and squeezing, in the production of wrought iron. Shingling
hammer, a ponderous hammer moved by machinery, used in shingling
puddled iron.
 -- Shingling mill, a mill or forge where puddled iron is shingled.

SHINGLY
Shin"gly, a.

Defn: Abounding with shingle, or gravel.

SHINHOPPLE
Shin"hop`ple, n.

Defn: The hobblebush.

SHINING
Shin"ing, a.

1. Emitting light, esp. in a continuous manner; radiant; as, shining
lamps; also, bright by the reflection of light; as, shining armor.
"Fish . . . with their fins and shining scales." Milton.

2. Splendid; illustrious; brilliant; distinguished; conspicious; as,
a shining example of charity.

3. Having the surface smooth and polished; -- said of leaves, the
surfaces of shells, etc.

Syn.
 -- Glistening; bright; radiant; resplendent; effulgent; lustrous;
brilliant; glittering; splendid; illustrious.
 -- Shining, Brilliant, Sparking. Shining describes the steady
emission of a strong light, or the steady reflection of light from a
clear or polished surface. Brilliant denotes a shining of great
brightness, but with gleams or flashes. Sparkling implies a fitful,
intense shining from radiant points or sparks, by which the eye is
dazzled. The same distinctions obtain when these epithets are
figuratively applied. A man of shining talents is made conspicious by
possessing them; if they flash upon the mind with a peculiarly
striking effect, we call them brilliant; if his brilliancy is marked
by great vivacity and occasional intensity, he is sparkling.
True paradise . . . inclosed with shining rock. Milton.
Some in a brilliant buckle bind her waist, Some round her neck a
circling light display. Gay.
His sparkling blade about his head he blest. Spenser.

SHINING
Shin"ing, n.

Defn: Emission or reflection of light.

SHININGNESS
Shin"ing*ness, n.

Defn: Brightness. J. Spence.

SHINNEY
Shin"ney, n. Etym: [CF. Shindy.]

Defn: The game of hockey; -- so called because of the liability of
the players to receive blows on the shin. Halliwell.

SHINPLASTER
Shin"plas`ter, n.

Defn: Formerly, a jocose term for a bank note greatly depreciated in
value; also, for paper money of a denomination less than a dollar.
[U. S.]

SHIN SHU
Shin Shu. [Jap., lit., true sect.]

Defn: The leading and most progressive Buddhist sect of Japan,
resting its faith rather upon Amida than Gautama Buddha. Rites and
ceremonies are held useless without uprightness.

SHINTIYAN; SHINTYAN
Shin"ti*yan (shin"ti*yan), Shin"ty*an (shin"ti*an), n. [Ar.
shintian.]

Defn: A kind of wide loose drawers or trousers worn by women in
Mohammedan countries.

SHINTO; SHINTIISM
Shin"to, Shin"ti*ism, n. Etym: [Chin. shin god + tao way, doctrine.]

Defn: One of the two great systems of religious belief in Japan. Its
essence is ancestor worship, and sacrifice to dead heroes. [Written
also Sintu, and Sintuism.]

SHINTOIST
Shin"to*ist, n.

Defn: An adherent of Shintoism.

SHINTY
Shin"ty, n. Etym: [Cf. Gael. sinteag a skip, a bound.]

Defn: A Scotch game resembling hockey; also, the club used in the
game. Jamieson.

SHINY
Shin"y, a. [Compar. Shinier; superl. Shiniest.]

Defn: Bright; luminous; clear; unclouded.
Like distant thunder on a shiny day. Dryden.

-SHIP
-ship. Etym: [OE. -schipe, AS. -scipe; akin to OFries. -skipe, OLG. -
skepi, D. -schap, OHG. -scaf, G. -schaft. Cf. Shape, n., and
Landscape.]

Defn: A suffix denoting state, office, dignity, profession, or art;
as in lordship, friendship, chancellorship, stewardship,
horsemanship.

SHIP
Ship, n. Etym: [AS. scipe.]

Defn: Pay; reward. [Obs.]
In withholding or abridging of the ship or the hire or the wages of
servants. Chaucer.

SHIP
Ship, n. Etym: [OE. ship, schip, AS. scip; akin to OFries. skip, OS.
scip, D. schip, G. schiff, OHG. scif, Dan. skib, Sw. skeep, Icel. &
Goth. skip; of unknown origin. Cf. Equip, Skiff, Skipper.]

1. Any large seagoing vessel.
Like a stately ship . . . With all her bravery on, and tackle trim,
Sails filled, and streamers waving. Milton.
Thou, too, sail on, O Ship of State! Longfellow.

2. Specifically, a vessel furnished with a bowsprit and three masts
(a mainmast, a foremast, and a mizzenmast), each of which is composed
of a lower mast, a topmast, and a topgallant mast, and square-rigged
on all masts. See Illustation in Appendix. l Port or Larboard Side; s
Starboard Side; 1 Roundhouse or Deck House; 2 Tiller; 3 Grating; 4
Wheel; 5 Wheel Chains; 6 Binnacle; 7 Mizzenmast; 8 Skylight; 9
Capstan; 10 Mainmast; 11 Pumps; 12 Galley or Caboose; 13 Main
Hatchway; 14 Windlass; 15 Foremast; 16 Fore Hatchway; 17 Bitts; 18
Bowsprit; 19 Head Rail; 20 Boomkins; 21 Catheads on Port Bow and
Starboard Bow; 22 Fore Chains; 23 Main Chains; 24 Mizzen Chains; 25
Stern. 1 Fore Royal Stay; 2 Flying Jib Stay; 3 Fore Topgallant Stay;4
Jib Stay; 5 Fore Topmast Stays; 6 Fore Tacks; 8 Flying Martingale; 9
Martingale Stay, shackled to Dolphin Striker; 10 Jib Guys; 11 Jumper
Guys; 12 Back Ropes; 13 Robstays; 14 Flying Jib Boom; 15 Flying Jib
Footropes; 16 Jib Boom; 17 Jib Foottropes; 18 Bowsprit; 19 Fore
Truck; 20 Fore Royal Mast; 21 Fore Royal Lift; 22 Fore Royal Yard; 23
Fore Royal Backstays; 24 Fore Royal Braces; 25 Fore Topgallant Mast
and Rigging; 26 Fore Topgallant Lift; 27 Fore Topgallant Yard; 28
Fore Topgallant Backstays; 29 Fore Topgallant Braces; 30 Fore Topmast
and Rigging; 31 Fore Topsail Lift; 32 Fore Topsail Yard; 33 Fore
Topsail Footropes; 34 Fore Topsail Braces; 35 Fore Yard; 36 Fore
Brace; 37 Fore Lift; 38 Fore Gaff; 39 Fore Trysail Vangs; 40 Fore
Topmast Studding-sail Boom; 41 Foremast and Rigging; 42 Fore Topmast
Backstays; 43 Fore Sheets; 44 Main Truck and Pennant; 45 Main Royal
Mast and Backstay; 46 Main Royal Stay; 47 Main Royal Lift; 48 Main
Royal Yard; 49 Main Royal Braces; 50 Main Topgallant Mast and
Rigging; 51 Main Topgallant Lift; 52 Main Topgallant Backstays; 53
Main Topgallant Yard; 54 Main Topgallant Stay; 55 Main Topgallant
Braces; 56 Main Topmast and Rigging; 57 Topsail Lift; 58 Topsail
Yard; 59 Topsail Footropes; 60 Topsail Braces; 61 Topmast Stays; 62
Main Topgallant Studding-sail Boom; 63 Main Topmast Backstay; 64 Main
Yard; 65 Main Footropes; 66 Mainmast and Rigging; 67 Main Lift; 68
Main Braces; 69 Main Tacks; 70 Main Sheets; 71 Main Trysail Gaff; 72
Main Trysail Vangs; 73 Main Stays; 74 Mizzen Truck; 75 Mizzen Royal
Mast and Rigging; 76 Mizzen Royal Stay; 77 Mizzen Royal Lift; 78
Mizzen Royal Yard; 79 Mizzen Royal Braces; 80 Mizzen Topgallant Mast
and Rigging; 81 Mizzen Topgallant Lift; 82 Mizzen Topgallant
Backstays; 83 Mizzen Topgallant Braces; 84 Mizzen Topgallant Yard; 85
Mizzen Topgallant Stay; 86 Mizzen Topmast and Rigging; 87 Mizzen
Topmast Stay; 88 Mizzen Topsail Lift; 89 Mizzen Topmast Backstays; 90
Mizzen Topsail Braces; 91 Mizzen Topsail Yard; 92 Mizzen Topsail
Footropes; 93 Crossjack Yard; 94 Crossjack Footropes; 95 Crossjack
Lift; 96 Crossjack Braces; 97 Mizzenmast and Rigging; 98 Mizzen Stay;
99 Spanker Gaff; 100 Peak Halyards; 101 Spanker Vangs; 102 Spanker
Boom; 103 Spanker Boom Topping Lift; 104 Jacob's Ladder, or Stern
Ladder; 105 Spanker Sheet; 106 Cutwater; 107 Starboard Bow; 108
Starboard Beam; 109 Water Line; 110 Starboard Quarter; 111 Rudder.

3. A dish or utensil (originally fashioned like the hull of a ship)
used to hold incense. [Obs.] Tyndale. Armed ship, a private ship
taken into the service of the government in time of war, and armed
and equipped like a ship of war. [Eng.] Brande & C.
 -- General ship. See under General.
 -- Ship biscuit, hard biscuit prepared for use on shipboard; --
called also ship bread. See Hardtack.
 -- Ship boy, a boy who serves in a ship. "Seal up the ship boy's
eyes." Shak.
 -- Ship breaker, one who breaks up vessels when unfit for further
use.
 -- Ship broker, a mercantile agent employed in buying and selling
ships, procuring cargoes, etc., and generally in transacting the
business of a ship or ships when in port.
 -- Ship canal, a canal suitable for the passage of seagoing vessels.
 -- Ship carpenter, a carpenter who works at shipbuilding; a
shipwright.
 -- Ship chandler, one who deals in cordage, canvas, and other,
furniture of vessels.
 -- Ship chandlery, the commodities in which a ship chandler deals;
also, the business of a ship chandler.
 -- Ship fever (Med.), a form of typhus fever; -- called also putrid,
jail, or hospital fever.
 -- Ship joiner, a joiner who works upon ships.
 -- Ship letter, a letter conveyed by a ship not a mail packet.
 -- Ship money (Eng. Hist.), an imposition formerly charged on the
ports, towns, cities, boroughs, and counties, of England, for
providing and furnishing certain ships for the king's service. The
attempt made by Charles I. to revive and enforce this tax was
resisted by John Hampden, and was one of the causes which led to the
death of Charles. It was finally abolished.
 -- Ship of the line. See under Line.
 -- Ship pendulum, a pendulum hung amidships to show the extent of
the rolling and pitching of a vessel.
 -- Ship railway. (a) An inclined railway with a cradelike car, by
means of which a ship may be drawn out of water, as for repairs. (b)
A railway arranged for the transportation of vessels overland between
two water courses or harbors.
 -- Ship's company, the crew of a ship or other vessel.
 -- Ship's days, the days allowed a vessel for loading or unloading.
 -- Ship's husband. See under Husband.
 -- Ship's papers (Mar. Law), papers with which a vessel is required
by law to be provided, and the production of which may be required on
certain occasions. Among these papers are the register, passport or
sea letter, charter party, bills of lading, invoice, log book, muster
roll, bill of health, etc. Bouvier. Kent.
 -- To make ship, to embark in a ship or other vessel.

SHIP
Ship, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Shipping.]

1. To put on board of a ship, or vessel of any kind, for
transportation; to send by water.
The timber was . . . shipped in the bay of Attalia, from whence it
was by sea transported to Pelusium. Knolles.

2. By extension, in commercial usage, to commit to any conveyance for
transportation to a distance; as, to ship freight by railroad.

3. Hence, to send away; to get rid of. [Colloq.]

4. To engage or secure for service on board of a ship; as, to ship
seamen.

5. To receive on board ship; as, to ship a sea.

6. To put in its place; as, to ship the tiller or rudder.

SHIP
Ship, v. i.

1. To engage to serve on board of a vessel; as, to ship on a man-of-
war.

2. To embark on a ship. Wyclif (Acts xxviii. 11)

SHIPBOARD
Ship"board`, n. Etym: [Ship + board. See Board, n., 8]

Defn: A ship's side; hence, by extension, a ship; -- found chiefly in
adverbial phrases; as, on shipboard; a shipboard.

SHIPBUILDER
Ship"build`er, n.

Defn: A person whose occupation is to construct ships and other
vessels; a naval architect; a shipwright.

SHIPBUILDING
Ship"build`ing, n.

Defn: Naval architecturel the art of constructing ships and other
vessels.

SHIPFUL
Ship"ful, n.; pl. Shipfuls (.

Defn: As much or as many as a ship will hold; enough to fill a ship.

SHIPHOLDER
Ship"hold`er, n.

Defn: A shipowner.

SHIPLESS
Ship"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of ships. Gray.

SHIPLET
Ship"let, n.

Defn: A little ship. [R.] Holinshed.

SHIPLOAD
Ship"load`, n.

Defn: The load, or cargo, of a ship.

SHIPMAN
Ship"man, n.; pl. Shipmen (.

Defn: A seaman, or sailor. [Obs. or Poetic] Chaucer. R. Browning.
About midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some
country. Acts xxvii. 27.
Shipman's card, the mariner's compass. [Obs.] Shak.

SHIPMASTER
Ship"mas`ter, n.

Defn: The captain, master, or commander of a ship. Jonah i. 6.

SHIPMATE
Ship"mate`, n.

Defn: One who serves on board of the same ship with another; a fellow
sailor.

SHIPMENT
Ship"ment, n.

1. The act or process of shipping; as, he was engaged in the shipment
of coal for London; an active shipment of wheat from the West.

2. That which is shipped.
The question is, whether the share of M. in the shipment is exempted
from condemnation by reason of his neutral domicle. Story.

SHIPOWNER
Ship"own`er, n.

Defn: Owner of a ship or ships.

SHIPPEN
Ship"pen, n. Etym: [AS. scypen. Cf. Shop, Shepen.]

Defn: A stable; a cowhouse. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.]

SHIPPER
Ship"per, n. Etym: [See Ship, n., and cf. Skipper.]

Defn: One who sends goods from one place to another not in the same
city or town, esp. one who sends goods by water.

SHIPPING
Ship"ping, a.

1. Relating to ships, their ownership, transfer, or employment; as,
shiping concerns.

2. Relating to, or concerned in, the forwarding of goods; as, a
shipping clerk.

SHIPPING
Ship"ping, n.

1. The act of one who, or of that which, ships; as, the shipping of
flour to Liverpool.

2. The collective body of ships in one place, or belonging to one
port, country, etc.; vessels, generally; tonnage.

3. Navigation. "God send 'em good shipping." Shak. Shipping articles,
articles of agreement between the captain of a vessel and the seamen
on board, in respect to the amount of wages, length of time for which
they are shipping, etc. Bouvier.
 -- To take shipping, to embark; to take ship. [Obs.] John vi.24.
Shak.

SHIPPING NOTE
Ship"ping note. (Com.)

Defn: A document used in shipping goods by sea. In the case of free
goods the shipping notes are the receiving note, addressed by the
shipper to the chief officer of the vessel, requesting him to receive
on board specified goods, and a receipt for the mate to sign, on
receiving whose signature it is called the mate's receipt, and is
surrendered by the shipper for the bills of lading.

SHIPPO
Ship*po", n. [Jap. shippo seven precious things; Chin. ts'ih seven +
pao gem.] (Japanese Art)

Defn: Cloisonne enamel on a background of metal or porcelain.

SHIPPON
Ship"pon, n.

Defn: A cowhouse; a shippen. [Prov. Eng.]
Bessy would either do fieldwork, or attend to the cows, the shippon,
or churn, or make cheese. Dickens.

SHIP RAILWAY
Ship railway.
 (a) An inclined railway running into the water with a cradelike car
on which a vessel may be drawn out on land, as for repairs.
 (b) A railway on which to transport vessels overland between bodies
of water.

SHIP-RIGGED
Ship"-rigged`, a. (Naut.)

Defn: Rigged like a ship, that is, having three masts, each with
square sails.

SHIPSHAPE
Ship"shape`, a.

Defn: Arranged in a manner befitting a ship; hence, trim; tidy;
orderly.
Even then she expressed her scorn for the lubbery executioner's mode
of tying a knot, and did it herself in a shipshape orthodox manner.
De Quincey.
Keep everything shipshape, for I must go Tennyson.

SHIPSHAPE
Ship"shape`, adv.

Defn: In a shipshape or seamanlike manner.

SHIPWORM
Ship"worm`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any long, slender, worm-shaped bivalve mollusk of Teredo and
allied genera. The shipworms burrow in wood, and are destructive to
wooden ships, piles of wharves, etc. See Teredo.

SHIPWRECK
Ship"wreck`, n.

1. The breaking in pieces, or shattering, of a ship or other vessel
by being cast ashore or driven against rocks, shoals, etc., by the
violence of the winds and waves.

2. A ship wrecked or destroyed upon the water, or the parts of such a
ship; wreckage. Dryden.

3. Fig.: Destruction; ruin; irretrievable loss.
Holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away
concerning faith have made shipwreck. 1 Tim. 1. 19.
It was upon an Indian bill that the late ministry had made shipwreck.
J. Morley.

SHIPWRECK
Ship"wreck`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shipwrecked; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shipwrecking.]

1. To destroy, as a ship at sea, by running ashore or on rocks or
sandbanks, or by the force of wind and waves in a tempest.
Shipwrecking storms and direful thunders break. Shak.

2. To cause to experience shipwreck, as sailors or passengers. Hence,
to cause to suffer some disaster or loss; to destroy or ruin, as if
by shipwreck; to wreck; as, to shipwreck a business. Addison.

SHIPWRIGHT
Ship"wright`, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to construct ships; a builder of ships
or other vessels.

SHIPYARD
Ship"yard`, n.

Defn: A yard, place, or inclosure where ships are built or repaired.

SHIRAZ
Shi*raz", n.

Defn: A kind of Persian wine; -- so called from the place whence it
is brought.

SHIRE
Shire, n. Etym: [AS. scire, scir, a division, province, county. Cf.
Sheriff.]

1. A portion of Great Britain originally under the supervision of an
earl; a territorial division, usually identical with a county, but
sometimes limited to a smaller district; as, Wiltshire, Yorkshire,
Richmondshire, Hallamshire.
An indefinite number of these hundreds make up a county or shire.
Blackstone.

2. A division of a State, embracing several contiguous townships; a
county. [U. S.]

Note: Shire is commonly added to the specific designation of a county
as a part of its name; as, Yorkshire instead of York shire, or the
shire of York; Berkshire instead of Berks shire. Such expressions as
the county of Yorkshire, which in a strict sense are tautological,
are used in England. In the United States the composite word is
sometimes the only name of a county; as, Berkshire county, as it is
called in Massachusetts, instead of Berks county, as in Pensylvania.
The Tyne, Tees, Humber, Wash, Yare, Stour, and Thames separate the
counties of Northumberland, Durham, Yorkshire, Lincolnshire, etc.
Encyc. Brit.
Knight of the shire. See under Knight.
 -- Shire clerk, an officer of a county court; also, an under
sheriff. [Eng.] -- Shire mote (Old. Eng. Law), the county court;
sheriff's turn, or court. [Obs.] Cowell. Blackstone.
 -- Shire reeve (Old Eng. Law), the reeve, or bailiff, of a shire; a
sheriff. Burrill.
 -- Shire town, the capital town of a county; a county town.
 -- Shire wick, a county; a shire. [Obs.] Holland.

SHIRE HORSE
Shire horse.

Defn: One of an English breed of heavy draft horses believed to be
descended largely from the horses used in war in the days of heavy
armor. They are the  largest of the British draft breeds, and have
long hair on the back of the cannons and fetlocks. Brown or bay with
white on the face and legs is now the commonest color.

SHIRK
Shirk, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shirked; p. pr. & vb. n. Shirking.] Etym:
[Probably the same word as shark. See Shark, v. t.]

1. To procure by petty fraud and trickery; to obtain by mean
solicitation.
You that never heard the call of any vocation, . . . that shirk
living from others, but time from Yourselves. Bp. Rainbow.

2. To avoid; to escape; to neglect; -- implying unfaithfulness or
fraud; as, to shirk duty.
The usual makeshift by which they try to shirk difficulties. Hare.

SHIRK
Shirk, v. i.

1. To live by shifts and fraud; to shark.

2. To evade an obligation; to avoid the performance of duty, as by
running away.
One of the cities shirked from the league. Byron.

SHIRK
Shirk, n.

Defn: One who lives by shifts and tricks; one who avoids the
performance of duty or labor.

SHIRKER
Shirk"er, n.

Defn: One who shirks. Macaulay.

SHIRKY
Shirk"y, a.

Defn: Disposed to shirk. [Colloq.]

SHIRL
Shirl, a.

Defn: Shrill. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SHIRL
Shirl, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Schorl.

SHIRLEY
Shir"ley, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The bullfinch.

SHIRR
Shirr, n. (Sewing)

Defn: A series of close parallel runnings which are drawn up so as to
make the material between them set full by gatherings; -- called also
shirring, and gauging.

SHIRRED
Shirred, a.

1. (Sewing)

Defn: Made or gathered into a shirr; as, a shirred bonnet.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: Broken into an earthen dish and baked over the fire; -- said of
eggs.

SHIRT
Shirt, n. Etym: [OE. schirte, sherte, schurte; akin to Icel. skyrta,
Dan. skiorte, Sw. skjorta, Dan. skiort a petticoat, D. schort a
petticoat, an argon, G. schurz, schurze, an argon; all probably from
the root of E. short, as being originally a short garment. See Short,
and cf. Skirt.]

Defn: A loose under-garment for the upper part of the body, made of
cotton, linen, or other material; -- formerly used of the under-
garment of either sex, now commonly restricted to that worn by men
and boys.
Several persons in December had nothing over their shoulders but
their shirts. Addison.
She had her shirts and girdles of hair. Bp. Fisher.

SHIRT
Shirt, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Shirted; p. pr. & vb. n. Shirting.]

Defn: To cover or clothe with a shirt, or as with a shirt. Dryden.

SHIRTING
Shirt"ing, n.

Defn: Cloth, specifically cotton cloth, suitable for making shirts.

SHIRTLESS
Shirt"less, a.

Defn: Not having or wearing a shirt. Pope.
 -- Shirt"less*ness, n.

SHIRT WAIST
Shirt waist.

Defn: A belted waist resembling a shirt in plainness of cut and
style, worn by women or children; -- in England called a blouse.

SHIRT-WAIST SUIT
Shirt-waist suit.

Defn: A costume consisting of a plain belted waist and skirt of the
same material.

SHIST; SHISTOSE
Shist, Shis*tose".

Defn: See Shist, Schistose.

SHITTAH; SHITTAH TREE
Shit"tah, Shit"tah tree`, n. Etym: [Heb. shittah, pl. shittim.]

Defn: A tree that furnished the precious wood of which the ark,
tables, altars, boards, etc., of the Jewish tabernacle were made; --
now believed to have been the wood of the Acacia Seyal, which is
hard, fine grained, and yellowish brown in color.

SHITTIM; SHITTIM WOOD
Shit"tim, Shit"tim wood`, n.

Defn: The wood of the shittah tree.

SHITTLE
Shit"tle, n. Etym: [See Shuttle.]

Defn: A shuttle. [Obs.] Chapman.

SHITTLE
Shit"tle, a.

Defn: Wavering; unsettled; inconstant. [Obs.] Holland.

SHITTLECOCK
Shit"tle*cock`, n.

Defn: A shuttlecock. [Obs.]

SHITTLENESS
Shit"tle*ness, n.

Defn: Instability; inconstancy. [Obs.]
The vain shittlenesse of an unconstant head. Baret.

SHIVE
Shive, n. Etym: [See Sheave, n.]

1. A slice; as, a shive of bread. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Shak.

2. A thin piece or fragment; specifically, one of the scales or
pieces of the woody part of flax removed by the operation of
breaking.

3. A thin, flat cork used for stopping a wide-mouthed bottle; also, a
thin wooden bung for casks.

SHIVER
Shiv"er, n. Etym: [OE. schivere, fr. shive; cf. G. schifer a
splinter, slate, OHG. scivere a splinter, Dan. & Sw. skifer a slate.
See Shive, and cf. Skever.]

1. One of the small pieces, or splinters, into which a brittle thing
is broken by sudden violence; -- generally used in the plural. "All
to shivers dashed." Milton.

2. A thin slice; a shive. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] "A shiver of their own
loaf." Fuller.
Of your soft bread, not but a shiver. Chaucer.

3. (Geol.)

Defn: A variety of blue slate.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A sheave or small wheel in a pulley.

5. A small wedge, as for fastening the bolt of a window shutter.

6. A spindle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SHIVER
Shiv"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shivered; p. pr. & vb. n. Shivering.]
Etym: [OE. schiveren, scheveren; cf. OD. scheveren. See Shiver a
fragment.]

Defn: To break into many small pieces, or splinters; to shatter; to
dash to pieces by a blow; as, to shiver a glass goblet.
All the ground With shivered armor strown. Milton.

SHIVER
Shiv"er, v. i.

Defn: To separate suddenly into many small pieces or parts; to be
shattered.
There shiver shafts upon shields thick. Chaucer
The natural world, should gravity once cease, . . . would instantly
shiver into millions of atoms. Woodward.

SHIVER
Shiv"er, v. i. Etym: [OE. chiveren, cheveren; of uncertain origin.
This word seems to have been confused with shiver to shatter.]

Defn: To tremble; to vibrate; to quiver; to shake, as from cold or
fear.
Prometheus is laid On icy Caucasus to shiver. Swift.
The man that shivered on the brink of sin, Thus steeled and hardened,
ventures boldly in. Creech.

SHIVER
Shiv"er, v. t. (Naut.)

Defn: To cause to shake or tremble, as a sail, by steering close to
the wind.

SHIVER
Shiv"er, n.

Defn: The act of shivering or trembling.

SHIVERINGLY
Shiv"er*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a shivering manner.

SHIVER-SPAR
Shiv"er-spar`, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schiefer-spath.] (Min.)

Defn: A variety of calcite, so called from its slaty structure; --
called also slate spar.

SHIVERY
Shiv"er*y, a.

1. Tremulous; shivering. Mallet.

2. Easily broken; brittle; shattery.

SHIZOKU
Shi*zo"ku, n. sing. & pl. [Jap. shi-zoku, fr. Chin. ch' (chi) branch,
posterity + tsu kindered, class.]

Defn: The Japanese warrior gentry or middle class, formerly called
samurai; also, any member of this class.

SHOAD
Shoad, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schutt rubbish.] (Mining)

Defn: A train of vein material mixed with rubbish; fragments of ore
which have become separated by the action of water or the weather,
and serve to direct in the discovery of mines. [Written also shode.]

SHOADING
Shoad"ing, n. (Mining)

Defn: The tracing of veins of metal by shoads. [Written also
shoding.] Pryce.

SHOAL
Shoal, n. Etym: [AS. scolu, sceolu, a company, multitude, crowd, akin
to OS. skola; probably originally, a division, and akin to Icel.
skilja to part, divide. See Skill, and cf. School. of fishes.]

Defn: A great multitude assembled; a crowd; a throng; -- said
especially of fish; as, a shoal of bass. "Great shoals of people."
Bacon.
Beneath, a shoal of silver fishes glides. Waller.

SHOAL
Shoal, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shoaled; p. pr. & vb. n. Shoaling.]

Defn: To assemble in a multitude; to throng; as, the fishes shoaled
about the place. Chapman.

SHOAL
Shoal, a. Etym: [Cf. Shallow; or cf. G. scholle a clod, glebe, OHG.
scollo, scolla, prob. akin to E. shoal a multitude.]

Defn: Having little depth; shallow; as, shoal water.

SHOAL
Shoal, n.

1. A place where the water of a sea, lake, river, pond, etc., is
shallow; a shallow.
The depth of your pond should be six feet; and on the sides some
shoals for the fish to lay their span. Mortimer.
Wolsey, that once trod the ways of glory, And sounded all the depths
and shoals of honor. Shak.

2. A sandbank or bar which makes the water shoal.
The god himself with ready trident stands, And opes the deep, and
spreads the moving sands, Then heaves them off the shoals. Dryden.

SHOAL
Shoal, v. i.

Defn: To become shallow; as, the color of the water shows where it
shoals.

SHOAL
Shoal, v. t.

Defn: To cause to become more shallow; to come to a more shallow part
of; as, a ship shoals her water by advancing into that which is less
deep. Marryat.

SHOALINESS
Shoal"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being shoaly; little depth of water;
shallowness.

SHOALING
Shoal"ing, a.

Defn: Becoming shallow gradually. "A shoaling estuary." Lyell.

SHOALY
Shoal"y, a.

Defn: Full of shoals, or shallow places.
The tossing vessel sailed on shoaly ground. Dryden.

SHOAR
Shoar (shor), n.

Defn: A prop. See 3d Shore.

SHOAT
Shoat (shot), n.

Defn: A young hog. Same as Shote.

SHOCK
Shock, n. Etym: [OE. schokke; cf. OD schocke, G. schock a heap,
quantity, threescore, MHG. schoc, Sw. skok, and also G. hocke a heap
of hay, Lith. kugis.]

1. A pile or assemblage of sheaves of grain, as wheat, rye, or the
like, set up in a field, the sheaves varying in number from twelve to
sixteen; a stook.
And cause it on shocks to be by and by set. Tusser.
Behind the master walks, builds up the shocks. Thomson.

2. Etym: [G. schock.] (Com.)

Defn: A lot consisting of sixty pieces; -- a term applied in some
Baltic ports to loose goods.

SHOCK
Shock, v. t.

Defn: To collect, or make up, into a shock or shocks; to stook; as,
to shock rye.

SHOCK
Shock, v. i.

Defn: To be occupied with making shocks.
Reap well, scatter not, gather clean that is shorn, Bind fast, shock
apace. Tusser.

SHOCK
Shock, n. Etym: [Cf. D. schok a bounce, jolt, or leap, OHG. scoc a
swing, MHG. schoc, Icel. skykkjun tremuously, F. choc a shock,
collision, a dashing or striking against, Sp. choque, It. ciocco a
log. sq. root161. Cf. Shock to shake.]

1. A quivering or shaking which is the effect of a blow, collision,
or violent impulse; a blow, impact, or collision; a concussion; a
sudden violent impulse or onset.
These strong, unshaken mounds resist the shocks Of tides and seas
tempestuous. Blackmore.
He stood the shock of a whole host of foes. Addison.

2. A sudden agitation of the mind or feelings; a sensation of
pleasure or pain caused by something unexpected or overpowering;
also, a sudden agitating or overpowering event. "A shock of
pleasure." Talfourd.

3. (Med.)

Defn: A sudden depression of the vital forces of the entire body, or
of a port of it, marking some profound impression produced upon the
nervous system, as by severe injury, overpowering emotion, or the
like.

4. (Elec.)

Defn: The sudden convulsion or contraction of the muscles, with the
feeling of a concussion, caused by the discharge, through the animal
system, of electricity from a charged body.

Syn.
 -- Concussion, Shock. Both words signify a sudden violent shaking
caused by impact or colision; but concussion is restricted in use to
matter, while shock is used also of mental states.

SHOCK
Shock, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shocked; p. pr. & vb. n. Shocking.] Etym:
[OE. schokken; cf. D. schokken, F. choquer, Sp. chocar. sq. root161.
Cf. Chuck to strike, Jog, Shake, Shock a striking, Shog, n. & v.]

1. To give a shock to; to cause to shake or waver; hence, to strike
against suddenly; to encounter with violence.
Come the three corners of the world in arms, And we shall shock them.
Shak.
A shall never forget the force with which he shocked De Vipont. Sir
W. Scott.

2. To strike with surprise, terror, horror, or disgust; to cause to
recoil; as, his violence shocked his associates.
Advise him not to shock a father's will. Dryden.

SHOCK
Shock, v. i.

Defn: To meet with a shock; to meet in violent encounter. "They saw
the moment approach when the two parties would shock together." De
Quincey.

SHOCK
Shock, n. Etym: [Cf. Shag.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A dog with long hair or shag; -- called also shockdog.

2. A thick mass of bushy hair; as, a head covered with a shock of
sandy hair.

SHOCK
Shock, a.

Defn: Bushy; shaggy; as, a shock hair.
His red shock peruke . . . was laid aside. Sir W. Scott.

SHOCKDOG
Shock"dog`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See 7th Shock, 1.

SHOCK-HEAD
Shock"-head`, a.

Defn: Shock-headed. Tennyson.

SHOCK-HEADED
Shock"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Having a thick and bushy head of hair.

SHOCKING
Shock"ing, a.

Defn: Causing to shake or tremble, as by a blow; especially, causing
to recoil with horror or disgust; extremely offensive or disgusting.
The grossest and most shocking villainies. Secker.
-- Shock"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Shock"ing*ness, n.

SHOD
Shod, imp. & p. p.

Defn: f Shoe.

SHODDY
Shod"dy, n. Etym: [Perhaps fr. Shed, v. t.; as meaning originally,
waste stuff shedor thrown off.]

1. A fibrous material obtained by "deviling," or tearing into fibers,
refuse woolen goods, old stockings, rags, druggets, etc. See Mungo.

2. A fabric of inferior quality made of, or containing a large amount
of, shoddy.

Note: The great quantity of shoddy goods furnished as army supplies
in the late Civil War in the United States gave wide currency to the
word, and it came to be applied to persons who pretend to a higher
position in society than that to which their breeding or worth
entitles them.

SHODDY
Shod"dy, a.

Defn: Made wholly or in part of shoddy; containing shoddy; as, shoddy
cloth; shoddy blankets; hence, colloquially, not genuine; sham;
pretentious; as, shoddy aristocracy.
Shoddy inventions designed to bolster up a factitious pride. Compton
Reade.

SHODDY FEVER
Shoddy fever. (Med.)

Defn: A febrile disease characterized by dyspnoa and bronchitis
caused by inhaling dust.

SHODDYISM
Shod"dy*ism, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being shoddy. [Colloq.] See the Note
under Shoddy, n.

SHODE
Shode, n. Etym: [AS. scade, fr. sceadan. See Shed, v. t.]

1. The parting of the hair on the head. [Obs.]
Full straight and even lay his jolly shode. Chaucer.

2. The top of the head; the head. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SHODE; SHODING
Shode, Shod"ing.

Defn: See Shoad, Shoading.

SHODER
Sho"der, n.

Defn: A package of gold beater's skins in which gold is subjected to
the second process of beating.

SHOE
Shoe, n.; pl. Shoes, formerly Shoon, now provincial. Etym: [OE. sho,
scho, AS. sc, sceoh; akin to OFries. sk, OS. sk, D. schoe, schoen, G.
schuh, OHG. scuoh, Icel. sk, Dan. & Sw. sko, Goth. sk; of unknown
origin.]

1. A covering for the human foot, usually made of leather, having a
thick and somewhat stiff sole and a lighter top. It differs from a
boot on not extending so far up the leg.
Your hose should be ungartered, . . . yourshoe untied. Shak.
Spare none but such as go in clouted shoon. Shak.

2. Anything resembling a shoe in form, position, or use.
Specifically:
(a) A plate or rim of iron nailed to the hoof of an animal to defend
it from injury.
(b) A band of iron or steel, or a ship of wood, fastened to the
bottom of the runner of a sleigh, or any vehicle which slides on the
snow.
(c) A drag, or sliding piece of wood or iron, placed under the wheel
of a loaded vehicle, to retard its motion in going down a hill.
(d) The part of a railroad car brake which presses upon the wheel to
retard its motion.
(e) (Arch.) A trough-shaped or spout-shaped member, put at the bottom
of the water leader coming from the eaves gutter, so as to throw the
water off from the building.
(f) (Milling.) The trough or spout for conveying the grain from the
hopper to the eye of the millstone.
(g) An inclined trough in an ore-crushing mill.
(h) An iron socket or plate to take the thrust of a strut or rafter.
(i) An iron socket to protect the point of a wooden pile.
(j) (Mach.) A plate, or notched piece, interposed between a moving
part and the stationary part on which it bears, to take the wear and
afford means of adjustment; -- called also slipper, and gib.

Note: Shoe is often used adjectively, or in composition; as, shoe
buckle, or shoe-buckle; shoe latchet, or shoe-latchet; shoe leathet,
or shoe-leather; shoe string, shoe-string, or shoestring. Shoe of an
anchor. (Naut.) (a) A small block of wood, convex on the back, with a
hole to receive the point of the anchor fluke, -- used to prevent the
anchor from tearing the planks of the vessel when raised or lowered.
(b) A broad, triangular piece of plank placed upon the fluke to give
it a better hold in soft ground.
 -- Shoe block (Naut.), a block with two sheaves, one above the
other, and at right angles to each other.
 -- Shoe bolt, a bolt with a flaring head, for fastening shoes on
sleigh runners.
 -- Shoe pac, a kind of moccasin. See Pac.
 -- Shoe stone, a sharpening stone used by shoemakers and other
workers in leather.

SHOE
Shoe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shod; p. pr. & vb. n. Shoeing.] Etym: [AS.
sc, sce. See Shoe, n.]

1. To furnish with a shoe or shoes; to put a shoe or shoes on; as, to
shoe a horse, a sled, an anchor.

2. To protect or ornament with something which serves the purpose of
a shoe; to tip.
The sharp and small end of the billiard stick, which is shod with
brass or silver. Evelyn.

SHOEBILL
Shoe"bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A large African wading bird (Bal?niceps rex) allied to the
storks and herons, and remarkable for its enormous broad swollen
bill. It inhabits the valley of the White Nile. See Illust. (l.) of
Beak.

SHOEBLACK
Shoe"black`, n.

Defn: One who polishes shoes.

SHOEFLY
Shoe"fly`, n.

1. (Railroading) A contrivance for throwing the track temporarily to
one side for  convenience in filling washouts or effecting other
repairs. [Cant, U. S.]

2.  (Print.) In some cylinder presses, a device with long fingers for
freeing the sheet from the cylinder.

SHOEHORN; SHOEING-HORN
Shoe"horn`, Shoe"ing-horn`, n.

1. A curved piece of polished horn, wood, or metal used to facilitate
the entrance of the foot into a shoe.

2. Figuratively:
(a) Anything by which a transaction is facilitated; a medium; -- by
way of contempt. Spectator.
(b) Anything which draws on or allures; an inducement. [Low] Beau &
Fl.

SHOELESS
Shoe"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of shoes. Addison.

SHOEMAKER
Shoe"mak`er, n.

1. One whose occupation it is to make shoes and boots.

2. (Zool.)
(a) The threadfish.
(b) The runner, 12.

SHOEMAKING
Shoe"mak`ing, n.

Defn: The business of a shoemaker.

SHOER
Sho"er, n.

Defn: One who fits shoes to the feet; one who furnishes or puts on
shoes; as, a shoer of horses.

SHOG
Shog, n. Etym: [See Shock a striking.]

Defn: A shock; a jog; a violent concussion or impulse. [R. or Scot.]

SHOG
Shog, v. t.

Defn: To shake; to shock. [R. or Scot.]

SHOG
Shog, v. i. Etym: [Cf. W. ysgogi to wag, to stir. Cf. Jog.]

Defn: To jog; to move on. [R. or Scot.] Beau & Fl.

SHOGGLE
Shog"gle, v. t. Etym: [See Shog, Joggle.]

Defn: To joggle. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Pegge.

SHOGUN
Sho"gun, n. Etym: [Chin. tsiang kiUn commander in chief.]

Defn: A title originally conferred by the Mikado on the military
governor of the eastern provinces of Japan. By gradual usurpation of
power the Shoguns (known to foreigners as Tycoons) became finally the
virtual rulers of Japan. The title was abolished in 1867. [Written
variously, Shiogun, Shiogoon, etc.]

SHOGUNATE
Sho*gun"ate, n.

Defn: The office or dignity of a Shogun. [Written also Siogoonate.]

SHOLA
Sho"la, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sola.

SHOLE
Shole, n.

Defn: A plank fixed beneath an object, as beneath the rudder of a
vessel, to protect it from injury; a plank on the ground under the
end of a shore or the like.

SHOLE
Shole, n.

Defn: See Shoal. [Obs.]

SHONDE
Shonde, n. Etym: [AS. sceond. Cf. Shend.]

Defn: Harm; disgrace; shame. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SHONE
Shone,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Shine.

SHOO
Shoo, interj. Etym: [Cf. G. scheuchen to scare, drive away.]

Defn: Begone; away; -- an expression used in frightening away
animals, especially fowls.

SHOOI
Sho"oi, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The Richardson's skua (Stercorarius parasiticus);- so called
from its cry. [Prov. Eng.]

SHOOK
Shook,

Defn: imp. & obs. or poet. p. p. of Shake.

SHOOK
Shook, n. Etym: [Cf. Shock a bundle of sheaves.] (Com.)
(a) A set of staves and headings sufficient in number for one
hogshead, cask, barrel, or the like, trimmed, and bound together in
compact form.
(b) A set of boards for a sugar box.
(c) The parts of a piece of house furniture, as a bedstead, packed
together.

SHOOK
Shook, v. t.

Defn: To pack, as staves, in a shook.

SHOON
Shoon, n.,

Defn: pl. of Shoe. [Archaic] Chaucer.
They shook the snow from hats and shoon. Emerson.

SHOOP
Shoop, obs.

Defn: imp. of Shape. Shaped. Chaucer.

SHOOT
Shoot, n. Etym: [F. chute. See Chute. Confused with shoot to let
fly.]

Defn: An inclined plane, either artificial or natural, down which
timber, coal, etc., are caused to slide; also, a narrow passage,
either natural or artificial, in a stream, where the water rushes
rapidly; esp., a channel, having a swift current, connecting the ends
of a bend in the stream, so as to shorten the course. [Written also
chute, and shute.] [U. S.] To take a shoot, to pass through a shoot
instead of the main channel; to take the most direct course. [U.S.]

SHOOT
Shoot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shot; p. pr. & vb. n. Shooting. The old
participle Shotten is obsolete. See Shotten.] Etym: [OE. shotien,
schotien, AS. scotian, v. i., sceotan; akin to D. schieten, G. schie,
OHG. sciozan, Icel. skj, Sw. skjuta, Dan. skyde; cf. Skr. skund to
jump. sq. root159. Cf. Scot a contribution, Scout to reject, Scud,
Scuttle, v. i., Shot, Sheet, Shut, Shuttle, Skittish, Skittles.]

1. To let fly, or cause to be driven, with force, as an arrow or a
bullet; -- followed by a word denoting the missile, as an object.
If you please To shoot an arrow that self way. Shak.

2. To discharge, causing a missile to be driven forth; -- followed by
a word denoting the weapon or instrument, as an object; -- often with
off; as, to shoot a gun.
The two ends od a bow, shot off, fly from one another. Boyle.

3. To strike with anything shot; to hit with a missile; often, to
kill or wound with a firearm; -- followed by a word denoting the
person or thing hit, as an object.
When Roger shot the hawk hovering over his master's dove house. A.
Tucker.

4. To send out or forth, especially with a rapid or sudden motion; to
cast with the hand; to hurl; to discharge; to emit.
An honest weaver as ever shot shuttle. Beau & Fl.
A pit into which the dead carts had nightly shot corpses by scores.
Macaulay.

5. To push or thrust forward; to project; to protrude; -- often with
out; as, a plant shoots out a bud.
They shoot out the lip, they shake the head. Ps. xxii. 7.
Beware the secret snake that shoots a sting. Dryden.

6. (Carp.)

Defn: To plane straight; to fit by planing.
Two pieces of wood that are shot, that is, planed or else pared with
a paring chisel. Moxon.

7. To pass rapidly through, over, or under; as, to shoot a rapid or a
bridge; to shoot a sand bar.
She . . . shoots the Stygian sound. Dryden.

8. To variegate as if by sprinkling or intermingling; to color in
spots or patches.
The tangled water courses slept, Shot over with purple, and green,
and yellow. Tennyson.
To be shot of, to be discharged, cleared, or rid of. [Colloq.] "Are
you not glad to be shot of him" Sir W. Scott.

SHOOT
Shoot, v. i.

1. To cause an engine or weapon to discharge a missile; -- said of a
person or an agent; as, they shot at a target; he shoots better than
he rides.
The archers have . . . shot at him. Gen. xlix. 23.

2. To discharge a missile; -- said of an engine or instrument; as,
the gun shoots well.

3. To be shot or propelled forcibly; -- said of a missile; to be
emitted or driven; to move or extend swiftly, as if propelled; as, a
shooting star.
There shot a streaming lamp along the sky. Dryden.

4. To penetrate, as a missile; to dart with a piercing sensation; as,
shooting pains.
Thy words shoot through my heart. Addison.

5. To feel a quick, darting pain; to throb in pain.
These preachers make His head to shoot and ache. Herbert.

6. To germinate; to bud; to sprout.
Onions, as they hang, will shoot forth. Bacon.
But the wild olive shoots, and shades the ungrateful plain. Dryden.

7. To grow; to advance; as, to shoot up rapidly.
Well shot in years he seemed. Spenser.
Delightful task! to rear the tender thought, To teach the young idea
how to shoot. Thomson.

8. To change form suddenly; especially, to solidify.
If the menstruum be overcharged, metals will shoot into crystals.
Bacon.

9. To protrude; to jut; to project; to extend; as, the land shoots
into a promontory.
There shot up against the dark sky, tall, gaunt, straggling houses.
Dickens.

10. (Naut.)

Defn: To move ahead by force of momentum, as a sailing vessel when
the helm is put hard alee. To shoot ahead, to pass or move quickly
forward; to outstrip others.

SHOOT
Shoot, n.

1. The act of shooting; the discharge of a missile; a shot; as, the
shoot of a shuttle.
The Turkish bow giveth a very forcible shoot. Bacon.
One underneath his horse to get a shoot doth stalk. Drayton.

2. A young branch or growth.
Superfluous branches and shoots of this second spring. Evelyn.

3. A rush of water; a rapid.

4. (Min.)

Defn: A vein of ore running in the same general direction as the
lode. Knight.

5. (Weaving)

Defn: A weft thread shot through the shed by the shuttle; a pick.

6. Etym: [Perh. a different word.]

Defn: A shoat; a young hog.

SHOOTER
Shoot"er, n.

1. One who shoots, as an archer or a gunner.

2. That which shoots. Specifically:
(a) A firearm; as, a five-shooter. [Colloq. U.S.]
(b) A shooting star. [R.]

SHOOTING
Shoot"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, shoots; as, the shooting of an
archery club; the shooting of rays of light.

2. A wounding or killing with a firearm; specifically (Sporting), the
killing of game; as, a week of shooting.

3. A sensation of darting pain; as, a shooting in one's head.

SHOOTING
Shoot"ing, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to shooting; for shooting; darting. Shooting
board (Joinery), a fixture used in planing or shooting the edge of a
board, by means of which the plane is guided and the board held true.
 -- Shooting box, a small house in the country for use in the
shooting season. Prof. Wilson.
 -- Shooting gallery, a range, usually covered, with targets for
practice with firearms.
 -- Shooting iron, a firearm. [Slang, U.S.] -- Shooting star. (a)
(Astron.) A starlike, luminous meteor, that, appearing suddenly,
darts quickly across some portion of the sky, and then as suddenly
disappears, leaving sometimes, for a few seconds, a luminous train, -
- called also falling star. Shooting stars are small cosmical bodies
which encounter the earth in its annual revolution, and which become
visible by coming with planetary velocity into the upper regions of
the atmosphere. At certain periods, as on the 13th of November and
10th of August, they appear for a few hours in great numbers,
apparently diverging from some point in the heavens, such displays
being known as meteoric showers, or star showers. These bodies,
before encountering the earth, were moving in orbits closely allied
to the orbits of comets. See Leonids, Perseids. (b) (Bot.) The
American cowslip (Dodecatheon Meadia). See under Cowslip.
 -- Shooting stick (Print.), a tapering piece of wood or iron, used
by printers to drive up the quoins in the chase. Hansard.

SHOOTY
Shoot"y, a.

Defn: Sprouting or coming up freely and regularly. [Prev. Eng.]
Grose.

SHOP
Shop, obs.

Defn: imp. of Shape. Shaped. Chaucer.

SHOP
Shop, n. Etym: [OE. shoppe, schoppe, AS. sceoppa a treasury, a
storehouse, stall, booth; akin to scypen a shed, LG. schup a shed, G.
schoppen, schuppen, a shed, a coachhouse, OHG. scopf.]

1. A building or an apartment in which goods, wares, drugs, etc., are
sold by retail.
From shop to shop Wandering, and littering with unfolded silks The
polished counter. Cowper.

2. A building in which mechanics or artisans work; as, a shoe shop; a
car shop.
A tailor called me in his shop. Shak.

Note: Shop is often used adjectively or in composition; as, shop
rent, or shop-rent; shop thief, or shop-thief; shop window, or shop-
window, etc. To smell of the shop, to indicate too distinctively
one's occupation or profession.
 -- To talk shop, to make one's business the topic of social
conversation; also, to use the phrases peculiar to one's employment.
[Colloq.]

Syn.
 -- Store; warehouse. See Store.

SHOP
Shop, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shopped; p. pr. & vb. n. Shopping.]

Defn: To visit shops for the purpose of purchasing goods.
He was engaged with his mother and some ladies to go shopping. Byron.

SHOPBOARD
Shop"board`, n.

Defn: A bench or board on which work is performed; a workbench.
South.

SHOPBOOK
Shop"book`, n.

Defn: A book in which a tradesman keeps his accounts. Locke.

SHOPBOY
Shop"boy`, n.

Defn: A boy employed in a shop.

SHOPEN
Sho"pen, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Shape. Chaucer.

SHOPGIRL
Shop"girl`, n.

Defn: A girl employed in a shop.

SHOPKEEPER
Shop"keep`er, n.

Defn: A trader who sells goods in a shop, or by retail; -- in
distinction from one who sells by wholesale. Addison.

SHOPLIFTER
Shop"lift`er, n. Etym: [Shop + lift. See Lift to steal.]

Defn: One who steals anything in a shop, or takes goods privately
from a shop; one who, under pretense of buying goods, takes occasion
to steal.

SHOPLIFTING
Shop"lift`ing, n.

Defn: Larceny committed in a shop; the stealing of anything from a
shop.

SHOPLIKE
Shop"like`, a.

Defn: Suiting a shop; vulgar. B. Jonson.

SHOPMAID
Shop"maid`, n.

Defn: A shopgirl.

SHOPMAN
Shop"man, n.; pl. Shopmen (.

1. A shopkeeper; a retailer. Dryden.

2. One who serves in a shop; a salesman.

3. One who works in a shop or a factory.

SHOPPER
Shop"per, n.

Defn: One who shops.

SHOPPISH
Shop"pish, a.

Defn: Having the appearance or qualities of a shopkeeper, or shopman.

SHOPPY
Shop"py, a.

1. Abounding with shops. [Colloq.]

2. Of or pertaining to shops, or one's own shop or business; as,
shoppy talk. [Colloq.] Mrs. Gaskell.

SHOPSHIFT
Shop"shift`, n.

Defn: The trick of a shopkeeper; deception. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SHOPWALKER
Shop"walk`er, n.

Defn: One who walks about in a shop as an overseer and director. Cf.
Floorwalker.

SHOPWOMAN
Shop"wom`an, n.; pl. Shopwomen (.

Defn: A woman employed in a shop.

SHOPWORN
Shop"worn`, a.

Defn: Somewhat worn or damaged by having been kept for a time in a
shop.

SHORAGE
Shor"age, n.

Defn: Duty paid for goods brought on shore. Grabb.

SHORE
Shore,

Defn: imp. of Shear. Chaucer.

SHORE
Shore, n.

Defn: A sewer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SHORE
Shore, n. Etym: [OE. schore; akin to LG. schore, D. schoor, OD.
schoore, Icel. skor, and perhaps to E. shear, as being a piece cut
off.]

Defn: A prop, as a timber, placed as a brace or support against the
side of a building or other structure; a prop placed beneath
anything, as a beam, to prevent it from sinking or sagging. [Written
also shoar.]

SHORE
Shore, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shored; p. pr. & vb. n. Shoring.] Etym:
[OE. schoren. See Shore a prop.]

Defn: To support by a shore or shores; to prop; -- usually with up;
as, to shore up a building.

SHORE
Shore, n. Etym: [OE. schore, AS. score, probably fr. scieran, and so
meaning properly, that which is shorn off, edge; akin to OD. schoore,
schoor. See Shear, v. t.]

Defn: The coast or land adjacent to a large body of water, as an
ocean, lake, or large river.
Michael Cassio, Lieutenant to the warlike Moor Othello, Is come
shore. Shak.
The fruitful shore of muddy Nile. Spenser.
In shore, near the shore. Marryat.
 -- On shore. See under On.
 -- Shore birds (Zool.), a collective name for the various limicoline
birds found on the seashore.
 -- Shore crab (Zool.), any crab found on the beaches, or between
tides, especially any one of various species of grapsoid crabs, as
Heterograpsus nudus of California.
 -- Shore lark (Zool.), a small American lark (Otocoris alpestris)
found in winter, both on the seacoast and on the Western plains. Its
upper parts are varied with dark brown and light brown. It has a
yellow throat, yellow local streaks, a black crescent on its breast,
a black streak below each eye, and two small black erectile ear
tufts. Called also horned lark.
 -- Shore plover (Zool.), a large-billed Australian plover (Esacus
magnirostris). It lives on the seashore, and feeds on crustaceans,
etc.
 -- Shore teetan (Zool.), the rock pipit (Anthus obscurus). [Prov.
Eng.]

SHORE
Shore, v. t.

Defn: To set on shore. [Obs.] Shak.

SHORELESS
Shore"less, a.

Defn: Having no shore or coast; of indefinite or unlimited extent;
as, a shoreless ocean. Young.

SHORELING
Shore"ling, n.

Defn: See Shorling.

SHORER
Shor"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, shores or props; a prop; a shore.

SHOREWARD
Shore"ward, adv.

Defn: Toward the shore.

SHORING
Shor"ing, n.

1. The act of supporting or strengthening with a prop or shore.

2. A system of props; props, collectively.

SHORL; SHORLACEOUS
Shorl, n., Shor*la"ceous (,a. (Min.)

Defn: See Schorl, Schorlaceous.

SHORLING
Shor"ling, n.

1. The skin of a sheen after the fleece is shorn off, as distinct
from the morling, or skin taken from the dead sheep; also, a sheep of
the first year's shearing. [Prov. Eng.]

2. A person who is shorn; a shaveling; hence, in contempt, a priest.
[Obs.] Halliwell.

SHORN
Shorn (,

Defn: p. p. of Shear.

SHORT
Short, a. [Compar. Shorter; superl. Shortest.] Etym: [OE. short,
schort, AS. scort, sceort; akin to OHG. scurz, Icel. skorta to be
short of, to lack, and perhaps to E. shear, v. t. Cf. Shirt.]

1. Not long; having brief length or linear extension; as, a short
distance; a short piece of timber; a short flight.
The bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it. Isa.
xxviii. 20.

2. Not extended in time; having very limited duration; not
protracted; as, short breath.
The life so short, the craft so long to learn. Chaucer.
To short absense I could yield. Milton.

3. Limited in quantity; inadequate; insufficient; scanty; as, a short
supply of provisions, or of water.

4. Insufficiently provided; inadequately supplied; scantily
furnished; lacking; not coming up to a resonable, or the ordinary,
standard; -- usually with of; as, to be short of money.
We shall be short in our provision. Shak.

5. Deficient; defective; imperfect; not coming up, as to a measure or
standard; as, an account which is short of the trith.

6. Not distant in time; near at hand.
Marinell was sore offended That his departure thence should be so
short. Spenser.
He commanded those who were appointed to attend him to be ready by a
short day. Clarendon.

7. Limited in intellectual power or grasp; not comprehensive; narrow;
not tenacious, as memory.
Their own short understandings reach No farther than the present.
Rowe.

8. Less important, efficaceous, or powerful; not equal or equivalent;
less (than); -- with of.
Hardly anything short of an invasion could rouse them again to war.
Landor.

9. Abrupt; brief; pointed; petulant; as, he gave a short answer to
the question.

10. (Cookery)

Defn: Breaking or crumbling readily in the mouth; crisp; as, short
pastry.

11. (Metal)

Defn: Brittle.

Note: Metals that are brittle when hot are called ; as, cast iron may
be hot-short, owing to the presence of sulphur. Those that are
brittle when cold are called cold-short; as, cast iron may be cold-
short, on account of the presence of phosphorus.

12. (Stock Exchange)

Defn: Engaging or engaged to deliver what is not possessed; as, short
contracts; to be short of stock. See The shorts, under Short, n., and
To sell short, under Short, adv.

Note: In mercantile transactions, a note or bill is sometimes made
payable at short sight, that is, in a little time after being
presented to the payer.

13. (Phon.)

Defn: Not prolonged, or relatively less prolonged, in utterance; --
opposed to long, and applied to vowels or to syllables. In English,
the long and short of the same letter are not, in most cases, the
long and short of the same sound; thus, the i in ill is the short
sound, not of i in isle, but of ee in eel, and the e in pet is the
short sound of a in pate, etc. See Quantity, and Guide to
Pronunciation, 22, 30.

Note: Short is much used with participles to form numerous self-
explaining compounds; as, short-armed, short-billed, short-fingered,
short-haired, short-necked, short-sleeved, short-tailed, short-
winged, short-wooled, etc. At short notice, in a brief time;
promptly.
 -- Short rib (Anat.), one of the false ribs.
 -- Short suit (Whist), any suit having only three cards, or less
than three. R. A. Proctor.
 -- To come short, To cut short, To fall short, etc. See under Come,
Cut, etc.

SHORT
Short, n.

1. A summary account.
The short and the long is, our play is preferred. Shak.

2. pl.

Defn: The part of milled grain sifted out which is next finer than
the bran.
The first remove above bran is shorts. Halliwell.

3. pl.

Defn: Short, inferior hemp.

4. pl.

Defn: Breeches; shortclothes. [Slang] Dickens.

5. (Phonetics)

Defn: A short sound, syllable, or vowel.
If we compare the nearest conventional shorts and longs in English,
as in "bit" and "beat," "not" and "naught," we find that the short
vowels are generally wide, the long narrow, besides being generally
diphthongic as well. Hence, originally short vowels can be lengthened
and yet kept quite distinct from the original longs. H. Sweet.
In short, in few words; in brief; briefly.
 -- The long and the short, the whole; a brief summing up.
 -- The shorts (Stock Exchange), those who are unsupplied with stocks
which they contracted to deliver.

SHORT
Short, adv.

Defn: In a short manner; briefly; limitedly; abruptly; quickly; as,
to stop short in one's course; to turn short.
He was taken up very short, and adjudged corrigible for such
presumptuous language. Howell.
To sell short (Stock Exchange), to sell, for future delivery, what
the party selling does not own, but hopes to buy at a lower rate.

SHORT
Short, v. t. Etym: [AS. sceortian.]

Defn: To shorten. [Obs.]

SHORT
Short, v. i.

Defn: To fail; to decrease. [Obs.]

SHORTAGE
Short"age, n.

Defn: Amount or extent of deficiency, as determined by some
requirement or standard; as, a shortage in money accounts.

SHORT-BREATHED
Short"-breathed`, a.

1. Having short-breath, or quick respiration.

2. Having short life.

SHORTCAKE
Short"cake`, n.

Defn: An unsweetened breakfast cake shortened with butter or lard,
rolled thin, and baked.

SHORT CIRCUIT
Short" cir"cuit. (Elec.)

Defn: A circuit formed or closed by a conductor of relatively low
resistance because shorter or of relatively great conductivity.

SHORT-CIRCUIT
Short"-cir`cuit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Short-circuited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Short-circuiting.] (Elec.)

Defn: To join, as the electrodes of a battery or dynamo or any two
points of a circuit, by a conductor of low resistance.

SHORTCLOTHES
Short"clothes`, n.

Defn: Coverings for the legs of men or boys, consisting of trousers
which reach only to the knees, -- worn with long stockings.

SHORTCOMING
Short"com`ing, n.

Defn: The act of falling, or coming short; as:
(a) The failure of a crop, or the like.
(b) Neglect of, or failure in, performance of duty.

SHORT-DATED
Short"-dat`ed, a.

Defn: Having little time to run from the date. "Thy short-dated
life." Sandys.

SHORTEN
Short"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shortened ; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shortening.] Etym: [See Short, a.]

1. To make short or shorter in measure, extent, or time; as, to
shorten distance; to shorten a road; to shorten days of calamity.

2. To reduce or diminish in amount, quantity, or extent; to lessen;
to abridge; to curtail; to contract; as, to shorten work, an
allowance of food, etc.
Here, where the subject is so fruitful, I am shortened by my chain.
Dryden.

3. To make deficient (as to); to deprive; -- with of.
Spoiled of his nose, and shortened of his ears. Dryden.

4. To make short or friable, as pastry, with butter, lard, pot
liquor, or the like. To shorten a rope (Naut.), to take in the slack
of it.
 -- To shorten sail (Naut.), to reduce sail by taking it in.

SHORTEN
Short"en, v. i.

Defn: To become short or shorter; as, the day shortens in northern
latitudes from June to December; a metallic rod shortens by cold.

SHORTENER
Short"en*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, shortens.

SHORTENING
Short"en*ing, n.

1. The act of making or becoming short or shorter.

2. (Cookery)

Defn: That which renders pastry short or friable, as butter, lard,
etc.

SHORTHAND
Short"hand`, n.

Defn: A compendious and rapid method or writing by substituting
characters, abbreviations, or symbols, for letters, words, etc.;
short writing; stenography. See Illust. under Phonography.

SHORT-HANDED
Short`-hand"ed, a.

Defn: Short of, or lacking the regular number of, servants or
helpers.

SHORTHEAD
Short"head`, n.

Defn: A sucking whale less than one year old; -- so called by
sailors.

SHORTHORN
Short"horn`, a.

Defn: One of a breed of large, heavy domestic cattle having short
horns. The breed was developed in England.

SHORT-JOINTED
Short"-joint`ed, a.

Defn: Having short intervals between the joints; -- said of a plant
or an animal, especially of a horse whose pastern is too short.

SHORT-LIVED
Short"-lived`, a.

Defn: Not living or lasting long; being of short continuance; as, a
short-lived race of beings; short-lived pleasure; short-lived
passion.

SHORTLY
Short"ly, adv. Etym: [AS. sceortlice.]

1. In a short or brief time or manner; soon; quickly. Chaucer.
I shall grow jealous of you shortly. Shak.
The armies came shortly in view of each other. Clarendon.

2. In few words; briefly; abruptly; curtly; as, to express ideas more
shortly in verse than in prose.

SHORTNESS
Short"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being short; want of reach or
extension; brevity; deficiency; as, the shortness of a journey; the
shortness of the days in winter; the shortness of an essay; the
shortness of the memory; a shortness of provisions; shortness of
breath.

SHORTSIGHTED
Short"sight`ed, a.

1. Not able to see far; nearsighted; myopic. See Myopic, and Myopia.

2. Fig.: Not able to look far into futurity; unable to understand
things deep; of limited intellect.

3. Having little regard for the future; heedless.
 -- Short"sight`ed*ly, adv.
 -- Short"sight`ed*ness, n.
Cunning is a kind of shortsightedness. Addison.

SHORT-SPOKEN
Short"-spo`ken, a.

Defn: Speaking in a quick or short manner; hence, gruff; curt.
[Colloq.]

SHORTSTOP
Short"stop`, n. (Baseball)

Defn: The player stationed in the field bewtween the second and third
bases.

SHORT-WAISTED
Short"-waist`ed, a.

Defn: Having a short waist.

SHORT-WINDED
Short"-wind`ed, a.

Defn: Affected with shortness of breath; having a quick, difficult
respiration, as dyspnoic and asthmatic persons. May.

SHORTWING
Short"wing`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small wrenlike Asiatic birds
having short wings and a short tail. They belong to Brachypterix,
Callene, and allied genera.

SHORT-WITED
Short"-wit`ed, a.

Defn: Having little wit; not wise; having scanty intellect or
judgment.

SHORY
Shor"y, a.

Defn: Lying near the shore. [Obs.]

SHOSHONES
Sho*sho"nes, n. pl.; sing. Shoshone (. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A linguistic family or stock of North American Indians,
comprising many tribes, which extends from Montana and Idaho into
Mexico. In a restricted sense the name is applied especially to the
Snakes, the most northern of the tribes.

SHOT
Shot,

Defn: imp. & p. p. Shoot.

SHOT
Shot, a.

Defn: Woven in such a way as to produce an effect of variegation, of
changeable tints, or of being figured; as, shot silks. See Shoot, v.
t., 8.

SHOT
Shot, n. Etym: [AS. scot, sceot, fr. sceotan to shoot; akin to D.
sschot, Icel. skot. sq. root159. See Scot a share, Shoot, v. t., and
cf. Shot a shooting.]

Defn: A share or proportion; a reckoning; a scot.
Here no shots are where all shares be. Chapman.
A man is never . . . welcome to a place till some certain shot be
paid and the hostess say "Welcome." Shak.

SHOT
Shot, n.; pl. Shotor Shots. Etym: [OE. shot, schot, AS. gesceot a
missile; akin to D. schot a shot, shoot, G. schuss, geschoss a
missile, Icel. skot a throwing, a javelin, and E. shoot, v.t. sq.
root159. See Shoot, and cf. Shot a share.]

1. The act of shooting; discharge of a firearm or other weapon which
throws a missile.
He caused twenty shot of his greatest cannon to be made at the king's
army. Clarendon.

2. A missile weapon, particularly a ball or bullet; specifically,
whatever is discharged as a projectile from firearms or cannon by the
force of an explosive.

Note: Shot used in war is of various kinds, classified according to
the material of which it is composed, into lead, wrought-iron, and
cast-iron; according to form, into spherical and oblong; according to
structure and modes of operation, into solid, hollow, and case. See
Bar shot, Chain shot, etc., under Bar, Chain, etc.

3. Small globular masses of lead, of various sizes, -- used chiefly
for killing game; as, bird shot; buckshot.

4. The flight of a missile, or the distance which it is, or can be,
thrown; as, the vessel was distant more than a cannon shot.

5. A marksman; one who practices shooting; as, an exellent shot. Shot
belt, a belt having a pouch or compartment for carrying shot.
 -- Shot cartridge, a cartridge containing powder and small shot,
forming a charge for a shotgun.
 -- Shot garland (Naut.), a wooden frame to contain shot, secured to
the coamings and ledges round the hatchways of a ship.
 -- Shot gauge, an instrument for measuring the diameter of round
shot. Totten.
 -- shot hole, a hole made by a shot or bullet discharged.
 -- Shot locker (Naut.), a strongly framed compartment in the hold of
a vessel, for containing shot.
 -- Shot of a cable (Naut.), the splicing of two or more cables
together, or the whole length of the cables thus united.
 -- Shot prop (Naut.), a wooden prop covered with tarred hemp, to
stop a hole made by the shot of an enemy in a ship's side.
 -- Shot tower, a lofty tower for making shot, by dropping from its
summit melted lead in slender streams. The lead forms spherical drops
which cool in the descent, and are received in water or other liquid.
 -- Shot window, a window projecting from the wall. Ritson, quoted by
Halliwell, explains it as a window that opens and shuts; and Wodrow
describes it as a window of shutters made of timber and a few inches
of glass above them.

SHOT
Shot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shotted; p. pr. & vb. n. Shotting.]

Defn: To load with shot, as a gun. Totten.

SHOT-CLOG
Shot"-clog`, n.

Defn: A person tolerated only because he pays the shot, or reckoning,
for the rest of the company, otherwise a mere clog on them. [Old
Slang]
Thou common shot-clog, gull of all companies. Chapman.

SHOTE
Shote, n. Etym: [AS. sceota a darting fish, a trout, fr. sceotan. See
Shoot, v. t.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A fish resembling the trout. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Garew.

2. Etym: [Perh. a different word.]

Defn: A young hog; a shoat.

SHOT-FREE
Shot"-free`, a.

Defn: Not to be injured by shot; shot-proof. [Obs.] Feltham.

SHOT-FREE
Shot"-free`, a.

Defn: Free from charge or expense; hence, unpunished; scot-free.
[Obs.] Shak.

SHOTGUN
Shot"gun`, n.

Defn: A light, smooth-bored gun, often double-barreled, especially
designed for firing small shot at short range, and killing small
game.

SHOT-PROOF
Shot"-proof`, a.

Defn: Impenetrable by shot.

SHOTS
Shots, n. pl.

Defn: The refuse of cattle taken from a drove. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

SHOT SAMPLES
Shot samples. (Metal.)

Defn: Samples taken for assay from  a molten metallic mass pouring a
portion into water, to granulate it.

SHOTTED
Shot"ted, a.

1. Loaded with shot.

2. (Med.)

Defn: Having a shot attached; as, a shotten suture.

SHOTTEN
Shot"ten, n. Etym: [Properly p. p. of shoot; AS. scoten, sceoten, p.
p. of sceotan.]

1. Having ejected the spawn; as, a shotten herring. Shak.

2. Shot out of its socket; dislocated, as a bone.

SHOUGH
Shough, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A shockdog.

SHOUGH
Shough, interj.

Defn: See Shoo. Beau & Fl.

SHOULD
Should, imp. of Shall. Etym: [OE. sholde, shulde, scholde, schulde,
AS. scolde, sceolde. See Shall.]

Defn: Used as an auxiliary verb, to express a conditional or
contingent act or state, or as a supposition of an actual fact; also,
to express moral obligation (see Shall); e. g.: they should have come
last week; if I should go; I should think you could go. "You have
done that you should be sorry for." Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Ought.

SHOULDER
Shoul"der, n. Etym: [OE. shulder, shuldre, schutder, AS. sculdor;
akin to D. schoulder, G. schulter, OHG. scultarra, Dan. skulder, Sw.
skuldra.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The joint, or the region of the joint, by which the fore limb
is connected with the body or with the shoulder girdle; the
projection formed by the bones and muscles about that joint.

2. The flesh and muscles connected with the shoulder joint; the upper
part of the back; that part of the human frame on which it is most
easy to carry a heavy burden; -- often used in the plural.
Then by main force pulled up, and on his shoulders bore The gates of
Azza. Milton.
Adown her shoulders fell her length of hair. Dryden.

3. Fig.: That which supports or sustains; support.
In thy shoulder do I build my seat. Shak.

4. That which resembles a human shoulder, as any protuberance or
projection from the body of a thing.
The north western shoulder of the mountain. Sir W. Scott.

5. The upper joint of the fore leg and adjacent parts of an animal,
dressed for market; as, a shoulder of mutton.

6. (Fort.)

Defn: The angle of a bastion included between the face and flank. See
Illust. of Bastion.

7. An abrupt projection which forms an abutment on an object, or
limits motion, etc., as the projection around a tenon at the end of a
piece of timber, the part of the top of a type which projects beyond
the base of the raised character, etc. Shoulder belt, a belt that
passes across the shoulder.
 -- Shoulder blade (Anat.), the flat bone of the shoulder, to which
the humerus is articulated; the scapula.
 -- Shoulder block (Naut.), a block with a projection, or shoulder,
near the upper end, so that it can rest against a spar without
jamming the rope.
 -- Shoulder clapper, one who claps another on the shoulder, or who
uses great familiarity. [Obs.] Shak.
 -- Shoulder girdle. (Anat.) See Pectoral girdle, under Pectoral.
 -- Shoulder knot, an ornamental knot of ribbon or lace worn on the
shoulder; a kind of epaulet or braided ornament worn as part of a
military uniform.
 -- Shoulder-of-mutton sail (Naut.), a triangular sail carried on a
boat's mast; -- so called from its shape.
 -- Shoulder slip, dislocation of the shoulder, or of the humerous.
Swift.
 -- Shoulder strap, a strap worn on or over the shoulder.
Specifically (Mil. & Naval), a narrow strap worn on the shoulder of a
commissioned officer, indicating, by a suitable device, the rank he
holds in the service. See Illust. in App.

SHOULDER
Shoul"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shouldered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shouldering.]

1. To push or thrust with the shoulder; to push with violence; to
jostle.
As they the earth would shoulder from her seat. Spenser.
Around her numberless the rabble flowed, Shouldering each other,
crowding for a view. Rowe.

2. To take upon the shoulder or shoulders; as, to shoulder a basket;
hence, to assume the burden or responsibility of; as, to shoulder
blame; to shoulder a debt.
As if Hercules Or burly Atlas shouldered up their state. Marston.
Right shoulder arms (Mil.), a position in the Manual of Arms which
the piece is placed on the right shoulder, with the lock plate up,
and the muzzle elevated and inclined to the left, and held as in the
illustration.

SHOULDERED
Shoul"dered, a.

Defn: Having shoulders; -- used in composition; as, a broad-
shouldered man. "He was short-shouldered." Chaucer.

SHOULDER-SHOTTEN
Shoul"der-shot`ten, a.

Defn: Sprained in the shoulder, as a horse. Shak.

SHOUT
Shout, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shouted; p. pr. & vb. n. Shouting.] Etym:
[OE. shouten, of unknown origin; perhaps akin to shoot; cf. Icel. sk,
sk, a taunt.]

Defn: To utter a sudden and loud outcry, as in joy, triumph, or
exultation, or to attract attention, to animate soldiers, etc.
Shouting of the men and women eke. Chaucer.
They shouted thrice: what was the last cry for Shak.
To shout at, to utter shouts at; to deride or revile with shouts.

SHOUT
Shout, v. t.

1. To utter with a shout; to cry; -- sometimes with out; as, to
shout, or to shout out, a man's name.

2. To treat with shouts or clamor. Bp. Hall.

SHOUT
Shout, n.

Defn: A loud burst of voice or voices; a vehement and sudden outcry,
especially of a multitudes expressing joy, triumph, exultation, or
animated courage.
The Rhodians, seeing the enemy turn their backs, gave a great shout
in derision. Knolles.

SHOUTER
Shout"er, n.

Defn: One who shouts.

SHOVE
Shove, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shoved; p. pr. & vb. n. Shoving.] Etym:
[OE. shoven, AS. scofian, fr. sc; akin to OFries. sk, D. schuiven, G.
schieben, OHG. scioban, Icel. sk, sk, Sw. skuffa, Dan. skuffe, Goth.
afskiuban to put away, cast away; cf. Skr. kshubh to become agitated,
to quake, Lith. skubrus quick, skubinti to hasten. sq. root160. Cf.
Sheaf a bundle of stalks, Scoop, Scuffle.]

1. To drive along by the direct and continuous application of
strength; to push; especially, to push (a body) so as to make it move
along the surface of another body; as, to shove a boat on the water;
to shove a table across the floor.

2. To push along, aside, or away, in a careless or rude manner; to
jostle.
And shove away the worthy bidden guest. Milton.
He used to shove and elbow his fellow servants. Arbuthnot.

SHOVE
Shove, v. i.

1. To push or drive forward; to move onward by pushing or jostling.

2. To move off or along by an act pushing, as with an oar a pole used
by one in a boat; sometimes with off.
He grasped the oar,shoved from shore. Garth.

SHOVE
Shove, n.

Defn: The act of shoving; a forcible push.
I rested . . . and then gave the boat another shove. Swift.

Syn.
 -- See Thrust.

SHOVE
Shove, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Shove. Chaucer.

SHOVEBOARD; SHOVEGROAT
Shove"board`, Shove"groat`, n.

Defn: The same as Shovelboard.

SHOVEL
Shov"el, n. Etym: [OE. shovele, schovele, AS. scoft, sceoft; akin to
D. schoffel, G. schaufel, OHG. sc, Dan. skovl, Sw. skofvel, skyffel,
and to E. shove. sq. root160. See Shove, v. t.]

Defn: An implement consisting of a broad scoop, or more or less
hollow blade, with a handle, used for lifting and throwing earth,
coal, grain, or other loose substances. Shovel hat, a broad-brimmed
hat, turned up at the sides, and projecting in front like a shovel, -
- worn by some clergy of the English Church. [Colloq.] -- Shovelspur
(Zool.), a flat, horny process on the tarsus of some toads, -- used
in burrowing.
 -- Steam shovel, a machine with a scoop or scoops, operated by a
steam engine, for excavating earth, as in making railway cuttings.

SHOVEL
Shov"el, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shoveled or Shovelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shoveling or Shovelling.]

1. To take up and throw with a shovel; as, to shovel earth into a
heap, or into a cart, or out of a pit.

2. To gather up as with a shovel.

SHOVELARD
Shov"el*ard, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Shoveler. [Prov. Eng.]

SHOVELBILL
Shov"el*bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The shoveler.

SHOVELBOARD
Shov"el*board`, n.

1. A board on which a game is played, by pushing or driving pieces of
metal or money to reach certain marks; also, the game itself. Called
also shuffleboard, shoveboard, shovegroat, shovelpenny.

2. A game played on board ship in which the aim is to shove or drive
with a cue wooden disks into divisions chalked on the deck; -- called
also shuffleboard.

SHOVELER
Shov"el*er, n. Etym: [Also shoveller.]

1. One who, or that which, shovels.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A river duck (Spatula clypeata), native of Europe and America.
It has a large bill, broadest towards the tip. The male is handsomely
variegated with green, blue, brown, black, and white on the body; the
head and neck are dark green. Called also broadbill, spoonbill,
shovelbill, and maiden duck. The Australian shoveler, or shovel-nosed
duck (S. rhynchotis), is a similar species.

SHOVELFUL
Shov"el*ful, n.; pl. Shovelfuls (.

Defn: As much as a shovel will hold; enough to fill a shovel.

SHOVELHEAD
Shov"el*head`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A shark (Sphryna tiburio) allied to the hammerhead, and native
of the warmer parts of the Atlantic and Pacific oceans; -- called
also bonnet shark.

SHOVELNOSE
Shov"el*nose`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The common sand shark. See under Snad.
(b) A small California shark (Heptranchias maculatus), which is taken
for its oil.
(c) A Pacific Ocean shark (Hexanchus corinus).
(d) A ganoid fish of the Sturgeon family (Scaphirhynchus
platyrhynchus) of the Mississippi and Ohio rivers; -- called also
white sturgeon.

SHOVEL-NOSED
Shov"el-nosed`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a broad, flat nose; as, the shovel-nosed duck, or
shoveler.

SHOVEN
Shov"en, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Shove. Chaucer.

SHOW
Show, v. t. [imp. Showed; p. p. Shown or Showed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Showing. It is sometimes written shew, shewed, shewn, shewing.] Etym:
[OE. schowen, shewen, schewen, shawen, AS. sceawian, to look, see,
view; akin to OS. scaw, OFries. skawia, D. schouwen, OHG. scouw, G.
schauen, Dan. skue, Sw. sk, Icel. sko, Goth. usskawjan to waken,
skuggwa a mirror, Icel. skuggy shade, shadow, L. cavere to be on
one's guard, Gr. kavi wise. Cf. Caution, Scavenger, Sheen.]

1. To exhibit or present to view; to place in sight; to display; --
the thing exhibited being the object, and often with an indirect
object denoting the person or thing seeing or beholding; as, to show
a house; show your colors; shopkeepers show customers goods (show
goods to customers).
Go thy way, shew thyself to the priest. Matt. viii. 4.
Nor want we skill or art from whence to raise Magnificence; and what
can heaven show more Milton.

2. To exhibit to the mental view; to tell; to disclose; to reveal; to
make known; as, to show one's designs.
Shew them the way wherein they must walk. Ex. xviii. 20.
If it please my father to do thee evil, then I will shew it thee, and
send thee away. 1 Sam. xx. 13.

3. Specifically, to make known the way to (a person); hence, to
direct; to guide; to asher; to conduct; as, to show a person into a
parlor; to show one to the door.

4. To make apparent or clear, as by evidence, testimony, or
reasoning; to prove; to explain; also, to manifest; to evince; as, to
show the truth of a statement; to show the causes of an event.
I 'll show my duty by my timely care. Dryden.

5. To bestow; to confer; to afford; as, to show favor.
Shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me. Ex. xx. 6.
To show forth, to manifest; to publish; to proclaim.
 -- To show his paces, to exhibit the gait, speed, or the like; --
said especially of a horse.
 -- To show off, to exhibit ostentatiously.
 -- To show up, to expose. [Colloq.]

SHOW
Show, v. i. Etym: [Written also shew.]

1. To exhibit or manifest one's self or itself; to appear; to look;
to be in appearance; to seem.
Just such she shows before a rising storm. Dryden.
All round a hedge upshoots, and shows At distance like a little wood.
Tennyson.

2. To have a certain appearance, as well or ill, fit or unfit; to
become or suit; to appear.
My lord of York, it better showed with you. Shak.
To show off, to make a show; to display one's self.

SHOW
Show, n. Etym: [Formerly written also shew.]

1. The act of showing, or bringing to view; exposure to sight;
exhibition.

2. That which os shown, or brought to view; that which is arranged to
be seen; a spectacle; an exhibition; as, a traveling show; a cattle
show.
As for triumphs, masks, feasts, and such shows. Bacon.

3. Proud or ostentatious display; parade; pomp.
I envy none their pageantry and show. Young.

4. Semblance; likeness; appearance.
He through the midst unmarked, In show plebeian angel militant Of
lowest order, passed. Milton.

5. False semblance; deceitful appearance; pretense.
Beware of the scribes, . . . which devour widows' houses, and for a
shew make long prayers. Luke xx. 46. 47.

6. (Med.)

Defn: A discharge, from the vagina, of mucus streaked with blood,
occuring a short time before labor.

7. (Mining)

Defn: A pale blue flame, at the top of a candle flame, indicating the
presence of fire damp. Raymond. Show bill, a broad sheet containing
an advertisement in large letters.
 -- Show box, a box xontaining some object of curiosity carried round
as a show.
 -- Show card, an advertising placard; also, a card for displaying
samples.
 -- Show case, a gla -- Show glass, a glass which displays objects; a
mirror.
 -- Show of hands, a raising of hands to indicate judgment; as, the
vote was taken by a show of hands.
 -- Show stone, a piece of glass or crystal supposed to have the
property of exhibiting images of persons or things not present,
indicating in that way future events.

SHOWBREAD
Show"bread`, n. (Jewish Antiq.)

Defn: Bread of exhibition; loaves to set before God; -- the term used
in translating the various phrases used in the Hebrew and Greek to
designate the loaves of bread which the priest of the week placed
before the Lord on the golden table in the sanctuary. They were made
of fine flour unleavened, and were changed every Sabbath. The loaves,
twelve in number, represented the twelve tribes of Israel. They were
to be eaten by the priests only, and in the Holy Place. [Written also
shewbread.] Mark ii. 26.

SHOWER
Show"er, n.

1. One who shows or exhibits.

2. That which shows; a mirror. [Obs.] Wyclif.

SHOWER
Show"er, n. Etym: [OE. shour, schour, AS. se; akin to D. schoer, G.
schauer, OHG. sc, Icel. sk, Sw. skur, Goth. sk a storm of wind; of
uncertain origin.]

1. A fall or rain or hail of short duration; sometimes, but rarely, a
like fall of snow.
In drought or else showers. Chaucer.
Or wet the thirsty earth with falling showers. Milton.

2. That which resembles a shower in falling or passing through the
air copiously and rapidly.
With showers of stones he drives them far away. Pope.

3. A copious supply bestowed. [R.]
He and myself Have travail'd in the great shower of your gifts. Shak.
Shower bath, a bath in which water is showered from above, and
sometimes from the sides also.

SHOWER
Show"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Showered; p. pr. & vb. n. Showering.]

1. To water with a shower; to
Lest it again dissolve and shower the earth. Milton.

2. To bestow liberally; to destribute or scatter in Shak.
Cshowers down greatness on his friends. Addison.

SHOWER
Show"er, v. i.

Defn: To rain in showers; to fall, as in a hower or showers. Shak.

SHOWERFUL
Show"er*ful, a.

Defn: Full of showers. Tennyson.

SHOWERINESS
Show"er*i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being showery.

SHOWERLESS
Show"er*less, a.

Defn: Rainless; freo from showers.

SHOWERY
Show"er*y, a.

1. Raining in showers; abounding with frequent showers of rain.

2. Of or pertaining to a shower or showers. "Colors of the showery
arch." Milton.

SHOWILY
Show"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a showy manner; pompously; with parade.

SHOWINESS
Show"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being showy; pompousness; great parade;
ostentation.

SHOWING
Show"ing, n.

1. Appearance; display; exhibition.

2. Presentation of facts; statement. J. S. Mill.

SHOWISH
Show"ish, a.

Defn: Showy; ostentatious. Swift.

SHOWMAN
Show"man, n.; pl. Showmen.

Defn: One who exhibits a show; a proprietor of a show.

SHOWN
Shown,

Defn: p. p. of Show.

SHOWROOM
Show"room`, n.

Defn: A room or apartment where a show is exhibited.

2. A room where merchandise is exposed for sale, or where samples are
displayed.

SHOWY
Show"y

Defn: , a. Etym: [Compar. Showier (; superl. Showiest.]

Defn: Making a show; attracting attention; presenting a marked
appearance; ostentatious; gay; gaudy.
A present of everything that was rich and showy. Addison.

Syn.
 -- Splendid; gay; gaudy; gorgeous; fine; magnificent; grand;
stately; sumptuous; pompous.

SHRAG
Shrag, n. Etym: [CF. Scrag.]

Defn: A twig of a tree cut off. [Obs.]

SHRAG
Shrag, v. t.

Defn: To trim, as trees; to lop. [Obs.]

SHRAGGER
Shrag"ger, n.

Defn: One who lops; one who trims trees. [Obs.] Huloet.

SHRAM
Shram, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Shrink.]

Defn: To cause to shrink or shrivel with cold; to benumb. [Prov.
Eng.]

SHRANK
Shrank,

Defn: imp. of Shrink.

SHRAP; SHRAPE
Shrap, Shrape, n. Etym: [Cf. Scrap, and Scrape.]

Defn: A place baited with chaff to entice birds. [Written also
scrap.] [Obs.] Bp. Bedell.

SHRAPNEL
Shrap"nel, a.

Defn: Applied as an appellation to a kind of shell invented by Gen.
H. Shrapnel of the British army.
 -- n.

Defn: A shrapnel shell; shrapnel shells, collectively. Shrapnel shell
(Gunnery), a projectile for a cannon, consisting of a shell filled
with bullets and a small bursting charge to scatter them at any given
point while in flight. See the Note under Case shot.

SHRED
Shred, n. Etym: [OE. shrede, schrede, AS. screade; akin to OD.
schroode, G. schrot a piece cut off, Icel. skrjothr a shred, and to
E. shroud. Cf. Screed, Scroll, Scrutiny.]

1. A long, narrow piece cut or torn off; a strip. "Shreds of tanned
leather." Bacon.

2. In general, a fragment; a piece; a particle. Shak.

SHRED
Shred, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shred or Shredded (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Shredding.] Etym: [OE. shreden, schreden, AS. screadian; akin to OD.
schrooden, OHG. scr, G. schroten. See Shred, n.]

1. To cut or tear into small pieces, particularly narrow and long
pieces, as of cloth or leather. Chaucer.

2. To lop; to prune; to trim. [Obs.]

SHREDCOOK
Shred"cook`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The fieldfare; -- so called from its harsh cry before rain.
[Prov. Eng.]

SHREDDING
Shred"ding, n.

1. The act of cutting or tearing into shreds.

2. That which is cut or torn off; a piece. Hooker.

SHREDDY
Shred"dy, a.

Defn: Consisting of shreds.

SHREDLESS
Shred"less, a.

Defn: Having no shreds; without a shred.
And those which waved are shredless dust ere now. Byron.

SHREW
Shrew, a. Etym: [OE. shrewe, schrewe. Cf. Shrewd.]

Defn: Wicked; malicious. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SHREW
Shrew, n. Etym: [See Shrew, a.]

1. Originally, a brawling, turbulent, vexatious person of either sex,
but now restricted in use to females; a brawler; a scold.
A man . . . grudgeth that shrews [i. e., bad men] have prosperity, or
else that good men have adversity. Chaucer.
A man had got a shrew to his wife, and there could be no quiet in the
house for her. L'Estrange.

2. Etym: [AS. screawa; -- so called because supposed to be venomous.
] (Zool.)

Defn: Any small insectivore of the genus Sorex and several allied
genera of the family Sorecid?. In form and color they resemble mice,
but they have a longer and more pointed nose. Some of them are the
smallest of all mammals.

Note: The common European species are the house shrew (Crocidura
araneus), and the erd shrew (Sorex vulgaris) (see under Erd.). In the
United States several species of Sorex and Blarina are common, as the
broadnosed shrew (S. platyrhinus), Cooper's shrew (S. Cooperi), and
the short-tailed, or mole, shrew (Blarina brevicauda). Th American
water, or marsh, shrew (Neosorex palustris), with fringed feet, is
less common. The common European water shrews are Crossopus fodiens,
and the oared shrew (see under Oared). Earth shrew, any shrewlike
burrowing animal of the family Centetid?, as the tendrac.
 -- Elephant shrew, Jumping shrew, Mole shrew. See under Elephant,
Jumping, etc.
 -- Musk shrew. See Desman.
 -- River shrew, an aquatic West African insectivore (Potamogale
velox) resembling a weasel in form and size, but having a large
flattened and crested tail adapted for rapid swimming. It feeds on
fishes.
 -- Shrew mole, a common large North American mole (Scalops
aquaticus). Its fine, soft fur is gray with iridescent purple tints.

SHREW
Shrew, v. t. Etym: [See Shrew, a., and cf. Beshrew.]

Defn: To beshrew; to curse. [Obs.] "I shrew myself." Chaucer.

SHREWD
Shrewd, a. [Compar. Shrewder; superl. Shrewdest.] Etym: [Originally
the p. p. of shrew, v.t.]

1. Inclining to shrew; disposing to curse or scold; hence, vicious;
malicious; evil; wicked; mischievous; vexatious; rough; unfair;
shrewish. [Obs.] Chaucer.
[Egypt] hath many shrewd havens, because of the great rocks that ben
strong and dangerous to pass by. Sir J. Mandeville.
Every of this happy number That have endured shrewd days and nights
with us. Shak.

2. Artful; wily; cunning; arch.
These women are shrewd tempters with their tongues. Shak.

3. Able or clever in practical affairs; sharp in business; astute;
sharp-witted; sagacious; keen; as, a shrewd observer; a shrewd
design; a shrewd reply.
Professing to despise the ill opinion of mankind creates a shrewd
suspicion that we have deserved it. Secker.

Syn.
 -- Keen; critical; subtle; artful; astute; sagacious; discerning;
acute; penetrating.
 -- Shrewd, Sagacious. One who is shrewd is keen to detect errors, to
penetrate disguises, to foresee and guard against the selfishness of
others. Shrewd is a word of less dignity than sagacious, which
implies a comprehensive as well as penetrating mind, whereas shrewd
does not.
 -- Shrewd"ly, adv.
 -- Shrewd"ness, n.

SHREWISH
Shrew"ish, a.

Defn: having the qualities of a shrew; having a scolding disposition;
froward; peevish.
My wife is shrewish when I keep not hours. Shak.
-- Shrew"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Shrew"ish*ness, n.

SHREWMOUSE
Shrew"mouse`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A shrew; especially, the erd shrew.

SHRIEK
Shriek, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shrieked; p. pr. & vb. n. Shrieking.]
Etym: [OE. shriken, originallythe same word as E. screech. See
Screech, and cf. Screak.]

Defn: To utter a loud, sharp, shrill sound or cry, as do some birds
and beasts; to scream, as in a sudden fright, in horror or anguish.
It was the owl that shrieked. Shak.
At this she shrieked aloud; the mournful train Echoed her grief.
Dryden.

SHRIEK
Shriek, v. t.

Defn: To utter sharply and shrilly; to utter in or with a shriek or
shrieks.
On top whereof aye dwelt the ghostly owl, Shrieking his baleful note.
Spenser.
She shrieked his name To the dark woods. Moore.

SHRIEK
Shriek, n.

Defn: A sharp, shrill outcry or scream; a shrill wild cry such as is
caused by sudden or extreme terror, pain, or the like.
Shrieks, clamors, murmurs, fill the frighted town. Dryden.
Shriek owl. (Zool.) (a) The screech owl. (b) The swift; -- so called
from its cry.

SHRIEKER
Shriek"er, n.

Defn: One who utters a shriek.

SHRIEVAL
Shriev"al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sheriff.

SHRIEVALTY
Shriev"al*ty, n. Etym: [Contr. from sheriffalty. See Shrieve, n.
Sheriff.]

Defn: The office, or sphere of jurisdiction, of a sheriff;
sheriffalty.
It was ordained by 28 Edward I that the people shall have election of
sheriff in every shire where the shrievalty is not of inheritance.
Blackstone.

SHRIEVE
Shrieve, n. Etym: [Contr. from OE. shereve. See Sheriff.]

Defn: A sheriff. [Obs.] Shak.

SHRIEVE
Shrieve, v. t.

Defn: To shrive; to question. [Obs.] "She gan him soft to shrieve."
Spenser.

SHRIFT
Shrift, n. Etym: [OE. shrift, schrift, AS. scrift, fr. scrifan to
shrive. See Shrive.]

1. The act of shriving.
In shrift and preaching is my diligence. Chaucer.

2. Confession made to a priest, and the absolution consequent upon
it. Chaucer.
Have you got leave to go to shrift to-day Shak.
Therefore, my lord, address you to your shrift, And be yourself; for
you must die this instant. Rowe.
Shrift father, a priest to whom confession is made.

SHRIGHT
Shright, obs.

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Shriek.
She cried alway and shright. Chaucer.

SHRIGHT
Shright, n. Etym: [See Shriek.]

Defn: A shriek; shrieking. [Obs] Spenser. "All hoarse for shright."
Chaucer.

SHRIKE
Shrike, n. Etym: [Akin to Icel. skrikja a shrieker, the shrike, and
E. shriek; cf. AS. scric a thrush. See Shriek, v. i.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of oscinine birds of the family
Laniid?, having a strong hooked bill, toothed at the tip. Most
shrikes are insectivorous, but the common European gray shrike
(Lanius excubitor), the great northern shrike (L. borealis), and
several others, kill mice, small birds, etc., and often impale them
on thorns, and are, on that account called also butcher birds. See
under Butcher.

Note: The ant shrikes, or bush shrikes, are clamatorial birds of the
family Formicarid?. The cuckoo shrikes of the East Indies and
Australia are Oscines of the family Campephagid?. The drongo shrikes
of the same regions belong to the related family Dicrurid?. See
Drongo. Crow shrike. See under Crow.
 -- Shrike thrush. (a) Any one of several species of Asiatic timaline
birds of the genera Thamnocataphus, Gampsorhynchus, and allies. (b)
Any one of several species of shrikelike Australian singing birds of
the genus Colluricincla.
 -- Shrike tit. (a) Any one of several Australian birds of the genus
Falcunculus, having a strong toothed bill and sharp claws. They creep
over the bark of trees, like titmice, in search of insects. (b) Any
one of several species of small Asiatic birds belonging to Allotrius,
Pteruthius, Cutia, Leioptila, and allied genera, related to the true
tits. Called also hill tit.
 -- Swallow shrike. See under Swallow.

SHRILL
Shrill, a. [Compar. Shriller; superl. Shrillest.] Etym: [OE. shril,
schril; akin to LG. schrell, G. schrill. See Shrill,v. i.]

Defn: Acute; sharp; piercing; having or emitting a sharp, piercing
tone or sound; -- said a sound, or of that which produces a sound.
Hear the shrill whistle which doth order give To sounds confused.
Shak.
Let winds be shrill, let waves roll high. Byron.

SHRILL
Shrill, n.

Defn: A shrill sound. [Obs.] Spenser.

SHRILL
Shrill, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shrilled; p. pr. & vb. n. Shrilling.]
Etym: [OE. schrillen, akin to G. schrillen; cf. AS. scralletan to
resound loudly, Icel. skrolta to jolt, Sw. skralla to shrill, Norw.
skryla, skr. Cf. Skirl.]

Defn: To utter an acute, piercing sound; to sound with a sharp,
shrill tone; to become shrill.
Break we our pipes, that shrilledloud as lark. Spenser.
No sounds were heard but of the shrilling cock. Goldsmith.
His voice shrilled with passion. L. Wallace.

SHRILL
Shrill, v. t.

Defn: To utter or express in a shrill tone; to cause to make a shrill
sound.
How poor Andromache shrills her dolors forth. Shak.

SHRILL-GORGED
Shrill"-gorged`, a.

Defn: Having a throat which produces a shrill note. [R.] Shak.

SHRILLNESS
Shrill"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being shrill.

SHRILL-TONGUED
Shrill"-tongued`, a.

Defn: Having a shrill voice. "When shrill-tongued Fulvia scolds."
Shak.

SHRILLY
Shril"ly, adv.

Defn: In a shrill manner; acutely; with a sharp sound or voice.

SHRILLY
Shril"ly, a.

Defn: Somewhat shrill. [Poetic] Sir W. Scott.
Some kept up a shrilly mellow sound. Keats.

SHRIMP
Shrimp, v. t. Etym: [Cf. AS. scrimman to dry up, wither, MHG.
schrimpfen to shrink, G. schrumpfen, Dan. skrumpe, skrumpes, Da. &
Sw. skrumpen shriveled. Cf. Scrimp, Shrink, Shrivel.]

Defn: To contract; to shrink. [Obs.]

SHRIMP
Shrimp, n. Etym: [OE. shrimp; -- probably so named from its shriveled
appearance. See Shrimp, v.]

1. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of numerous species of macruran Crustacea belonging to
Crangon and various allied genera, having a slender body and long
legs. Many of them are used as food. The larger kinds are called also
prawns. See Illust. of Decapoda.
(b) In a more general sense, any species of the macruran tribe
Caridea, or any species of the order Schizopoda, having a similar
form.
(c) In a loose sense, any small crustacean, including some amphipods
and even certain entomostracans; as, the fairy shrimp, and brine
shrimp. See under Fairy, and Brine.

2. Figuratively, a little wrinkled man; a dwarf; -- in contempt.
This weak and writhled shrimp. Shak.
Opossum shrimp. (Zool.) See under Opossum.
 -- Spector shrimp, or Skeleton shrimp (Zool.), any slender amphipod
crustacean of the genus Caprella and allied genera. See Illust. under
L?modopoda.
 -- Shrimp catcher (Zool.), the little tern (Sterna minuta).
 -- Shrimp net, a dredge net fixed upon a pole, or a sweep net
dragged over the fishing ground.

SHRIMPER
Shrimp"er, n.

Defn: One who fishes for shrimps.

SHRINE
Shrine, n. Etym: [OE. schrin, AS. scrin, from L. scrinium a case,
chest, box.]

1. A case, box, or receptacle, especially one in which are deposited
sacred relics, as the bones of a saint.

2. Any sacred place, as an altar, tromb, or the like.
Too weak the sacred shrine guard. Byron.

3. A place or object hallowed from its history or associations; as, a
shrine of art.

SHRINE
Shrine, v. t.

Defn: To enshrine; to place reverently, as in a shrine. "Shrined in
his sanctuary." Milton.

SHRINK
Shrink, v. i. [imp. Shrank or Shrunk p. p. Shrunk or Shrunken (, but
the latter is now seldom used except as a participial adjective; p.
pr. & vb. n. Shrinking.] Etym: [OE. shrinken, schrinken, AS.
scrincan; akin to OD. schrincken, and probably to Sw. skrynka a
wrinkle, skrynkla to wrinkle, to rumple, and E. shrimp, n. & v.,
scrimp. CF. Shrimp.]

1. To wrinkle, bend, or curl; to shrivel; hence, to contract into a
less extent or compass; to gather together; to become compacted.
And on a broken reed he still did stay His feeble steps, which shrunk
when hard thereon he lay. Spenser.
I have not found that water, by mixture of ashes, will shrink or draw
into less room. Bacon.
Against this fire do I shrink up. Shak.
And shrink like parchment in consuming fire. Dryden.
All the boards did shrink. Coleridge.

2. To withdraw or retire, as from danger; to decline action from
fear; to recoil, as in fear, horror, or distress.
What happier natures shrink at with affright, The hard inhabitant
contends is right. Pope.
They assisted us against the Thebans when you shrank from the task.
Jowett (Thucyd.)

3. To express fear, horror, or pain by contracting the body, or part
of it; to shudder; to quake. [R.] Shak.

SHRINK
Shrink, v. t.

1. To cause to contract or shrink; as, to shrink finnel by imersing
it in boiling water.

2. To draw back; to withdraw. [Obs.]
The Libyc Hammon shrinks his horn. Milton.
To shrink on (Mach.), to fix (one piece or part) firmly around
(another) by natural contraction in cooling, as a tire on a wheel, or
a hoop upon a cannon, which is made slightly smaller than the part it
is to fit, and expanded by heat till it can be slipped into place.

SHRINK
Shrink, n.

Defn: The act shrinking; shrinkage; contraction; also, recoil;
withdrawal.
Yet almost wish, with sudden shrink, That I had less to praise. Leigh
Hunt.

SHRINKAGE
Shrink"age, n.

1. The act of shrinking; a contraction into less bulk or measurement.

2. The amount of such contraction; the bulk or dimension lost by
shrinking, as of grain, castings, etc.

3. Decrease in value; depreciation. [Colloq.]

SHRINKER
Shrink"er, n.

Defn: One who shrinks; one who withdraws from danger.

SHRINKING
Shrink"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Shrink. Shrinking head (Founding), a body of molten metal
connected with a mold for the purpose of supplying metal to
compensate for the shrinkage of the casting; -- called also sinking
head, and riser.

SHRINKINGLY
Shrink"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a shrinking manner.

SHRIVALTY
Shriv"al*ty, n.

Defn: Shrievalty. Johnson.

SHRIVE
Shrive, v. t. [imp. Shrived or Shrove (; p. p. Shriven or Shrived; p.
pr. & vb. n. Shriving.] Etym: [OE. shriven, schriven, AS. scrivan to
shrive, to impose penance or punishment; akin to OFries. skriva to
impose punishment; cf. OS. biskriban to be troubled. Cf. Shrift,
Shrovetide.]

1. To hear or receive the confession of; to administer confession and
absolution to; -- said of a priest as the agent.
That they should shrive their parishioners. Piers Plowman.
Doubtless he shrives this woman, . . . Else ne'er could he so long
protract his speech. Shak.
Till my guilty soul be shriven. Longfellow.

2. To confess, and receive absolution; -- used reflexively.
Get you to the church and shrive yourself. Beau & Fl.

SHRIVE
Shrive, v. i.

Defn: To receive confessions, as a priest; to administer confession
and absolution. Spenser.

SHRIVEL
Shriv"el, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shriveled or Shrivelled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Shriveling or Shrivelling.] Etym: [Probably akin to shrimp,
shrink; cf. dial. AS. screpa to pine away, Norw. skrypa to waste,
skryp, skryv, transitory, frail, Sw. skropling feeble, Dan.
skrobelig, Icel. skrj brittle, frail.]

Defn: To draw, or be drawn, into wrinkles; to shrink, and form
corrugations; as, a leaf shriveles in the hot sun; the skin shrivels
with age; -- often with up.

SHRIVEL
Shriv"el, v. t.

Defn: To cause to shrivel or contract; to cause to shrink onto
corruptions.

SHRIVEN
Shriv"en,

Defn: p. p. of Shrive.

SHRIVER
Shriv"er, n.

Defn: One who shrives; a confessor.

SHRIVING
Shriv"ing, n.

Defn: Shrift; confession. Spenser.

SHROFF
Shroff, n. Etym: [Ar. sarraf.]

Defn: A banker, or changer of money. [East Indies]

SHROFFAGE
Shroff"age, n.

Defn: The examination of coins, and the separation of the good from
the debased. [East Indies]

SHROOD
Shrood, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Shroud.] [Written also shroud, and shrowd.]

Defn: To trim; to lop. [Prov. Eng.]

SHROPSHIRE
Shrop"shire, n. [From Shropshire, country of England.]

Defn: An English breed of black-faced hornless sheep similar to the
Southdown, but larger, now extensively raised in many parts of the
world.

SHROUD
Shroud, n. Etym: [OE. shroud, shrud, schrud, AS. scr a garment,
clothing; akin to Icel. skru the shrouds of a ship, furniture of a
church, a kind of stuff, Sw. skrud dress, attire, and E. shred. See
Shred, and cf. Shrood.]

1. That which clothes, covers, conceals, or protects; a garment.
Piers Plowman.
Swaddled, as new born, in sable shrouds. Sandys.

2. Especially, the dress for the dead; a winding sheet. "A dead man
in his shroud." Shak.

3. That which covers or shelters like a shroud.
Jura answers through her misty shroud. Byron.

4. A covered place used as a retreat or shelter, as a cave or den;
also, a vault or crypt. [Obs.]
The shroud to which he won His fair-eyed oxen. Chapman.
A vault, or shroud, as under a church. Withals.

5. The branching top of a tree; foliage. [R.]
The Assyrian wad a cedar in Lebanon, with fair branches and with a
shadowing shroad. Ezek. xxxi. 3.

6. pl. (Naut.)

Defn: A set of ropes serving as stays to support the masts. The lower
shrouds are secured to the sides of vessels by heavy iron bolts and
are passed around the head of the lower masts.

7. (Mach.)

Defn: One of the two annular plates at the periphery of a water
wheel, which form the sides of the buckets; a shroud plate. Bowsprit
shrouds (Naut.), ropes extending from the head of the bowsprit to the
sides of the vessel.
 -- Futtock shrouds (Naut.), iron rods connecting the topmast rigging
with the lower rigging, passing over the edge of the top.
 -- Shroud plate. (a) (Naut.) An iron plate extending from the dead-
eyes to the ship's side. Ham. Nav. Encyc. (b) (Mach.) A shroud. See
def. 7, above.

SHROUD
Shroud, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shrouded; p. pr. & vb. n. Shrouding.]
Etym: [Cf. AS. scr. See Shroud, n.]

1. To cover with a shroud; especially, to inclose in a winding sheet;
to dress for the grave.
The ancient Egyptian mummies were shrouded in a number of folds of
linen besmeared with gums. Bacon.

2. To cover, as with a shroud; to protect completely; to cover so as
to conceal; to hide; to veil.
One of these trees, with all his young ones, may shroud four hundred
horsemen. Sir W. Raleigh.
Some tempest rise, And blow out all the stars that light the skies,
To shroud my shame. Dryden.

SHROUD
Shroud, v. i.

Defn: To take shelter or harbor. [Obs.]
If your stray attendance be yet lodged, Or shroud within these
limits. Milton.

SHROUD
Shroud, v. t.

Defn: To lop. See Shrood. [Prov. Eng.]

SHROUDED
Shroud"ed, a.

Defn: Provided with a shroud or shrouds. Shrouded gear (Mach.), a
cogwheel or pinion having flanges which form closed ends to the
spaces between the teeth and thus strengthen the teeth by tying them
together.

SHROUDING
Shroud"ing, n.

Defn: The shrouds. See Shroud, n., 7.

SHROUD-LAID
Shroud"-laid`, a.

Defn: Composed of four strands, and laid right-handed with a heart,
or center; -- said of rope. See Illust. under Cordage.

SHROUDLESS
Shroud"less, a.

Defn: Without a shroud.

SHROUDY
Shroud"y, a.

Defn: Affording shelter. [R.] Milton.

SHROVE
Shrove,

Defn: imp. of Shrive. Shrove Sunday, Quinguagesima Sunday.
 -- Shrove Tuesday, the Tuesday following Quinguagesima Sunday, and
preceding the first day of Lent, or Ash Wednesday.

Note: It was formerly customary in England, on this day, for the
people to confess their sins to their parish priests, after which
they dined on pancakes, or fritters, and the occasion became one of
merriment. The bell rung on this day is popularly called Pancake
Bell, and the day itself Pancake Tuesday. P. Cyc.

SHROVE
Shrove, v. i.

Defn: To join in the festivities of Shrovetide; hence, to make merry.
[Obs.] J. Fletcher.

SHROVETIDE
Shrove"tide`, n. Etym: [From shrive to take a confession (OE. imp.
shrof, AS. scraf) + tide.]

Defn: The days immediately preceding Ash Widnesday, especially the
period between the evening before Quinguagesima Sunday and the
morning of Ash Wednesday.

SHROVING
Shrov"ing, n.

Defn: The festivity of Shrovetide. [Obs.]

SHROW
Shrow, n.

Defn: A shrew. [Obs.] Shak.

SHROWD
Shrowd, v. t.

Defn: See Shrood. [Prov. Eng.]

SHRUB
Shrub, n. Etym: [Ar. shirb, shurb, a drink, beverage, fr. shariba to
drink. Cf. Sirup, Sherbet.]

Defn: A liquor composed of vegetable acid, especially lemon juice,
and sugar, with spirit to preserve it.

SHRUB
Shrub, n. Etym: [OE. schrob, AS. scrob, scrobb; akin to Norw. skrubba
the dwarf cornel tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: A woody plant of less size than a tree, and usually with
several stems from the same root.

SHRUB
Shrub, v. t.

Defn: To lop; to prune. [Obs.] Anderson (1573).

SHRUBBERY
Shrub"ber*y, n.; pl. Shrubberies (.

1. A collection of shrubs.

2. A place where shrubs are planted. Macaulay.

SHRUBBINESS
Shrub"bi*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being shrubby.

SHRUBBY
Shrub"by, a. [Compar. Shrubbier; superl. Shrubbiest.]

1. Full of shrubs.

2. Of the nature of a shrub; resembling a shrub. "Shrubby browse." J.
Philips.

SHRUBLESS
Shrub"less, a.

Defn: having no shrubs. Byron.

SHRUFF
Shruff, n. Etym: [Cf. Scruff, Scurf.]

Defn: Rubbish. Specifically: (a) Dross or refuse of metals. [Obs.]
(b) Light, dry wood, or stuff used for fuel. [Prov. Eng.]

SHRUG
Shrug, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shrugged; p. pr. & vb. n. Shrugging.]
Etym: [Probably akin to shrink, p. p. shrunk; cf. Dan. skrugge,
skrukke, to stoop, dial. Sw. skrukka, skruga, to crouch.]

Defn: To draw up or contract (the shoulders), especially by way of
expressing dislike, dread, doubt, or the like.
He shrugs his shoulders when you talk of securities. Addison.

SHRUG
Shrug, v. i.

Defn: To raise or draw up the shoulders, as in expressing dislike,
dread, doubt, or the like.
They grin, they shrug. They bow, they snarl, they snatch, they hug.
Swift.

SHRUG
Shrug, n.

Defn: A drawing up of the shoulders, -- a motion usually expressing
dislike, dread, or doubt.
The Spaniards talk in dialogues Of heads and shoulders, nods and
shrugs. Hudibras.

SHRUNKEN
Shrunk"en, p. p. & a.

Defn: from Shrink.

SHUCK
Shuck, n.

Defn: A shock of grain. [Prev.Eng.]

SHUCK
Shuck, n. Etym: [Perhaps akin to G. shote a husk, pod, shell.]

1. A shell, husk, or pod; especially, the outer covering of such nuts
as the hickory nut, butternut, peanut, and chestnut.

2. The shell of an oyster or clam. [U. S.]

SHUCK
Shuck, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shucked; p. pr. & vb. n. Shucking.]

Defn: To deprive of the shucks or husks; as, to shuck walnuts, Indian
corn, oysters, etc.

SHUCKER
Shuck"er, n.

Defn: One who shucks oysters or clams

SHUDDER
Shud"der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shuddered;p. pr. & vb. n. Shuddering.]
Etym: [OE. shoderen, schuderen; akin to LG. schuddern, D. schudden to
shake, OS. skuddian, G. schaudern to shudder, schutteln to shake,
schutten to pour, to shed, OHG. scutten, scuten, to shake.]

Defn: To tremble or shake with fear, horrer, or aversion; to shiver
with cold; to quake. "With shuddering horror pale." Milton.
The shuddering tennant of the frigid zone. Goldsmith.

SHUDDER
Shud"der, n.

Defn: The act of shuddering, as with fear. Shak.

SHUDDERINGLY
Shud"der*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a shuddering manner.

SHUDE
Shude, n.

Defn: The husks and other refuse of rice mills, used to adulterate
oil cake, or linseed cake.

SHUFFLE
Shuf"fle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shuffled; p. pr. & vb. n. Shuffling.]
Etym: [Originally the same word as scuffle, and properly a freq. of
shove. See Shove, and Scuffle.]

1. To shove one way and the other; to push from one to another; as,
to shuffle money from hand to hand.

2. To mix by pushing or shoving; to confuse; to throw into disorder;
especially, to change the relative positions of, as of the cards in a
pack.
A man may shuffle cards or rattle dice from noon to midnight without
tracing a new idea in his mind. Rombler.

3. To remove or introduce by artificial confusion.
It was contrived by your enemies, and shuffled into the papers that
were seizen. Dryden.
To shuffe off, to push off; to rid one's self of.
 -- To shuffe up, to throw together in hastel to make up or form in
confusion or with fraudulent disorder; as, he shuffled up a peace.

SHUFFLE
Shuf"fle, v. i.

1. To change the relative position of cards in a pack; as, to shuffle
and cut.

2. To change one's position; to shift ground; to evade questions; to
resort to equivocation; to prevaricate.
I muself, . . . hiding mine honor in my necessity, am fain to
shuffle. Shak.

3. To use arts or expedients; to make shift.
Your life, good master, Must shuffle for itself. Shak.

4. To move in a slovenly, dragging manner; to drag or scrape the feet
in walking or dancing.
The aged creature came Shuffling along with ivory-headed wand. Keats.

Syn.
 -- To equivicate; prevaricate; quibble; cavil; shift; siphisticate;
juggle.

SHUFFLE
Shuf"fle, n.

1. The act of shuffling; a mixing confusedly; a slovenly, dragging
motion.
The unguided agitation and rude shuffles of matter. Bentley.

2. A trick; an artifice; an evasion.
The gifts of nature are beyond all shame and shuffles. L'Estrange.

SHUFFLEBOARD
Shuf"fle*board`, n.

Defn: See Shovelboard.

SHUFFLECAP
Shuf"fle*cap`

Defn: ,.A play performed by shaking money in a hat or cap. [R.]
Arbuthnot.

SHUFFLER
Shuf"fler, n.

1. One who shuffles.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Either one of the three common American scaup ducks. See Scaup
duck, under Scaup.

SHUFFLEWING
Shuf"fle*wing`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The hedg sparrow. [Prov. Eng.]

SHUFFLING
Shuf"fling, a.

1. Moving with a dragging, scraping step. "A shuffling nag." Shak.

2. Evasive; as, a shuffling excuse. T. Burnet.

SHUFFLING
Shuf"fling, v.

Defn: In a shuffling manner.

SHUG
Shug, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Shrug.]

1. To writhe the body so as to produce friction against one's
clothes, as do those who have the itch. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. Hence, to crawl; to sneak. [Obs.]
There I 'll shug in and get a noble countenance. Ford.

SHUMAC
Shu"mac, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Sumac.

SHUN
Shun, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shunned; p. pr. & vb. n. Shunning.] Etym:
[OE. shunien, schunien, schonien, AS. scunian, sceonian; cf. D.
schuinen to slepe, schuin oblique, sloping, Icel. skunda, skynda, to
hasten. Cf. Schooner, Scoundrel, Shunt.]

Defn: To avoid; to keep clear of; to get out of the way of; to escape
from; to eschew; as, to shun rocks, shoals, vice.
I am pure from the blood of all men. For I have not shunned to
declare unto you all the counsel of God. Acts xx. 26,27.
Scarcity and want shall shun you. Shak.

Syn.
 -- See Avoid.

SHUNLESS
Shun"less, a.

Defn: Not to be shunned; inevitable; unavoidable. [R.] "Shunless
destiny." Shak.

SHUNT
Shunt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shunted; p. pr. & vb. n. Shunting.] Etym:
[Prov. E., to move from, to put off, fr. OE. shunten, schunten,
schounten; cf. D. schuinte a slant, slope, Icel. skunda to hasten.
Cf. Shun.]

1. To shun; to move from. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

2. To cause to move suddenly; to give a sudden start to; to shove.
[Obs. or Prov.Eng.] Ash.

3. To turn off to one side; especially, to turn off, as a grain or a
car upon a side track; to switch off; to shift.
For shunting your late partner on to me. T. Hughes.

4. (Elec.)

Defn: To provide with a shunt; as, to shunt a galvanometer.

SHUNT
Shunt, v. i.

Defn: To go aside; to turn off.

SHUNT
Shunt, n. Etym: [Cf. D. schuinte slant, slope, declivity. See Shunt,
v. t.]

1. (Railroad)

Defn: A turning off to a side or short track, that the principal
track may be left free.

2. (Elec.)

Defn: A conducting circuit joining two points in a conductor, or the
terminals of a galvanometer or dynamo, so as to form a parallel or
derived circuit through which a portion of the current may pass, for
the purpose of regulating the amount passing in the main circuit.

3. (Gunnery)

Defn: The shifting of the studs on a projectile from the deep to the
shallow sides of the grooves in its discharge from a shunt gun. Shunt
dynamo (Elec.), a dynamo in which the field circuit is connected with
the main circuit so as to form a shunt to the letter, thus employing
a portion of the current from the armature to maintain the field.
 -- Shunt gun, a firearm having shunt rifling. See under Rifling.

SHUNTER
Shunt"er, n. (Railroad)

Defn: A person employed to shunt cars from one track to another.

SHUNTING
Shunt"ing, p. pr. & vb. n. of Shunt. Specif.: vb. n.
 (a) (Railroads) Switching; as, shunting engine, yard, etc. [British]
 (b) (Finance) Arbitrage conducted between certain local markets
without the necessity of the exchange involved in foreign arbitrage.
[Great Britain]

SHUNT VALVE
Shunt valve. (Mach.)

Defn: A valve permitting a fluid under pressure an easier avenue of
escape than normally; specif., a valve, actuated by the governor,
used in one system of marine-engine governing to connect both ends of
the low-pressure cylinder as a supplementary control.

SHUNT WINDING
Shunt winding. (Elec.)

Defn: A winding so arranged as to divide the armature current and
lead a portion of it around the field-magnet coils; -- opposed to
series winding. --Shunt"-wound` (#), a.

SHUT
Shut, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Shut; p. pr. & vb. n. Shutting.] Etym: [OE.
shutten, schutten, shetten, schitten, AS. scyttan to shut or lock up
(akin to D. schutten, G. schutzen to protect), properly, to fasten
with a bolt or bar shot across, fr. AS. sceotan to shoot. sq.
root159. See Shoot.]

1. To close so as to hinder ingress or egress; as, to shut a door or
a gate; to shut one's eyes or mouth.

2. To forbid entrance into; to prohibit; to bar; as, to shut the
ports of a country by a blockade.
Shall that be shut to man which to the beast Is open Milton.

3. To preclude; to exclude; to bar out. "Shut from every shore."
Dryden.

4. To fold together; to close over, as the fingers; to close by
bringing the parts together; as, to shut the hand; to shut a book. To
shut in. (a) To inclose; to confine. "The Lord shut him in." Cen.
vii. 16. (b) To cover or intercept the view of; as, one point shuts
in another.
 -- To shut off. (a) To exclude. (b) To prevent the passage of, as
steam through a pipe, or water through a flume, by closing a cock,
valve, or gate.
 -- To shut out, to preclude from entering; to deny admission to; to
exclude; as, to shut out rain by a tight roof.
 -- To shut together, to unite; to close, especially to close by
welding.
 -- To shut up. (a) To close; to make fast the entrances into; as, to
shut up a house. (b) To obstruct. "Dangerous rocks shut up the
passage." Sir W. Raleigh. (c) To inclose; to confine; to imprison; to
fasten in; as, to shut up a prisoner.
Before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto the faith
which should afterwards be revealed. Gal. iii. 23.
(d) To end; to terminate; to conclude.
When the scene of life is shut up, the slave will be above his master
if he has acted better. Collier.
(e) To unite, as two pieces of metal by welding. (f) To cause to
become silent by authority, argument, or force.

SHUT
Shut, v. i.

Defn: To close itself; to become closed; as, the door shuts; it shuts
hard. To shut up, to cease speaking. [Colloq.] T. Hughes.

SHUT
Shut, a.

1. Closed or fastened; as, a shut door.

2. Rid; clear; free; as, to get shut of a person. [Now dialectical or
local, Eng. & U.S.] L'Estrange.

3. (Phon.)
(a) Formed by complete closure of the mouth passage, and with the
nose passage remaining closed; stopped, as are the mute consonants,
p, t, k, b, d, and hard g. H. Sweet.
(b) Cut off sharply and abruptly by a following consonant in the same
syllable, as the English short vowels, a, e, i, o, u, always are.

SHUT
Shut, n.

Defn: The act or time of shutting; close; as, the shut of a door.
Just then returned at shut of evening flowers. Milton.

2. A door or cover; a shutter. [Obs.] Sir I. Newton.

3. The line or place where two pieces of metal are united by welding.
Cold shut, the imperfection in a casting caused by the flowing of
liquid metal upon partially chilled metal; also, the imperfect weld
in a forging caused by the inadequate heat of one surface under
working.

SHUTE
Shute, n.

Defn: Same as Chute, or Shoot.

SHUTTER
Shut"ter, n.

1. One who shuts or closes.

2. A movable cover or screen for a window, designed to shut out the
light, to obstruct the view, or to be of some strength as a defense;
a blind.

3. A removable cover, or a gate, for closing an aperture of any kind,
as for closing the passageway for molten iron from a ladle.

SHUTTERED
Shut"tered, a.

Defn: Furnished with shutters.

SHUTTLE
Shut"tle, n. Etym: [Also shittle, OE. schitel, scytyl, schetyl; cf.
OE. schitel a bolt of a door, AS. scyttes; all from AS. sceotan to
shoot; akin to Dan. skyttel, skytte, shuttle, dial. Sw. skyttel,
skottel. sq. root159. See Shoot, and cf. Shittle, Skittles.]

1. An instrument used in weaving for passing or shooting the thread
of the woof from one side of the cloth to the other between the
threads of the warp.
Like shuttles through the loom, so swiftly glide My feathered hours.
Sandys.

2. The sliding thread holder in a sewing machine, which carries the
lower thread through a loop of the upper thread, to make a lock
stitch.

3. A shutter, as for a channel for molten metal. [R.] Shuttle box
(Weaving), a case at the end of a shuttle race, to receive the
shuttle after it has passed the thread of the warp; also, one of a
set of compartments containing shuttles with different colored
threads, which are passed back and forth in a certain order,
according to the pattern of the cloth woven.
 -- Shutten race, a sort of shelf in a loom, beneath the warp, along
which the shuttle passes; a channel or guide along which the shuttle
passes in a sewing machine.
 -- Shuttle shell (Zool.), any one of numerous species of marine
gastropods of the genus Volva, or Radius, having a smooth, spindle-
shaped shell prolonged into a channel at each end.

SHUTTLE
Shut"tle, v. i.

Defn: To move backwards and forwards, like a shuttle.
I had to fly far and wide, shutting athwart the big Babel, wherever
his calls and pauses had to be. Carlyle.

SHUTTLECOCK
Shut"tle*cock`, n.

Defn: A cork stuck with feathers, which is to be struck by a
battledoor in play; also, the play itself.

SHUTTLECOCK
Shut"tle*cock, v. t.

Defn: To send or toss to and fro; to bandy; as, to shuttlecock words.
Thackeray.

SHUTTLECORK
Shut"tle*cork`, n.

Defn: See Shuttlecock.

SHUTTLEWISE
Shut"tle*wise`, adv.

Defn: Back and forth, like the movement of a shuttle.

SHWAN-PAN
Shwan"-pan, n.

Defn: See Schwan-pan.

SHY
Shy, a. [Compar. Shier or Shyer; superl. Shiest or Shyest.] Etym:
[OE. schey, skey, sceouh, AS. sceoh; akin to Dan. sky, Sw. skygg, D.
schuw, MHG. schiech, G. scheu, OHG. sciuhen to be or make timid. Cf.
Eschew.]

1. Easily frightened; timid; as, a shy bird.
The horses of the army . . . were no longer shy, but would come up to
my very feet without starting. Swift.

2. Reserved; coy; disinclined to familiar approach.
What makes you so shy, my good friend There's nobody loves you better
than I. Arbuthnot.
The embarrassed look of shy distress And maidenly shamefacedness.
Wordsworth.

3. Cautious; wary; suspicious.
I am very shy of using corrosive liquors in the preparation of
medicines. Boyle.
Princes are, by wisdom of state, somewhat shy of thier successors.
Sir H. Wotton.
To fight shy. See under Fight, v. i.

SHY
Shy, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Shied; p. pr. & vb. n. Shying.] Etym: [From
Shy, a.]

Defn: To start suddenly aside through fright or suspicion; -- said
especially of horses.

SHY
Shy, v. t.

Defn: To throw sidewise with a jerk; to fling; as, to shy a stone; to
shy a slipper. T. Hughes.

SHY
Shy, n.

1. A sudden start aside, as by a horse.

2. A side throw; a throw; a fling. Thackeray.
If Lord Brougham gets a stone in his hand, he must, it seems, have a
shy at somebody. Punch.

SHYLY
Shy"ly, adv.

Defn: In a shy or timid manner; not familiarly; with reserve.
[Written also shily.]

SHYNESS
Shy"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being shy. [Written also shiness.]
Frequency in heavenly contemplation is particularly important to
prevent a shyness bewtween God and thy soul. Baxter.

Syn.
 -- Bashfulness; reserve; coyness; timidity; diffidence. See
Bashfulness.

SHYSTER
Shy"ster, n. Etym: [Perh. from G. scheisse excrement.]

Defn: A trickish knave; one who carries on any business, especially
legal business, in a mean and dishonest way. [Slang, U.S.]

SI
Si. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A syllable applied, in solmization, to the note B; more
recently, to the seventh tone of any major diatonic scale. It was
added to Guido's scale by Le Maire about the end of the 17th century.

SIAGA
Si*a"ga, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The ahu, or jairou.

SIALOGOGUE
Si*al"o*gogue, n. Etym: [Gr. si`alon saliva + sialagogue.] (Med.)

Defn: An agent which promotes the flow of saliva.

SIAMANG
Si"a*mang`, n. Etym: [Malay siamang.] (Zool.)

Defn: A gibbon (Hylobates syndactylus), native of Sumatra. It has the
second and third toes partially united by a web.

SIAMESE
Si`a*mese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Siam, its native people, or their language.

SIAMESE
Si`a*mese`, n. sing. & pl.

1. A native or inhabitant of Siam; pl., the people of Siam.

2. sing.

Defn: The language of the Siamese.

SIB
Sib, n. Etym: [AS. sibb alliance, gesib a relative. sq. root289. See
Gossip.]

Defn: A blood relation. [Obs.] Nash.

SIB
Sib, a.

Defn: Related by blood; akin. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.
Your kindred is but . . . little sib to you. Chaucer.
[He] is no fairy birn, ne sib at all To elfs, but sprung of seed
terrestrial. Spenser.

SIBBENS
Sib"bens, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Med.)

Defn: A contagious disease, endemic in Scotland, resembling the yaws.
It is marked by ulceration of the throat and nose and by pustules and
soft fungous excrescences upon the surface of the body. In the
Orkneys the name is applied to the itch. [Written also sivvens.]

SIBERIAN
Si*be"ri*an, a. Etym: [From Siberia, Russ. Sibire.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Siberia, a region comprising all northern
Asia and belonging to Russia; as, a Siberian winter.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Siberia. Siberian crab (Bot.), the
Siberian crab apple. See Crab apple, under Crab.
 -- Siberian dog (Zool.), one of a large breed of dogs having erect
ears and the hair of the body and tail very long. It is distinguished
for endurance of fatigue when used for the purpose of draught.
 -- Siberian pea tree (Bot.), a small leguminous tree (Cragana
arborescens) with yellow flowers. It is a native of Siberia.

SIBILANCE; SIBILANCY
Sib"i*lance, Sib"i*lan*cy, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sibilant; sibilation.
Milton would not have avoided them for their sibilancy, he who wrote
. . . verses that hiss like Medusa's head in wrath. Lowell.

SIBILANT
Sib"i*lant, a. Etym: [L. sibilans, -antis, p. pr. of sibilare to
hiss: cf. F. sibilant.]

Defn: Making a hissing sound; uttered with a hissing sound; hissing;
as, s, z, sh, and zh, are sibilant elementary sounds.
 -- n.

Defn: A sibiliant letter.

SIBILATE
Sib"i*late, v. t. & i.

Defn: To pronounce with a hissing sound, like that of the letter s;
to mark with a character indicating such pronunciation.

SIBILATION
Sib`i*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. sibilatio.]

Defn: Utterance with a hissing sound; also, the sound itself; a hiss.
He, with a long, low sibilation, stared. Tennyson.

SIBILATORY
Sib"i*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Hissing; sibilant.

SIBILOUS
Sib"i*lous, a. Etym: [L. sibilus.]

Defn: Having a hissing sound; hissing; sibilant. [R.] Pennant.

SIBYL
Sib"yl, n. Etym: [L. sibylla, Gr.

1. (Class. Antiq.)

Defn: A woman supposed to be endowed with a spirit of prophecy.

Note: The number of the sibyls is variously stated by different
authors; but the opinion of Varro, that there were ten, is generally
adopted. They dwelt in various parts of Persia, Greece, and Italy.

2. A female fortune teller; a pythoness; a prophetess. "An old
highland sibyl." Sir W. Scott.

SIBYLIST
Sib"yl*ist, n.

Defn: One who believes in a sibyl or the sibylline prophecies.
Cudworth.

SIBYLLINE
Sib"yl*line, a. Etym: [L. sibyllinus.]

Defn: Pertaining to the sibyls; uttered, written, or composed by
sibyls; like the productions of sibyls. Sibylline books. (a) (Rom.
Antiq.) Books or documents of prophecies in verse concerning the fate
of the Roman empire, said to have been purchased by Tarquin the Proud
from a sibyl. (b) Certain Jewish and early Christian writings
purporting to have been prophetic and of sibylline origin. They date
from 100 b. c. to a. d. 500.

SIC
Sic, a.

Defn: Such. [Scot.]

SIC
Sic, adv. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Thus.

Note: This word is sometimes inserted in a quotation [sic], to call
attention to the fact that some remarkable or inaccurate expression,
misspelling, or the like, is literally reproduced.

SICAMORE
Sic"a*more, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sycamore.

SICCA
Sic"ca, n. Etym: [Ar. sikka.]

Defn: A seal; a coining die; -- used adjectively to designate the
silver currency of the Mogul emperors, or the Indian rupee of 192
grains. Sicca rupee, an East Indian coin, valued nominally at about
two shillings sterling, or fifty cents.

SICCATE
Sic"cate, v. t. Etym: [L. siccatus, p. p. of siccare to dry, fr.
siecus dry.]

Defn: To dry. [R.]

SICCATION
Sic*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. siccatio.]

Defn: The act or process of drying. [R.] Bailey.

SICCATIVE
Sic"ca*tive, a. Etym: [L. siccativus.]

Defn: Drying; causing to dry.
 -- n.

Defn: That which promotes drying.

SICCIFIC
Sic*cif"ic, a.Etym: [L. siccificus; siccus dry + facere to make. See
-fy.]

Defn: Causing dryness.

SICCITY
Sic"ci*ty, n. Etym: [L. siccitas, fr. siccus dry.]

Defn: Dryness; aridity; destitution of moisture. [Obs.]
The siccity and dryness of its flesh. Sir T. Browne.

SICE
Sice, n. Etym: [F. six, fr. L. sex six. See Six.]

Defn: The number six at dice.

SICER
Si"cer, n. Etym: [L. sicera. See Cider.]

Defn: A strong drink; cider. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SICH
Sich, a.

Defn: Such. [Obs. or Colloq.] Spenser.

SICILIAN
Si*cil"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sicily or its inhabitants. Sicilian
vespers, the great massacre of the French in Sicily, in the year
1282, on the evening of Easter Monday, at the hour of vespers.

SICILIAN
Si*cil"i*an, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Sicily.

SICILIANO
Si*ci`li*a"no, n. Etym: [It., Sicilian.]

Defn: A Sicilian dance, resembling the pastorale, set to a rather
slow and graceful melody in 12-8 or 6-8 measure; also, the music to
the dance.

SICILIENNE
Si`ci`lienne", n. Etym: [F., fem. of sicilien Sicilian.]

Defn: A kind of rich poplin.

SICK
Sick, a. [Compar. Sicker; superl. Sickest.] Etym: [OE. sek, sik, ill,
AS. seoc; akin to OS. siok, seoc, OFries. siak, D. ziek, G. siech,
OHG. sioh, Icel. sj, Sw. sjuk, Dan. syg, Goth. siuks ill, siukan to
be ill.]

1. Affected with disease of any kind; ill; indisposed; not in health.
See the Synonym under Illness.
Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever. Mark i. 30.
Behold them that are sick with famine. Jer. xiv. 18.

2. Affected with, or attended by, nausea; inclined to vomit; as, sick
at the stomach; a sick headache.

3. Having a strong dislike; disgusted; surfeited; -- with of; as, to
be sick of flattery.
He was not so sick of his master as of his work. L'Estrange.

4. Corrupted; imperfect; impaired; weakned.
So great is his antipathy against episcopacy, that, if a seraphim
himself should be a bishop, he would either find or make some sick
feathers in his wings. Fuller.
Sick bay (Naut.), an apartment in a vessel, used as the ship's
hospital.
 -- Sick bed, the bed upon which a person lies sick.
 -- Sick berth, an apartment for the sick in a ship of war.
 -- Sick headache (Med.), a variety of headache attended with
disorder of the stomach and nausea.
 -- Sick list, a list containing the names of the sick.
 -- Sick room, a room in which a person lies sick, or to which he is
confined by sickness.

Note: [These terms, sick bed, sick berth, etc., are also written both
hyphened and solid.]

Syn.
 -- Diseased; ill; disordered; distempered; indisposed; weak; ailing;
feeble; morbid.

SICK
Sick, n.

Defn: Sickness. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SICK
Sick, v. i.

Defn: To fall sick; to sicken. [Obs.] Shak.

SICK-BRAINED
Sick"-brained`, a.

Defn: Disordered in the brain.

SICKEN
Sick"en, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sickened; p. pr. & vb. n. Sickening.]

1. To make sick; to disease.
Raise this strength, and sicken that to death. Prior.

2. To make qualmish; to nauseate; to disgust; as, to sicken the
stomach.

3. To impair; to weaken. [Obs.] Shak.

SICKEN
Sick"en, v. i.

1. To become sick; to fall into disease.
The judges that sat upon the jail, and those that attended, sickened
upon it and died. Bacon.

2. To be filled to disgust; to be disgusted or nauseated; to be
filled with abhorrence or aversion; to be surfeited or satiated.
Mine eyes did sicken at the sight. Shak.

3. To become disgusting or tedious.
The toiling pleasure sickens into pain. Goldsmith.

4. To become weak; to decay; to languish.
All pleasures sicken, and all glories sink. Pope.

SICKENING
Sick"en*ing, a.

Defn: Causing sickness; specif., causing surfeit or disgust;
nauseating.
 -- Sick"en*ing*ly, adv.

SICKER
Sick"er, v. i. Etym: [AS. sicerian.] (Mining)

Defn: To percolate, trickle, or ooze, as water through a crack. [Also
written sigger, zigger, and zifhyr.] [Prov. Eng.]

SICKER; SIKER
Sick"er, Sik"er, a. Etym: [OE. siker; cf. OS. sikur, LG. seker, D.
zeker, Dan. sikker, OHG. sihhur, G. sicher; all fr. L. securus. See
Secure, Sure.]

Defn: Sure; certain; trusty. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Burns.
When he is siker of his good name. Chaucer.

SICKER; SIKER
Sick"er, Sik"er, adv.

Defn: Surely; certainly. [Obs.]
Believe this as siker as your creed. Chaucer.
Sicker, Willye, thou warnest well. Spenser.

SICKERLY; SIKERLY
Sick"er*ly, Sik"er*ly, adv.

Defn: Surely; securely. [Obs.]
But sikerly, withouten any fable. Chaucer.

SICKERNESS; SIKERNESS
Sick"er*ness, Sik"er*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sicker, or certain. [Obs.]
Chaucer. Spenser.

SICKISH
Sick"ish, a.

1. Somewhat sick or diseased.

2. Somewhat sickening; as, a sickish taste.
 -- Sick"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Sick"ish*ness, n.

SICKLE
Sic"kle, n. Etym: [OE. sikel, AS. sicol; akin to D. sikkel, G.
sichel, OHG. sihhila, Dan. segel, segl, L. secula, fr. secare to cut;
or perhaps from L. secula. See Saw a cutting instrument.]

1. A reaping instrument consisting of a steel blade curved into the
form of a hook, and having a handle fitted on a tang. The sickle has
one side of the blade notched, so as always to sharpen with a
serrated edge. Cf. Reaping hook, under Reap.
When corn has once felt the sickle, it has no more benefit from the
sunshine. Shak.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: A group of stars in the constellation Leo. See Illust. of Leo.
Sickle pod (Bot.), a kind of rock cress (Arabis Canadensis) having
very long curved pods.

SICKLEBILL
Sic"kle*bill`, n. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of three species of humming birds of the genus Eutoxeres,
native of Central and South America. They have a long and strongly
curved bill. Called also the sickle-billed hummer.
(b) A curlew.
(c) A bird of the genus Epimachus and allied genera.

SICKLED
Sic"kled, a.

Defn: Furnished with a sickle.

SICKLEMAN
Sic"kle*man, n.; pl. Sicklemen (.

Defn: One who uses a sickle; a reaper.
You sunburned sicklemen, of August weary. Shak.

SICKLER
Sic"kler, n.

Defn: One who uses a sickle; a sickleman; a reaper.

SICKLESS
Sick"less, a.

Defn: Free from sickness. [R.]
Give me long breath, young beds, and sickless ease. Marston.

SICKLEWORT
Sic"kle*wort`, n. Etym: [AS. sicolwyrt.] (Bot.)
(a) A plant of the genus Coronilla (C. scorpioides); -- so named from
its curved pods.
(b) The healall (Brunella vulgaris).

SICKLIED
Sick"lied, a.

Defn: Made sickly. See Sickly, v.

SICKLINESS
Sick"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sickly.

SICKLY
Sick"ly, a. [Compar. Sicklier; superl. Sickliest.]

1. Somewhat sick; disposed to illness; attended with disease; as, a
sickly body.
This physic but prolongs thy sickly days. Shak.

2. Producing, or tending to, disease; as, a sickly autumn; a sickly
climate. Cowper.

3. Appearing as if sick; weak; languid; pale.
The moon grows sickly at the sight of day. Dryden.
Nor torrid summer's sickly smile. Keble.

4. Tending to produce nausea; sickening; as, a sickly smell; sickly
sentimentality.

Syn.
 -- Diseased; ailing; infirm; weakly; unhealthy; healthless; weak;
feeble; languid; faint.

SICKLY
Sick"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sick manner or condition; ill.
My people sickly [with ill will] beareth our marriage. Chaucer.

SICKLY
Sick"ly, v. t.

Defn: To make sick or sickly; -- with over, and probably only in the
past participle. [R.]
Sicklied o'er with the pale cast of thought. Shak.
Sentiments sicklied over . . . with that cloying heaviness into which
unvaried sweetness is too apt to subside. Jeffrey.

SICKNESS
Sick"ness, n. Etym: [AS. seocness.]

1. The quality or state of being sick or diseased; illness; sisease
or malady.
I do lament the sickness of the king. Shak.
Trust not too much your now resistless charms; Those, age or sickness
soon or late disarms. Pope.

2. Nausea; qualmishness; as, sickness of stomach.

Syn.
 -- Illness; disease; malady. See Illness.

SICLE
Si"cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. silcus, Heb. shegel. See Shekel.]

Defn: A shekel. [Obs.]
The holy mother brought five sicles and a pair of turtledoves to
redeem the Lamb of God. Jer. Taylor.

SIDA
Si"da, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of malvaceous plants common in the tropics. All the
species are mucilaginous, and some have tough ligneous fibers which
are used as a substitute for hemp and flax. Balfour (Cyc. of India).

SIDDOW
Sid"dow, a.

Defn: Soft; pulpy. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SIDE
Side, n. Etym: [AS. side; akin to D. zijde, G. seite, OHG. sita,
Icel. si, Dan. side, Sw. sida; cf. AS. sid large, spacious, Icel. si
long, hanging.]

1. The margin, edge, verge, or border of a surface; especially (when
the thing spoken of is somewhat oblong in shape), one of the longer
edges as distinguished from the shorter edges, called ends; a
bounding line of a geometrical figure; as, the side of a field, of a
square or triangle, of a river, of a road, etc.

3. Any outer portion of a thing considered apart from, and yet in
relation to, the rest; as, the upper side of a sphere; also, any part
or position viewed as opposite to or contrasted with another; as,
this or that side.
Looking round on every side beheld A pathless desert. Milton.

4.
(a) One of the halves of the body, of an animals or man, on either
side of the mesial plane; or that which pertains to such a half; as,
a side of beef; a side of sole leather.
(b) The right or left part of the wall or trunk of the body; as, a
pain in the side.
One of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side. John xix. 34.

5. A slope or declivity, as of a hill, considered as opposed to
another slope over the ridge.
Along the side of yon small hill. Milton.

6. The position of a person or party regarded as opposed to another
person or party, whether as a rival or a foe; a body of advocates or
partisans; a party; hence, the interest or cause which one maintains
against another; a doctrine or view opposed to another.
God on our side, doubt not of victory. Shak.
We have not always been of the . . . same side in politics. Landor.
Sets the passions on the side of truth. Pope.

7. A line of descent traced through one parent as distinguished from
that traced through another.
To sit upon thy father David's throne, By mother's side thy father.
Milton.

8. Fig.: Aspect or part regarded as contrasted with some other; as,
the bright side of poverty. By the side of, close at hand; near to.
 -- Exterior side. (Fort.) See Exterior, and Illust. of Ravelin.
 -- Interior side (Fort.), the line drawn from the center of one
bastion to that of the next, or the line curtain produced to the two
oblique radii in front. H. L. Scott.
 -- Side by side, close together and abreast; in company or along
with.
 -- To choose sides, to select those who shall compete, as in a game,
on either side.
 -- To take sides, to attach one's self to, or give assistance to,
one of two opposing sides or parties.

SIDE
Side, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a side, or the sides; being on the side, or
toward the side; lateral.
One mighty squadron with a side wind sped. Dryden.

2. Hence, indirect; oblique; collateral; incidental; as, a side
issue; a side view or remark.
The law hath no side respect to their persons. Hooker.

3. Etym: [AS. sid. Cf Side, n.]

Defn: Long; large; extensive. [Obs. or Scot.] Shak.
His gown had side sleeves down to mid leg. Laneham.
Side action, in breech-loading firearms, a mechanism for operating
the breech block, which is moved by a lever that turns sidewise.
 -- Side arms, weapons worn at the side, as sword, bayonet, pistols,
etc.
 -- Side ax, an ax of which the handle is bent to one side.
 -- Side-bar rule (Eng. Law.), a rule authorized by the courts to be
granted by their officers as a matter of course, without formal
application being made to them in open court; -- so called because
anciently moved for by the attorneys at side bar, that is,
informally. Burril.
 -- Side box, a box or inclosed seat on the side of a theater.
To insure a side-box station at half price. Cowper.
-- Side chain, one of two safety chains connecting a tender with a
locomotive, at the sides.
 -- Side cut, a canal or road branching out from the main one. [U.S.]
-- Side dish, one of the dishes subordinate to the main course.
 -- Side glance, a glance or brief look to one side.
 -- Side hook (Carp.), a notched piece of wood for clamping a board
to something, as a bench.
 -- Side lever, a working beam of a side-lever engine.
 -- Side-lever engine, a marine steam engine having a working beam of
each side of the cylinder, near the bottom of the engine,
communicating motion to a crank that is above them.
 -- Side pipe (Steam Engine), a steam or exhaust pipe connecting the
upper and lower steam chests of the cylinder of a beam engine.
 -- Side plane, a plane in which the cutting edge of the iron is at
the side of the stock.
 -- Side posts (Carp.), posts in a truss, usually placed in pairs,
each post set at the same distance from the middle of the truss, for
supporting the principal rafters, hanging the tiebeam, etc.
 -- Side rod. (a) One of the rods which connect the piston-rod
crosshead with the side levers, in a side-lever engine. (b) See
Parallel rod, under Parallel.
 -- Side screw (Firearms), one of the screws by which the lock is
secured to the side of a firearm stock.
 -- Side table, a table placed either against the wall or aside from
the principal table.
 -- Side tool (Mach.), a cutting tool, used in a lathe or planer,
having the cutting edge at the side instead of at the point.
 -- Side wind, a wind from one side; hence, an indirect attack, or
indirect means. Wright.

SIDE
Side, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sided; p. pr.& vb. n. Siding.]

1. To lean on one side. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. To embrace the opinions of one party, or engage in its interest,
in opposition to another party; to take sides; as, to side with the
ministerial party.
All side in parties, and begin the attack. Pope.

SIDE
Side, v. t.

1. To be or stand at the side of; to be on the side toward. [Obs.]
His blind eye that sided Paridell. Spenser.

2. To suit; to pair; to match. [Obs.] Clarendon.

3. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: To work (a timber or rib) to a certain thickness by trimming
the sides.

4. To furnish with a siding; as, to side a house.

SIDEBOARD
Side"board`, n.

Defn: A piece of dining-room furniture having compartments and
shelves for keeping or displaying articles of table service.
At a stately sideboard, by the wine, That fragrant smell diffused.
Milton.

SIDEBONE
Side"bone`, n. (Far.)

Defn: A morbid growth or deposit of bony matter and at the sides of
the coronet and coffin bone of a horse. J. H. Walsh.

SIDE-CHAIN THEORY
Side"-chain` the`o*ry. (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A theory proposed by Ehrlich as a chemical explanation of
immunity phenomena. In brief outline it is as follows: Animal cells
and bacteria are complex aggregations of molecules, which are
themselves complex. Complex molecules react with one another through
certain of their side chains, but only when these side chains have a
definite correspondence in structure (this account for the specific
action of antitoxins).

SIDED
Sid"ed, a.

Defn: Having (such or so many) sides; -- used in composition; as,
one-sided; many-sided.

SIDEFLASH
Side"flash`, n. (Elec.)

Defn: A disruptive discharge between a conductor traversed by an
oscillatory current of high frequency (as lightning) and neighboring
masses of metal, or between different parts of the same conductor.

SIDEHILL
Side"hill`, n.

Defn: The side or slope of a hill; sloping ground; a descent. [U. S.]

SIDE LINE
Side line.

1.
 (a) A line pert. or attached to the side of a thing.
 (b) Specif., a line for hobbling an animal by connecting the fore
and the hind feet of the same side.

2.
 (a) A line of goods sold in addition to one's principal articles of
trade; a course of business pursued aside from one's regular
occupation.
 (b) A secondary road; esp., a byroad at right angles to a main road.
[Canada]

SIDELING
Side"ling, adv. Etym: [OE. sideling, fr. side side. See Side, and cf.
Sidelong, Headlong.]

Defn: Sidelong; on the side; laterally; also, obliquely; askew.
A fellow nailed up maps . . . some sideling, and others upside down.
Swift.

SIDELING
Side"ling, a.

Defn: Inclining to one sidel directed toward one side; sloping;
inclined; as, sideling ground.

SIDELONG
Side"long`, adv. Etym: [See Sideling, adv.]

1. Laterally; obliquely; in the direction of the side.

2. On the side; as, to lay a thing sidelong.

Note: [See Sideling, adv. ] Evelyn.

SIDELONG
Side"long`, a.

Defn: Lateral; oblique; not being directly in front; as, a sidelong
glance.
The bashful virgin's sidelong looks of love. Goldsmith.

SIDEPIECE
Side"piece`, n. (Joinery)

Defn: The jamb, or cheek, of an opening in a wall, as of door or
window.

SIDER
Sid"er, n.

Defn: One who takes a side.

SIDER
Si"der, n.

Defn: Cider. [Obs.]

SIDERAL
Sid"er*al, a. Etym: [L. sideralis. See Sidereal.]

1. Relating to the stars.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: Affecting unfavorably by the supposed influence of the stars;
baleful. "Sideral blast." Milton.

SIDERATED
Sid"er*a`ted, a. Etym: [L. sideratus, p. p. of siderari to be blasted
by a constellation, fr. sidus, sideris, a constellation.]

Defn: Planet-struck; blasted. [Obs.]

SIDERATION
Sid`er*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. sideratio.]

Defn: The state of being siderated, or planet-struck; esp., blast in
plants; also, a sudden and apparently causeless stroke of disease, as
in apoplexy or paralysis. [Obs.] Ray.

SIDEREAL
Si*de"re*al, a. Etym: [L. sidereus, from sidus, sideris, a
constellation, a star. Cf. Sideral, Consider, Desire.]

1. Relating to the stars; starry; astral; as, sidereal astronomy.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: Measuring by the apparent motion of the stars; designated,
marked out, or accompanied, by a return to the same position in
respect to the stars; as, the sidereal revolution of a planet; a
sidereal day. Sidereal clock, day, month, year. See under Clock, Day,
etc.
 -- Sideral time, time as reckoned by sideral days, or, taking the
sidereal day as the unit, the time elapsed since a transit of the
vernal equinox, reckoned in parts of a sidereal day. This is,
strictly, apparent sidereal time, mean sidereal time being reckoned
from the transit, not of the true, but of the mean, equinoctial
point.

SIDEREALIZE
Si*de"re*al*ize, v. t.

Defn: To elevate to the stars, or to the region of the stars; to
etherealize.
German literature transformed, siderealized, as we see it in Goethe,
reckons Winckelmann among its initiators. W. Pater.

SIDEREOUS
Si*de"re*ous, a. Etym: [L. sidereus.]

Defn: Sidereal. [Obs.]

SIDERITE
Sid"er*ite, n. Etym: [L. sideritis loadstone, Gr.

1. (Min.)
(a) Carbonate of iron, an important ore of iron occuring generally in
cleavable masses, but also in rhombohedral crystals. It is of a light
yellowish brown color. Called also sparry iron, spathic iron.
(b) A meteorite consisting solely of metallic iron.
(c) An indigo-blue variety of quartz.
(d) Formerly, magnetic iron ore, or loadstone.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genus Sideritis; ironwort.

SIDEROGRAPHIC; SIDEROGRAPHICAL
Sid`er*o*graph"ic, Sid`er*o*graph"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to siderography; executed by engraved plates
of steel; as, siderographic art; siderographic impressions.

SIDEROGRAPHIST
Sid`er*og"ra*phist, n.

Defn: One skilled in siderography.

SIDEROGRAPHY
Sid`er*og"ra*phy, n. Etym: [Gr. -graphy.]

Defn: The art or practice of steel engraving; especially, the
process, invented by Perkins, of multiplying facsimiles of an
engraved steel plate by first rolling over it, when hardened, a soft
steel cylinder, and then rolling the cylinder, when hardened, over a
soft steel plate, which thus becomes a facsimile of the original. The
process has been superseded by electrotypy.

SIDEROLITE
Sid"er*o*lite, n. Etym: [Gr. -lite.]

Defn: A kind of meteorite. See under Meteorite.

SIDEROMANCY
Sid"er*o*man`cy, n. Etym: [Gr. -mancy.]

Defn: Divination by burning straws on red-hot iron, and noting the
manner of their burning. Craig.

SIDEROSCOPE
Sid"er*o*scope, n. Etym: [Gr. -scope.]

Defn: An instrument for detecting small quantities of iron in any
substance by means of a very delicate combination of magnetic
needles.

SIDEROSIS
Sid`e*ro"sis, n.Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A sort of pneumonia occuring in iron workers, produced by the
inhalation of particles of iron.

SIDEROSTAT
Sid"er*o*stat, n. Etym: [L. sidus, sideris, a star + Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: An apparatus consisting essentially of a mirror moved by
clockwork so as to throw the rays of the sun or a star in a fixed
direction; -- a more general term for heliostat.

SIDEROXYLON
Sid`e*rox"y*lon, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of tropical sapotaceous trees noted for their very hard
wood; ironwood.

SIDESADDLE
Side"sad`dle, n.

Defn: A saddle for women, in which the rider sits with both feet on
one side of the animal mounted. Sidesaddle flower (Bot.), a plant
with hollow leaves and curiously shaped flowers; -- called also
huntsman's cup. See Sarracenia.

SIDE SLIP
Side slip.

Defn: See Skid, below.

SIDE-SLIP
Side"-slip`, v. i.

Defn: See Skid, below.

SIDESMAN
Sides"man, n.; pl. Sidesmen (.

1. A party man; a partisan. Milton.

2. An assistant to the churchwarden; a questman.

SIDE-TAKING
Side"-tak`ing, n.

Defn: A taking sides, as with a party, sect, or faction. Bp. Hall.

SIDETRACK
Side"track`, v. t.  [imp. & p. p. Sidetracked; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sidetracking.]

1. (Railroads) To transfer to a siding from a main line of track.

2.  Hence, fig., to divert or reduce to a position or condition that
is relatively secondary or subordinate in activity, importance,
effectiveness, or the like; to switch off; to turn aside, as from a
purpose. [Colloq.]

Such a project was, in fact, sidetracked in favor of the census of
school children.
Pop. Sci. Monthly.

SIDEWALK
Side"walk`, n.

Defn: A walk for foot passengers at the side of a street or road; a
foot pavement. [U.S.]

SIDEWAYS
Side"ways`, adv.

Defn: Toward the side; sidewise.
A second refraction made sideways. Sir I. Newton.
His beard, a good palm's length, at least, . . . Shot sideways, like
a swallow's wings. Longfellow.

SIDE-WHEEL
Side"-wheel`, a.

Defn: Having a paddle wheel on each side; -- said of steam vessels;
as, a side-wheel steamer.

SIDEWINDER
Side"wind`er, n.

1. (Zool.) See Horned rattler, under Horned.

2. A heavy swinging blow from the side, which disables an adversary.
[Slang.]

SIDEWISE
Side"wise`, adv.

Defn: On or toward one side; laterally; sideways.
I saw them mask their awful glance Sidewise meek in gossamer lids.
Emerson.

SIDING
Sid"ing, n.

1. Attaching one's self to a party.

2. A side track, as a railroad; a turnout.

3. (Carp.)

Defn: The covering of the outside wall of a frame house, whether made
of weatherboards, vertical boarding with cleats, shingles, or the
like.

4. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: The thickness of a rib or timber, measured, at right angles
with its side, across the curved edge; as, a timber having a siding
of ten inches.

SIDLE
Si"dle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sidled; p. pr. & vb. n. Sidling.] Etym:
[From Side.]

Defn: To go or move with one side foremost; to move sidewise; as, to
sidle through a crowd or narrow opening. Swift.
He . . . then sidled close to the astonished girl. Sir W. Scott.

SIEGE
Siege, n. Etym: [OE. sege, OF. siege, F. siege a seat, a siege; cf.
It. seggia, seggio, zedio, a seat, asseggio, assedio, a siege, F.
assieger to besiege, It. & LL. assediare, L. obsidium a siege,
besieging; all ultimately fr. L. sedere to sit. See Sit, and cf. See,
n.]

1. A seat; especially, a royal seat; a throne. [Obs.] "Upon the very
siege of justice." Shak.
A stately siege of sovereign majesty, And thereon sat a woman
gorgeous gay. Spenser.
In our great hall there stood a vacant chair . . . And Merlin called
it "The siege perilous." Tennyson.

2. Hence, place or situation; seat. [Obs.]
Ah! traitorous eyes, come out of your shameless siege forever.
Painter (Palace of Pleasure).

3. Rank; grade; station; estimation. [Obs.]
I fetch my life and being From men of royal siege. Shak.

4. Passage of excrements; stool; fecal matter. [Obs.]
The siege of this mooncalf. Shak.

5. The sitting of an army around or before a fortified place for the
purpose of compelling the garrison to surrender; the surrounding or
investing of a place by an army, and approaching it by passages and
advanced works, which cover the besiegers from the enemy's fire. See
the Note under Blockade.

6. Hence, a continued attempt to gain possession.
Love stood the siege, and would not yield his breast. Dryden.

7. The floor of a glass-furnace.

8. A workman's bench. Knught. Siege gun, a heavy gun for siege
operations.
 -- Siege train, artillery adapted for attacking fortified places.

SIEGE
Siege, v. t.

Defn: To besiege; to beset. [R.]
Through all the dangers that can siege The life of man. Buron.

SIEGEWORK
Siege"work`, n.

Defn: A temporary fort or parallel where siege guns are mounted.

SIEMENS-MARTIN PROCESS
Sie"mens-Mar`tin proc"ess.

Defn: See Open-hearth process, etc., under Open.

SIEMENS-MARTIN STEEL
Sie"mens-Mar"tin steel.

Defn: See Open-hearth steel, under Open.

SIENITE
Si"e*nite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Syenite.

SIENITIC
Si`e*nit"ic, a.

Defn: See Syenitic.

SIENNA
Si*en"na, n. Etym: [It. terra di Siena, fr. Siena in Italy.] (Chem.)

Defn: Clay that is colored red or brown by the oxides of iron or
manganese, and used as a pigment. It is used either in the raw state
or burnt. Burnt sienna, sienna made of a much redder color by the
action of fire.
 -- Raw sienna, sienna in its natural state, of a transparent
yellowish brown color.

SIENNESE
Si`en*nese", a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sienna, a city of Italy.

SIERRA
Si*er"ra, n. Etym: [Sp., properly, a saw, fr. L. serra a saw. See
Serrate.]

Defn: A ridge of mountain and craggy rocks, with a serrated or
irregular outline; as, the Sierra Nevada.
The wild sierra overhead. Whitter.

SIESTA
Si*es"ta, n. Etym: [Sp., probably fr. L. sessitare to sit much or
long, v. freq. of sedere, sessum, to sit. See Sit.]

Defn: A short sleep taken about the middle of the day, or after
dinner; a midday nap.

SIEUR
Sieur, n. Etym: [F., abbrev. from seigneur. Cf. Monsieur, Seignior.]

Defn: Sir; -- a title of respect used by the French.

SIEVA
Sie"va, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A small variety of the Lima bean (Phaseolus lunatus).

SIEVE
Sieve, n. Etym: [OE. sive, AS. sife; akin to D. zeef, zift, OHG. sib,
G. sieb. sq. root151a. Cf. Sift.]

1. A utensil for separating the finer and coarser parts of a
pulverized or granulated substance from each other. It consist of a
vessel, usually shallow, with the bottom perforated, or made of hair,
wire, or the like, woven in meshes. "In a sieve thrown and sifted."
Chaucer.

2. A kind of coarse basket. Simmonds. Sieve cells (Bot.), cribriform
cells. See under Cribriform.

SIFAC
Si"fac, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The white indris of Madagascar. It is regarded by the natives
as sacred.

SIFFLEMENT
Sif"fle*ment, n. Etym: [F., a whistling or hissing.]

Defn: The act of whistling or hissing; a whistling sound; sibilation.
[Obs.] A. Brewer.

SIFILET
Sif"i*let, n. Etym: [Cf. F. siflet.] (Zool.)

Defn: The six-shafted bird of paradise. See Paradise bird, under
Paradise.

SIFT
Sift, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sifted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sifting.] Etym:
[AS. siftan, from sife sieve. sq. root151a. See Sieve.]

1. To separate with a sieve, as the fine part of a substance from the
coarse; as, to sift meal or flour; to sift powder; to sift sand or
lime.

2. To separate or part as if with a sieve.
When yellow sands are sifted from below, The glittering billows give
a golden show. Dryden.

3. To examine critically or minutely; to scrutinize.
Sifting the very utmost sentence and syllable. Hooker.
Opportunity I here have had To try thee, sift thee. Milton.
Let him but narrowly sift his ideas. I. Taylor.
To sift out, to search out with care, as if by sifting.

SIFTER
Sift"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, sifts.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any lamellirostral bird, as a duck or goose; -- so called
because it sifts or strains its food from the water and mud by means
of the lamell

SIG
Sig, n. Etym: [Akin to AS. sigan to fall. sq. root151a. See Sink, v.
t.]

Defn: Urine. [Prov. Eng.]

SIGAULTIAN
Si*gaul"ti*an, a. (Surg.)

Defn: Pertaining to Sigault, a French physician. See Symphyseotomy.

SIGGER
Sig"ger, v. i.

Defn: Same as Sicker. [Prov. Eng.]

SIGH
Sigh, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sighed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sighing.] Etym:
[OE. sighen, si; cf. also OE. siken, AS. sican, and OE. sighten, si,
sichten, AS. siccettan; all, perhaps, of imitative origin.]

1. To inhale a larger quantity of air than usual, and immediately
expel it; to make a deep single audible respiration, especially as
the result or involuntary expression of fatigue, exhaustion, grief,
sorrow, or the like.

2. Hence, to lament; to grieve.
He sighed deeply in his spirit. Mark viii. 12.

3. To make a sound like sighing.
And the coming wind did roar more loud, And the sails did sigh like
sedge. Coleridge.
The winter winds are wearily sighing. Tennyson.

Note: An extraordinary pronunciation of this word as sith is still
heard in England and among the illiterate in the United States.

SIGH
Sigh, v. t.

1. To exhale (the breath) in sighs.
Never man sighed truer breath. Shak.

2. To utter sighs over; to lament or mourn over.
Ages to come, and men unborn, Shall bless her name, and sigh her
fate. Pior.

3. To express by sighs; to utter in or with sighs.
They . . . sighed forth proverbs. Shak.
The gentle swain . . . sighs back her grief. Hoole.

SIGH
Sigh, n. Etym: [OE. sigh; cf. OE. sik. See Sigh, v. i.]

1. A deep and prolonged audible inspiration or respiration of air, as
when fatigued or grieved; the act of sighing.
I could drive the boat with my sighs. Shak.

2. Figuratively, a manifestation of grief; a lan
With their sighs the air Frequenting, sent from hearts contrite.
Milton.

SIGH-BORN
Sigh"-born`, a.

Defn: Sorrowful; mournful. [R.] "Sigh-born thoughts." De Quincey.

SIGHER
Sigh"er, n.

Defn: One who sighs.

SIGHING
Sigh"ing, a.

Defn: Uttering sighs; grieving; lamenting. "Sighing millions."
Cowper.
 -- Sigh"ing*ly, adv.

SIGHT
Sight, n. Etym: [OE. sight, si, siht, AS. siht, gesiht, gesih,
gesieh, gesyh; akin to D. gezicht, G. sicht, gesicht, Dan. sigte, Sw.
sigt, from the root of E. see. See See, v. t.]

1. The act of seeing; perception of objects by the eye; view; as, to
gain sight of land.
A cloud received him out of their sight. Acts. i. 9.

2. The power of seeing; the faculty of vision, or of perceiving
objects by the instrumentality of the eyes.
Thy sight is young, And thou shalt read when mine begin to dazzle.
Shak.
O loss of sight, of thee I most complain! Milton.

3. The state of admitting unobstructed vision; visibility; open view;
region which the eye at one time surveys; space through which the
power of vision extends; as, an object within sight.

4. A spectacle; a view; a show; something worth seeing.
Moses said, I will now turn aside and see this great sight, why the
bush is not burnt. Ex. iii. 3.
They never saw a sight so fair. Spenser.

5. The instrument of seeing; the eye.
Why cloud they not their sights Shak.

6. Inspection; examination; as, a letter intended for the sight of
only one person.

7. Mental view; opinion; judgment; as, in their sight it was
harmless. Wake.
That which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight
of God. Luke xvi. 15.

8. A small aperture through which objects are to be seen, and by
which their direction is settled or ascertained; as, the sight of a
quadrant.
Thier eyes of fire sparking through sights of steel. Shak.

9. A small piece of metal, fixed or movable, on the breech, muzzle,
center, or trunnion of a gun, or on the breech and the muzzle of a
rifle, pistol, etc., by means of which the eye is guided in aiming.
Farrow.

10. In a drawing, picture, etc., that part of the surface, as of
paper or canvas, which is within the frame or the border or margin.
In a frame or the like, the open space, the opening.

11. A great number, quantity, or sum; as, a sight of money. [Now
colloquial]

Note: Sight in this last sense was formerly employed in the best
usage. "A sight of lawyers." Latimer.
A wonder sight of flowers. Gower.
At sight, as soon as seen, or presented to sight; as, a draft payable
at sight: to read Greek at sight; to shoot a person at sight.
 -- Front sight (Firearms), the sight nearest the muzzle.
 -- Open sight. (Firearms) (a) A front sight through which the
objects aimed at may be seen, in distinction from one that hides the
object. (b) A rear sight having an open notch instead of an aperture.
 -- Peep sight, Rear sight. See under Peep, and Rear.
 -- Sight draft, an order, or bill of exchange, directing the payment
of money at sight.
 -- To take sight, to take aim; to look for the purpose of directing
a piece of artillery, or the like.

Syn.
 -- Vision; view; show; spectacle; representation; exhibition.

SIGHT
Sight, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sighted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sighting.]

1. To get sight of; to see; as, to sight land; to sight a wreck.
Kane.

2. To look at through a sight; to see accurately; as, to sight an
object, as a star.

3. To apply sights to; to adjust the sights of; also, to give the
proper elevation and direction to by means of a sight; as, to sight a
rifle or a cannon.

SIGHT
Sight, v. i. (Mil.)

Defn: To take aim by a sight.

SIGHTED
Sight"ed, a.

Defn: Having sight, or seeing, in a particular manner; -- used in
composition; as, long-sighted, short-sighted, quick-sighted, sharp-
sighted, and the like.

SIGHTFUL
Sight"ful, a.

Defn: Easily or clearly seen; distinctly visible; perspicuous. [Obs.]
Testament of Love.

SIGHTFULNESS
Sight"ful*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being sightful; perspicuity. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

SIGHT-HOLE
Sight"-hole`, n.

Defn: A hole for looking through; a peephole. "Stop all sight-holes."
Shak.

SIGHTING
Sight"ing, a & n.

Defn: from Sight, v. t. Sighting shot, a shot made to ascertain
whether the sights of a firearm are properly adjusted; a trial shot.

SIGHTLESS
Sight"less, a.

1. Wanting sight; without sight; blind.
Of all who blindly creep or sightless soar. Pope.

2. That can not be seen; invisible. [Obs.]
The sightless couriers of the air. Shak.

3. Offensive or unpleasing to the eye; unsightly; as, sightless
stains. [R.] Shak.
 -- Sight"less*ly, adv.- Sight"less*ness, n.

SIGHTLINESS
Sight"li*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being sightly; comeliness; conspicuousness.

SIGHTLY
Sight"ly, a.

1. Pleasing to the sight; comely. "Many brave, sightly horses."
L'Estrange.

2. Open to sight; conspicuous; as, a house stands in a sightly place.

SIGHTPROOF
Sight"proof`, a.

Defn: Undiscoverable to sight.
Hidden in their own sightproof bush. Lowell.

SIGHT-SEEING
Sight"-see`ing, a.

Defn: Engaged in, or given to, seeing sights; eager for novelties or
curiosities.

SIGHT-SEEING
Sight"-see`ing, n.

Defn: The act of seeing sights; eagerness for novelties or
curiosities.

SIGHT-SEER
Sight"-se`er, n.

Defn: One given to seeing sights or noted things, or eager for
novelties or curiosities.

SIGHT-SHOT
Sight"-shot`, n.

Defn: Distance to which the sight can reach or be thrown. [R.]
Cowley.

SIGHTSMAN
Sights"man, n.; pl. Sightsmen (. (Mus.)

Defn: One who reads or performs music readily at first sight. [R.]
Busby.

SIGIL
Sig"il, n. Etym: [L. sigillum. See Seal a stamp.]

Defn: A seal; a signature. Dryden.
Of talismans and sigils knew the power. Pope.

SIGILLARIA
Sig`il*la"ri*a, n. pl. Etym: [L., from sigillum a seal. See Sigil.]
(Rom. Antic.)

Defn: Little images or figures of earthenware exposed for sale, or
given as presents, on the last two days of the Saturnalia; hence, the
last two, or the sixth and seventh, days of the Saturnalia.

SIGILLARIA
Sig`il*la"ri*a, n. Etym: [NL., fem sing. fr. L. sigillum a seal.]
(Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of fossil trees principally found in the coal
formation; -- so named from the seallike leaf scars in vertical rows
on the surface.

SIGILLARID
Sig`il*la"rid, n. (Paleon.)

Defn: One of an extinct family of cryptagamous trees, including the
genus Sigillaria and its allies.

SIGILLATED
Sig"il*la`ted, a. Etym: [L. sigillatus adorned with little images.]

Defn: Decorated by means of stamps; -- said of pottery.

SIGILLATIVE
Sig"il*la*tive, a. Etym: [L. sigillum a seal: cf. OF. sigillatif.]

Defn: Fit to seal; belonging to a seal; composed of wax. [R.]

SIGILLUM
Si*gil"lum, n.; pl. Sigilla. Etym: [L.] (Rom. & Old Eng. Law)

Defn: A seal.

SIGLA
Sig"la, n. pl. Etym: [L.]

Defn: The signs, abbreviations, letters, or characters standing for
words, shorthand, etc., in ancient manuscripts, or on coins, medals,
etc. W. Savage.

SIGMA
Sig"ma, n.; pl. Sigmas. Etym: [L., from Gr.

Defn: The Greek letter S, or s). It originally had the form of the
English C.

SIGMODONT
Sig"mo*dont, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of a tribe (Sigmodontes) of rodents which includes all
the indigenous rats and mice of America. So called from the form of
the ridges of enamel on the crowns of the worn molars. Also used
adjectively.

SIGMOID; SIGMOIDAL
Sig"moid, Sig*moid"al, a. Etym: [Gr. sigmoide.]

Defn: Curved in two directions, like the letter S, or the Greek s.
Sigmoid flexure (Anat.), the last curve of the colon before it
terminates in the rectum. See Illust. under Digestive.
 -- Sigmoid valves. (Anat.) See Semilunar valves, under Semilunar.

SIGMOIDALLY
Sig*moid"al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sigmoidal manner.

SIGN
Sign, n. Etym: [F. signe, L. signum; cf. AS. segen, segn, a sign,
standard, banner, also fr. L. signum. Cf. Ensign, Resign, Seal a
stamp, Signal, Signet.]

Defn: That by which anything is made known or represented; that which
furnishes evidence; a mark; a token; an indication; a proof.
Specifically:
(a) A remarkable event, considered by the ancients as indicating the
will of some deity; a prodigy; an omen.
(b) An event considered by the Jews as indicating the divine will, or
as manifesting an interposition of the divine power for some special
end; a miracle; a wonder.
Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God.
Rom. xv. 19.
It shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither hearken
to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of
the latter sign. Ex. iv. 8.

(c) Something serving to indicate the existence, or preserve the
memory, of a thing; a token; a memorial; a monument.
What time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men, and they
became a sign. Num. xxvi. 10.

(d) Any symbol or emblem which prefigures, typifles, or represents,
an idea; a type; hence, sometimes, a picture.
The holy symbols, or signs, are not barely significative; but what
they represent is as certainly delivered to us as the symbols
themselves. Brerewood.
Saint George of Merry England, the sign of victory. Spenser.

(e) A word or a character regarded as the outward manifestation of
thought; as, words are the sign of ideas.
(f) A motion, an action, or a gesture by which a thought is
expressed, or a command or a wish made known.
They made signs to his father, how he would have him called. Luke i.
62.

(g) Hence, one of the gestures of pantomime, or of a language of a
signs such as those used by the North American Indians, or those used
by the deaf and dumb.

Note: Educaters of the deaf distinguish between natural signs, which
serve for communicating ideas, and methodical, or systematic, signs,
adapted for the dictation, or the rendering, of written language,
word by word; and thus the signs are to be distinguished from the
manual alphabet, by which words are spelled on the fingers.
(h) A military emblem carried on a banner or a standard. Milton.
(i) A lettered board, or other conspicuous notice, placed upon or
before a building, room, shop, or office to advertise the business
there transacted, or the name of the person or firm carrying it on; a
publicly displayed token or notice.
The shops were, therefore, distinguished by painted signs, which gave
a gay and grotesque aspect to the streets. Macaulay.
(j) (Astron.)

Defn: The twelfth part of the ecliptic or zodiac.

Note: The signs are reckoned from the point of intersection of the
ecliptic and equator at the vernal equinox, and are named,
respectively, Aries (Taurus (Gemini (II), Cancer (Leo (Virgo (Libra
(Scorpio (Sagittarius (Capricornus (Aquarius (Pisces (
(k) (Alg.) A character indicating the relation of quantities, or an
operation performed upon them; as, the sign + (plus); the sign --
(minus); the sign of division ?, and the like.
(l) (Med.) An objective evidence of disease; that is, one appreciable
by some one other than the patient.

Note: The terms symptom and and sign are often used synonymously; but
they may be discriminated. A sign differs from a symptom in that the
latter is perceived only by the patient himself. The term sign is
often further restricted to the purely local evidences of disease
afforded by direct examination of the organs involved, as
distinguished from those evidence of general disturbance afforded by
observation of the temperature, pulse, etc. In this sense it is often
called physical sign.
(m) (Mus.) Any character, as a flat, sharp, dot, etc.
(n) (Theol.) That which, being external, stands for, or signifies,
something internal or spiritual; -- a term used in the Church of
England in speaking of an ordinance considered with reference to that
which it represents.
An outward and visible sign of an inward and spiritual grace. Bk. of
Common Prayer.

Note: See the Table of Arbitrary Signs, p. 1924. Sign manual. (a)
(Eng. Law) The royal signature superscribed at the top of bills of
grants and letter patent, which are then sealed with the privy signet
or great seal, as the case may be, to complete their validity. (b)
The signature of one's name in one's own handwriting. Craig. Tomlins.
Wharton.

Syn.
 -- Token; mark; note; symptom; indication; signal; symbol; type;
omen; prognostic; presage; manifestation. See Emblem.

SIGN
Sign, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Signed; p. pr. & vb. n. Signing.] Etym:
[OE. seinen to bless, originally, to make the sign of the cross over;
in this sense fr. ASS. segnian (from segn, n.), or OF. seignier, F.
signer, to mark, to sign (in sense 3), fr. L. signare to mark, set a
mark upon, from signum. See Sign, n.]

1. To represent by a sign; to make known in a typical or emblematic
manner, in distinction from speech; to signify.
I signed to Browne to make his retreat. Sir W. Scott.

2. To make a sign upon; to mark with a sign.
We receive this child into the congregation of Christ's flock, and do
sign him with the sign of the cross. Bk. of Com Prayer.

3. To affix a signature to; to ratify by hand or seal; to subscribe
in one's own handwriting.
Inquire the Jew's house out, give him this deed, And let him sign it.
Shak.

4. To assign or convey formally; -- used with away.

5. To mark; to make distinguishable. Shak.

SIGN
Sign, v. i.

1. To be a sign or omen. [Obs.] Shak.

2. To make a sign or signal; to communicate directions or
intelligence by signs.

3. To write one's name, esp. as a token of assent, responsibility, or
obligation.

SIGNABLE
Sign"a*ble, a.

Defn: Suitable to be signed; requiring signature; as, a legal
document signable by a particular person.

SIGNAL
Sig"nal, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. signale, fr. L. signum. See Sign, n.]

1. A sign made for the purpose of giving notice to a person of some
occurence, command, or danger; also, a sign, event, or watchword,
which has been agreed upon as the occasion of concerted action.
All obeyed The wonted signal and superior voice Of this great
potentate. Milton.

2. A token; an indication; a foreshadowing; a sign.
The weary sun . . . Gives signal of a goodly day to-morrow. Shak.
There was not the least signal of the calamity to be seen. De Foc.

SIGNAL
Sig"nal, a. Etym: [From signal, n.: cf. F. signale.]

1. Noticeable; distinguished from what is ordinary; eminent;
remarkable; memorable; as, a signal exploit; a signal service; a
signal act of benevolence.
As signal now in low, dejected state As erst in highest, behold him
where he lies. Milton.

2. Of or pertaining to signals, or the use of signals in conveying
information; as, a signal flag or officer. The signal service, a
bureau of the government (in the United States connected with the War
Department) organized to collect from the whole country simultaneous
raports of local meteorological conditions, upon comparison of which
at the central office, predictions concerning the weather are
telegraphed to various sections, where they are made known by signals
publicly displayed.
 -- Signal station, the place where a signal is displayed;
specifically, an observation office of the signal service.

Syn.
 -- Eminent; remarkable; memorable; extraordinary; notable;
conspicuous.

SIGNAL
Sig"nal, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Signaled ( or Signalled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Signaling or Signalling.]

1. To communicate by signals; as, to signal orders.

2. To notify by a signals; to make a signal or signals to; as, to
signal a fleet to anchor. M. Arnold.

SIGNALIST
Sig"nal*ist, n.

Defn: One who makes signals; one who communicates intelligence by
means of signals.

SIGNALITY
Sig*nal"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being signal or remarkable. [Obs.] Sir
T. Browne.

SIGNALIZE
Sig"nal*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Signalized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Signalizing.] Etym: [From Signal, a.]

1. To make signal or eminent; to render distinguished from what is
common; to distinguish.
It is this passion which drives men to all the ways we see in use of
signalizing themselves. Burke.

2. To communicate with by means of a signal; as, a ship signalizes
its consort.

3. To indicate the existence, presence, or fact of, by a signal; as,
to signalize the arrival of a steamer.

SIGNALLY
Sig"nal*ly, adv.

Defn: In a signal manner; eminently.

SIGNALMAN
Sig"nal*man, n.; pl. -men (.

Defn: A man whose business is to manage or display signals;
especially, one employed in setting the signals by which railroad
trains are run or warned.

SIGNALMENT
Sig"nal*ment, n.

Defn: The act of signaling, or of signalizing; hence, description by
peculiar, appropriate, or characteristic marks. Mrs. Browning.

SIGNATE
Sig"nate, a. Etym: [L. signatus, p. p. See Sign, v. t.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having definite color markings.

SIGNATION
Sig*na"tion, n. Etym: [L. signatio. See Sign, v. t.]

Defn: Sign given; marking. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SIGNATORY
Sig"na*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. signatorius.]

1. Relating to a seal; used in sealing. [Obs.] Bailey.

2. Signing; joining or sharing in a signature; as, signatory powers.

SIGNATORY
Sig"na*to*ry, n.; pl. -ries (.

Defn: A signer; one who signs or subscribes; as, a conference of
signatories.

SIGNATURE
Sig"na*ture, n. Etym: [F. (cf. It. signatura, segnatura, Sp. & LL.
signatura), from L. signare, signatum. See Sign, v. t.]

1. A sign, stamp, or mark impressed, as by a seal.
The brain, being well furnished with various traces, signatures, and
images. I. Watts.
The natural and indelible signature of God, which human souls . . .
are supposed to be stamped with. Bentley.

2. Especially, the name of any person, written with his own hand,
employed to signify that the writing which precedes accords with his
wishes or intentions; a sign manual; an autograph.

3. (Physiol.)

Defn: An outward mark by which internal characteristics were supposed
to be indicated.
Some plants bear a very evident signature of their nature and use.
Dr. H. More.

4. (Old Med.)

Defn: A resemblance between the external characters of a disease and
those of some physical agent, for instance, that existing between the
red skin of scarlet fever and a red cloth; -- supposed to indicate
this agent in the treatment of the disease.

5. (Mus.)

Defn: The designation of the key (when not C major, or its relative,
A minor) by means of one or more sharps or flats at the beginning of
the staff, immediately after the clef, affecting all notes of the
same letter throughout the piece or movement. Each minor key has the
same signature as its relative major.

6. (Print.)
(a) A letter or figure placed at the bottom of the first page of each
sheet of a book or pamphlet, as a direction to the binder in
arranging and folding the sheets.
(b) The printed sheet so marked, or the form from which it is
printed; as, to reprint one or more signatures.

Note: Star signatures (as A*, 1*) are the same characters, with the
addition of asterisks, used on the first pages of offcuts, as in 12mo
sheets.

7. (Pharm.)

Defn: That part of a prescription which contains the directions to
the patient. It is usually prefaced by S or Sig. (an abbreviation for
the Latin signa, imperative of signare to sign or mark).

SIGNATURE
Sig"na*ture, v. t.

Defn: To mark with, or as with, a signature or signatures.

SIGNATURIST
Sig"na*tur`ist, n.

Defn: One who holds to the doctrine of signatures impressed upon
objects, indicative of character or qualities. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SIGNBOARD
Sign"board`, n.

Defn: A board, placed on or before a shop, office, etc., on which
ssome notice is given, as the name of a firm, of a business, or the
like.

SIGNER
Sign"er, n.

Defn: One who signs or subscribes his name; as, a memorial with a
hundred signers.

SIGNET
Sig"net, n. Etym: [OF. signet a signet, F., a bookmark, dim. of
signe. See Sign, n., and cf. Sennet.]

Defn: A seal; especially, in England, the seal used by the sovereign
in sealing private letters and grants that pass by bill under the
sign manual; -- called also privy signet.
I had my father's signet in my purse. Shak.
Signet ring, a ring containing a signet or private seal.
 -- Writer to the signet (Scots Law), a judicial officer who prepares
warrants, writs, etc.; originally, a clerk in the office of the
secretary of state.

SIGNETED
Sig"net*ed, a.

Defn: Stamped or marked with a signet.

SIGNIFER
Sig"ni*fer, a. Etym: [L., from signum sign + ferre to bear.]

Defn: Bearing signs. [Obs.] "The signifer sphere, or zodiac."
Holland.

SIGNIFICANCE; SIGNIFICANCY
Sig*nif"i*cance, Sig*nif"i*can*cy, n. Etym: [L. significantia.]

1. The quality or state of being significant.

2. That which is signified; meaning; import; as, the significance of
a nod, of a motion of the hand, or of a word or expression.

3. Importance; moment; weight; consequence.
With this brain I must work, in order to give significancy and value
to the few facts which I possess. De Quincey.

SIGNIFICANT
Sig*nif"i*cant, a. Etym: [L. significans, -antis, p. pr. of
significare. See Signify.]

1. Fitted or designed to signify or make known somethingl having a
meaning; standing as a sign or token; expressive or suggestive; as, a
significant word or sound; a significant look.
It was well said of Plotinus, that the stars were significant, but
not efficient. Sir W. Raleigh.

2. Deserving to be considered; important; momentous; as, a
significant event. Significant figures (Arith.), the figures which
remain to any number, or decimal fraction, after the ciphers at the
right or left are canceled. Thus, the significant figures of 25,000,
or of .0025, are 25.

SIGNIFICANT
Sig*nif"i*cant, n.

Defn: That which has significance; a sign; a token; a symbol.
Wordsworth.
In dumb significants proclaim your thoughts. Shak.

SIGNIFICANTLY
Sig*nif"i*cant*ly, adv.

Defn: In a significant manner.

SIGNIFICATE
Sig*nif"i*cate, n. Etym: [L. significatus, p. p. of significare. See
Signify.] (Logic)

Defn: One of several things signified by a common term. Whately.

SIGNIFICATION
Sig`ni*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [F. signification, L. significatio.]

1. The act of signifying; a making known by signs or other means.
A signification of being pleased. Landor.
All speaking or signification of one's mind implies an act or addres
of one man to another. South.

2. That which is signified or made known; that meaning which a sign,
character, or token is intended to convey; as, the signification of
words.

SIGNIFICATIVE
Sig*nif"i*ca*tive, a. Etym: [L. significativus: cf. F. significatif.]

1. Betokening or representing by an external sign.
The holy symbols or signs are not barely significative. Brerewood.

2. Having signification or meaning; expressive of a meaning or
purpose; significant.
Neither in the degrees of kindred they were destitute of
significative words. Camden.
-- Sig*nif"i*ca*tive*ly, adv.
 -- Sig*nif"i*ca*tive*ness, n.

SIGNIFICATOR
Sig"ni*fi*ca`tor, n. Etym: [Cf. F. significateur.]

Defn: One who, or that which, signifies.
In this diagram there was one significator which pressed remarkably
upon our astrologer's attention. Sir W. Scott.

SIGNIFICATORY
Sig*nif"i*ca*to*ry, a. Etym: [L. significatorius.]

Defn: Significant.
 -- n.

Defn: That which is significatory.

SIGNIFICAVIT
Sig`ni*fi*ca"vit, n. Etym: [L., (he) has signified, perf. ind. of
significare to signify.] (Eng. Eccl. Law)

Defn: Formerly, a writ issuing out of chancery, upon certificate
given by the ordinary, of a man's standing excommunicate by the space
of forty days, for the laying him up in prison till he submit himself
to the authority of the church. Crabb.

SIGNIFY
Sig"ni*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Signified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Signifying.] Etym: [F. signifier, L. significare; signum a sign + -
ficare (in comp.) to make. See Sign, n., and -fy.]

1. To show by a sign; to communicate by any conventional token, as
words, gestures, signals, or the like; to announce; to make known; to
declare; to express; as, a signified his desire to be present.
I 'll to the king; and signify to him That thus I have resign'd my
charge to you. Shak.
The government should signify to the Protestants of Ireland that want
of silver is not to be remedied. Swift.

2. To mean; to import; to denote; to betoken.
He bade her tell him what it signified. Chaucer.
A tale Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, Signifying nothing.
Shak.

Note: Signify is often used impersonally; as, it signifies nothing,
it does not signify, that is, it is of no importance.

Syn.
 -- To express; manifest; declare; utter; intimate; betoken; denote;
imply; mean.

SIGNIOR
Sign"ior, n.

Defn: Sir; Mr. The English form and pronunciation for the Italian
Signor and the Spanish Senor.

SIGNIORIZE
Sign"ior*ize, v. t. Etym: [See Seigniorize.]

Defn: To exercise dominion over; to lord it over. [Obs.] Shelton.

SIGNIORIZE
Sign"ior*ize, v. i.

Defn: To exercise dominion; to signiorize. [Obs.] Hewyt.

SIGNIORSHIP
Sign"ior*ship, n.

Defn: State or position of a signior.

SIGNIORY
Sign"ior*y, n.

Defn: Same as Seigniory.

SIGNOR; SIGNORE
Si*gnor", Si*gno"re, n. Etym: [It. See Seignior.]

Defn: Sir; Mr; -- a title of address or respect among the Italians.
Before a noun the form is Signor.

SIGNORA
Si*gno"ra, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: Madam; Mrs; -- a title of address or respect among the
Italians.

SIGNORINA
Si`gno*ri"na, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: Miss; -- a title of address among the Italians.

SIGNPOST
Sign"post`, n.

Defn: A post on which a sign hangs, or on which papers are placed to
give public notice of anything.

SIK; SIKE
Sik, Sike, a.

Defn: Such. See Such. [Obs.] "Sike fancies weren foolerie." Spenser.

SIKE
Sike, n. Etym: [AS. sic. Cf. Sig.]

Defn: A gutter; a stream, such as is usually dry in summer. [Prov.
Eng. & Scot.]

SIKE
Sike, n. Etym: [See Sick.]

Defn: A sick person. [Prov. Eng.]

SIKE
Sike, v. i.

Defn: To sigh. [Obs.]
That for his wife weepeth and siketh sore. Chaucer.

SIKE
Sike, n.

Defn: A sigh. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SIKER; SIKERLY; SIKERNESS
Sik"er, a. & adv., Sik"er*ly, adv., Sik"er*ness, n., etc.

Defn: See 2d Sicker, Sickerly, etc. [Obs.]

SIKHS
Sikhs, n. pl.; sing. Sikh (. Etym: [Hind. Sikh, properly, a
disciple.]

Defn: A religious sect noted for warlike traits, founded in the
Punjab at the end of the 15th century.

SILAGE
Si"lage, n. & v.

Defn: Short for Ensilage.

SILE
Sile, v. t. Etym: [Akin to Sw. sila to strain, sil sieve, G. sielen
to draw away or lead off water. sq. root151a. See Silt.]

Defn: To strain, as fresh milk. [Prov. Eng.]

SILE
Sile, v. i.

Defn: To drop; to flow; to fall. [Prov. Eng.]

SILE
Sile, n.

1. A sieve with fine meshes. [Prov. Eng.]

2. Filth; sediment. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SILE
Sile, n. Etym: [Icel. sild herring; akin to Sw. sill, Dan. sild. Cf.
Sill the young of a herring.] (Zool.)

Defn: A young or small herring. [Eng.] Pennant.

SILENCE
Si"lence, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. silentium. See Silent.]

1. The state of being silent; entire absence of sound or noise;
absolute stillness.
I saw and heared; for such a numerous host Fled not in silence
through the frighted deep. Milton.

2. Forbearance from, or absence of, speech; taciturnity; muteness.

3. Secrecy; as, these things were transacted in silence.
The administration itself keeps a profound silence. D. Webster.

4. The cessation of rage, agitation, or tumilt; calmness; quiest; as,
the elements were reduced to silence.

5. Absence of mention; oblivion.
And what most merits fame, in silence hid. Milton.

SILENCE
Si"lence, interj.

Defn: Be silent; -- used elliptically for let there be silence, or
keep silence. Shak.

SILENCE
Si"lence, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Silenced; p. pr. & vb. n. Silencing.]

1. To compel to silence; to cause to be still; to still; to hush.
Silence that dreadful bell; it frights the isle. Shak.

2. To put to rest; to quiet.
This would silence all further opposition. Clarendon.
These would have silenced their scruples. Rogers.

3. To restrain from the exercise of any function, privilege of
instruction, or the like, especially from the act of preaching; as,
to silence a minister of the gospel.
The Rev. Thomas Hooker of Chelmsford, in Essex, was silenced for
nonconformity. B. Trumbull.

4. To cause to cease firing, as by a vigorous cannonade; as, to
silence the batteries of an enemy.

SILENCER
Si"lenc*er, n. One that silences; specif.:
 (a) The muffler of an internal-combustion engine.
 (b) Any of various devices to silence the humming noise of telegraph
wires.
 (c) A device for silencing the report of a firearm shooting its
projectiles singly, as a tubular attachment for the muzzle having
circular plates that permit the passage of the projectile but impart
a rotary motion to, and thus retard, the exploding gases.

SILENE
Si*le"ne, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. Silenus, the attendant of Bacchus.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A genus of caryophyllaceous plants, usually covered with a
viscid secretion by which insects are caught; catchfly. Bon Silene.
See Silene, in the Vocabulary.

SILENT
Si"lent, a. Etym: [L. silens, -entis, p. pr. of silere to be silent;
akin to Goth. ana-silan.]

1. Free from sound or noise; absolutely still; perfectly quiet.
How silent is this town! Shak.

2. Not speaking; indisposed to talk; speechless; mute; taciturn; not
loquacious; not talkative.
Ulysses, adds he, was the most eloquent and most silent of men.
Broome.
This new-created world, whereof in hell Fame is not silent. Milton.

3. Keeping at rest; inactive; calm; undisturbed; as, the wind is
silent. Parnell. Sir W. Raleigh.

4. (Pron.)

Defn: Not pronounced; having no sound; quiescent; as, e is silent in
"fable."

5. Having no effect; not operating; inefficient. [R.]
Cause . . . silent, virtueless, and dead. Sir W. Raleigh.
Silent partner. See Dormant partner, under Dormant.

Syn.
 -- Mute; taciturn; dumb; speechless; quiet; still. See Mute, and
Taciturn.

SILENT
Si"lent, n.

Defn: That which is silent; a time of silence. [R.] "The silent of
the night." Shak.

SILENTIARY
Si*len"ti*a*ry, n. Etym: [L. silentiarius: cf. F. silenciaire. See
Silence.]

Defn: One appointed to keep silence and order in court; also, one
sworn not to divulge secre

SILENTIOUS
Si*len"tious, a. Etym: [L. silentiosus: cf. F. silencieux.]

Defn: Habitually silent; taciturn; reticent. [R.]

SILENTLY
Si"lent*ly, adv.

Defn: In a silent manner.

SILENTNESS
Si"lent*ness, n.

Defn: State of being silent; silence.

SILENUS
Si*le"nus, n. Etym: [L. Silenus the tutor and attendant of Bacchus.]
(Zool.)

Defn: See Wanderoo.

SILESIA
Si*le"si*a, n.

1. A kind of linen cloth, originally made in Silesia, a province of
Prussia.

2. A twilled cotton fabric, used for dress linings.

SILESIAN
Si*le"si*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Silesia.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Silesia.

SILEX
Si"lex, n. Etym: [L., a finit, a pebblestone.] (Min.)

Defn: Silica, SiO2 as found in nature, constituting quarz, and most
sands and sandstones. See Silica, and Silicic.

SILHOUETTE
Sil`hou*ette", n. Etym: [F.; -- so called from Etienne de Silhoutte,
a French minister of finance in 1759, whise diversion it was to make
such portraits on the walls of his apartments.]

Defn: A representation of the outlines of an object filled in with a
black color; a profile portrait in black, such as a shadow appears to
be.

SILHOUETTE
Sil`hou*ette", v. t.

Defn: To represent by a silhouette; to project upon a background, so
as to be like a silhouette. [Recent]
A flock of roasting vultures silhouetted on the sky. The Century.

SILICA
Sil"i*ca, n. Etym: [NL., from L. silex, silics, a flint.] (Chem.)

Defn: Silicon dioxide, SiO

SILICATE
Sil"i*cate, n.Etym: [Cf. F. silicate.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of silicic acid.

Note: In mineralogical chemistry the silicates include; the
unisilicates or orthosilicates, salts of orthosilicic acid; the
bisilicates or metasilicates, salts of metasilicic acid; the
polysilicates or acid silicates, salts of the polysilicic acids; the
basic silicates or subsilicates, in which the equivalent of base is
greater than would be required to neutralize the acid; and the
hydrous silicates, including the zeolites and many hydrated
decomposition products.

SILICATED
Sil"i*ca`ted, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with silicon or silica; as, silicated
hydrogen; silicated rocks. Silicated soap, a hard soap containing
silicate of soda.

SILICATIZATION
Sil`i*ca*ti*za"tion, n.

Defn: Silicification.

SILICEA
Si*lic"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Silicoidea.

SILICEOUS
Si*li"ceous, a. Etym: [L. siliceus, fr. silex, silicis, a flint.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to silica; containing silica, or partaking of
its nature. [Written also silisious.]

SILICIC
Si*lic"ic, a. Etym: [L. silex, silicis, a flint: cf. F. silicique.]
(Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, derived from, or resembling, silica;
specifically, designating compounds of silicon; as, silicic acid.
Silicic acid (Chem.), an amorphous gelatinous substance, Si(HO)4,
very unstable and easily dried to silica, but forming many stable
salts; -- called also orthosilicic, or normal silicic, acid.

SILICICALCAREOUS
Si*lic`i*cal*ca"re*ous, a.

Defn: Consisting of silica and calcareous matter.

SILICIDE
Sil"i*cide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A binary compound of silicon, or one regarded as binary. [R.]
Hydrogen silicide (Chem.), a colorless, spontaneously inflammable
gas, SiH4, produced artifically from silicon, and analogous to
methane; -- called also silico-methane, silicon hydride, and formerly
siliciureted hydrogen.

SILICIFEROUS
Sil`i*cif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. silex, silicis, a flint + -ferous.]

Defn: Producing silica; united with silica.

SILICIFICATION
Si*lic`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [See Silicify.] (Chem.)

Defn: Thae act or process of combining or impregnating with silicon
or silica; the state of being so combined or impregnated; as, the
silicification of wood.

SILICIFIED
Si*lic"i*fied, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with silicon or silica, especially the
latter; as, silicified wood.

SILICIFY
Si*lic"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Silicified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Silicifying.] Etym: [L. silex, silicis, a flint + -fy: cf. F.
silicifier.] (Chem.)

Defn: To convert into, or to impregnate with, silica, or with the
compounds of silicon.
The specimens found . . . are completely silicified. Say.

Note: The silica may take the form of agate, chalcedony, flint,
hornstone, or crystalline quartz.

SILICIFY
Si*lic"i*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become converted into silica, or to be impregnated with
silica.

SILICIOIDEA
Sil`i*ci*oi"de*a, n. pl. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Silicoidea.

SILICIOUS
Si*li"cious, a.

Defn: See Siliceous.

SILICISPONGIAE
Sil`i*ci*spon"gi*?, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Silex, and Sponge.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Silicoidea.

SILICITED
Si*lic"it*ed, a.

Defn: Silicified. [Obs.]

SILICIUM
Si*lic"i*um, n.

Defn: See Silicon.

SILICIURETED
Si*lic"i*u*ret`ed, a. [Written also siliciuretted.] (Old. Chem.)

Defn: Combined or impregnated with silicon. [Obsoles.] Siliciureted
hydrogen. (Chem.) Hydrogen silicide. [Obs.]

SILICLE
Sil"i*cle, n. Etym: [L. silicula, dim. of siliqua a pod or husk: cf.
F. silicule.] (Bot.)

Defn: A seed vessel resembling a silique, but about as broad as it is
long. See Silique.

SILICO-
Sil"i*co-. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence
of silicon or its compounds; as, silicobenzoic, silicofluoride, etc.

SILICOFLUORIC
Sil`i*co*flu*or"ic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Containing, or composed of, silicon and fluorine; especially,
denoting the compounds called silicofluorides. Silicofluoric acid
(Chem.), a compound of hydrofluoric acid and silicon fluoride, known
only in watery solution. It is produced by the action of silicon
fluoride on water, and is regarded as an acid, H2SiF6, and the type
and origin of the silicofluorides.

SILICOFLUORIDE
Sil`i*co*flu"or*ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A fluosilicate; a salt of silicofluoric acid.

SILICOIDEA
Sil`i*coi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Silex, and -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: An extensive order of Porifera, which includes those that have
the skeleton composed mainly of siliceous fibers or spicules.

SILICON
Sil"i*con, n. Etym: [See Silica.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nonmetalic element analogous to carbon. It always occurs
combined in nature, and is artificially obtained in the free state,
usually as a dark brown amorphous powder, or as a dark crystalline
substance with a meetallic luster. Its oxide is silica, or common
quartz, and in this form, or as silicates, it is, next to oxygen, the
most abundant element of the earth's crust. Silicon is
characteristically the element of the mineral kingdom, as carbon is
of the organic world. Symbol Si. Atomic weight 28. Called also
silicium.

SILICOTUNGSTIC
Sil`i*co*tung"stic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of, pertaining to, or designating, any one of a series of
double acids of silicon and tungsten, known in the free state, and
also in their salts (called silicotungstates).

SILICULA
Si*lic"u*la, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A silicle.

SILICULE
Sil"i*cule, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A silicle.

SILICULOSE
Si*lic"u*lose`, a. Etym: [NL. siliculosus, fr. L. silicula: cf. F.
siliculeux. See Silicle.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing silicles; pertaining to, or resembling, silicles.

2. Full of, or consisting of, husks; husky. [Obs.]

SILIGINOSE
Si*lig"i*nose`, a.Etym: [L. siligineus, fr. siligo, -inis, fine and
very white wheat.]

Defn: Made of fine wheat. [Obs.] Bailey.

SILING
Sil"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Sile to strain. [Obs. or Prov.Eng.] Siling dish, a
colander. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SILIQUA
Sil"i*qua, n.; pl. Siliqu?. Etym: [L. See Silique.]

1. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Silique.

2. A weight of four grains; a carat; -- a term used by jewelers, and
refiners of gold.

SILIQUE
Sil"ique, n. Etym: [L. siliqua a pod or husk, a very small weight or
measure: cf. F. silique.] (Bot.)

Defn: An oblong or elongated seed vessel, consisting of two valves
with a dissepiment between, and opening by sutures at either margin.
The seeds are attached to both edges of the dissepiment, alternately
upon each side of it.

SILIQUIFORM
Sil"i*qui*form, a. Etym: [Silique + -form: cf. F. siliquiforme.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Having the form of a silique.

SILIQUOSA
Sil`i*quo"sa, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Siliquose.] (Bot.)

Defn: A Linn?an order of plants including those which bear siliques.

SILIQUOSE; SILIQUOUS
Sil"i*quose`, Sil"i*quous, a. Etym: [NL. siliquosus: cf. F.
siliqueux.] (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing siliques; as, siliquose plants; pertaining to, or
resembling, siliques; as, siliquose capsules.

SILK
Silk, n. Etym: [OE. silk, selk, AS. seolc, seoloc; akin to Icel.
silki, SW. & Dan. silke; prob. through Slavic from an Oriental
source; cf. Lith. szilkai, Russ. shelk', and also L. sericum Seric
stuff, silk. Cf. Sericeous. Serge a woolen stuff.]

1. The fine, soft thread produced by various species of caterpillars
in forming the cocoons within which the worm is inclosed during the
pupa state, especially that produced by the larv? of Bombyx mori.

2. Hence, thread spun, or cloth woven, from the above-named material.

3. That which resembles silk, as the filiform styles of the female
flower of maize. Raw silk, silk as it is wound off from the cocoons,
and before it is manufactured.
 -- Silk cotton, a cottony substance enveloping the seeds of the
silk-cotton tree.
 -- Silk-cotton tree (Bot.), a name for several tropical trees of the
genera Bombax and Eriodendron, and belonging to the order Bombace?.
The trees grow to an immense size, and have their seeds enveloped in
a cottony substance, which is used for stuffing cushions, but can not
be spun.
 -- Silk flower. (Bot.) (a) The silk tree. (b) A similar tree
(Calliandra trinervia) of Peru.
 -- Silk fowl (Zool.), a breed of domestic fowls having silky
plumage.
 -- Silk gland (Zool.), a gland which secretes the material of silk,
as in spider or a silkworm; a sericterium.
 -- Silk gown, the distinctive robe of a barrister who has been
appointed king's or queen's counsel; hence, the counsel himself. Such
a one has precedence over mere barristers, who wear stuff gowns.
[Eng.] -- Silk grass (Bot.), a kind of grass (Stipa comata) of the
Western United States, which has very long silky awns. The name is
also sometimes given to various species of the genera Aqave and
Yucca.
 -- Silk moth (Zool.), the adult moth of any silkworm. See Silkworm.
 -- Silk shag, a coarse, rough-woven silk, like plush, but with a
stiffer nap.
 -- Silk spider (Zool.), a large spider (Nephila plumipes), native of
the Southern United States, remarkable for the large quantity of
strong silk it produces and for the great disparity in the sizes of
the sexes.
 -- Silk thrower, Silk throwster, one who twists or spins silk, and
prepares it for weaving. Brande & C.
 -- Silk tree (Bot.), an Asiatic leguminous tree (Albizzia
Julibrissin) with finely bipinnate leaves, and large flat pods; -- so
called because of the abundant long silky stamens of its blossoms.
Also called silk flower.
 -- Silk vessel. (Zool.) Same as Silk gland, above.
 -- Virginia silk (Bot.), a climbing plant (Periploca Gr?ca) of the
Milkweed family, having a silky tuft on the seeds. It is native in
Southern Europe.

SILKEN
Silk"en, a. Etym: [AS. seolcen, seolocen.]

1. Of or pertaining to silk; made of, or resembling, silk; as, silken
cloth; a silken veil.

2. Fig.: Soft; delicate; tender; smooth; as, silken language. "Silken
terms precise." Shak.

3. Dressed in silk. "A . . . silken wanton." Shak.

SILKEN
Silk"en, v. t.

Defn: To render silken or silklike. Dyer.

SILKINESS
Silk"i*ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being silky or silken; softness and
smoothness.

2. Fig.: Effeminacy; weakness. [R.] B. Jonson.

SILKMAN
Silk"man, n.; pl. Silkmen (.

Defn: A dealer in silks; a silk mercer. Shak.

SILKNESS
Silk"ness, n.

Defn: Silkiness. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SILK-STOCKING
Silk"-stock`ing, a.

Defn: Wearing silk stockings (which among men were formerly worn
chiefly by the luxurious or aristocratic); hence, elegantly dressed;
aristocratic; luxurious; -- chiefly applied to men, often by way of
reproach.

[They] will find their levees crowded with silk-stocking gentry, but
no yeomanry; an army of officers without soldiers.
Jefferson.

SILKWEED
Silk"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the genera Asclepias and Acerates whose seed
vessels contain a long, silky down; milkweed.

SILKWORM
Silk"worm`, n. Etym: [AS. seolcwyrm.] (Zool.)

Defn: The larva of any one of numerous species of bombycid moths,
which spins a large amount of strong silk in constructing its cocoon
before changing to a pupa.

Note: The common species (Bombyx mori) feeds onm the leaves of the
white mulberry tree. It is native of China, but has long been
introduced into other countries of Asia and Europe, and is reared on
a large scale. In America it is reared only to small extent. The
Ailanthus silkworm (Philosamia cynthia) is a much larger species, of
considerable importance, which has been introduced into Europe and
America from China. The most useful American species is the
Polyphemus. See Polyphemus. Pernyi silkworm, the larva of the Pernyi
moth. See Pernyi moth.
 -- Silkworm gut, a substance prepared from the contents of the silk
glands of silkworms and used in making lines for angling. See Gut.
 -- Silkworm rot, a disease of silkworms; muscardine.

SILKY
Silk"y, a. [Compar. Silkier; superl. Silkiest.]

1. Of or pertaining to silk; made of, or resembling, silk; silken;
silklike; as, a silky luster.

2. Hence, soft and smooth; as, silky wine.

3. Covered with soft hairs pressed close to the surface, as a leaf;
sericeous. Silky oak (Bot.), a lofty Australian tree (Grevillea
robusta) with silky tomentose lobed or incised leaves. It furnishes a
valuable timber.

SILL
Sill, n. Etym: [OE. sille, sylle, AS. syl, syll; akin to G. schwelle,
OHG. swelli, Icel. syll, svill, Sw. syll, Dan. syld, Goth. gasuljan
to lay a foundation, to found.]

Defn: The basis or foundation of a thing; especially, a horizontal
piece, as a timber, which forms the lower member of a frame, or
supports a structure; as, the sills of a house, of a bridge, of a
loom, and the like. Hence:
(a) The timber or stone at the foot of a door; the threshold.
(b) The timber or stone on which a window frame stands; or, the
lowest piece in a window frame.
(c) The floor of a gallery or passage in a mine.
(d) A piece of timber across the bottom of a canal lock for the gates
to shut against. Sill course (Arch.), a horizontal course of stone,
terra cotta, or the like, built into a wall at the level of one or
more window sills, these sills often forming part of it.

SILL
Sill, n. Etym: [Cf. Thill.]

Defn: The shaft or thill of a carriage. [Prov. Eng.]

SILL
Sill, n. Etym: [Cf. 4th Sile.]

Defn: A young herring. [Eng.]

SILLABUB
Sil"la*bub, n. Etym: [Cf. sile to strain, and bub liquor, also Prov.
E. sillibauk.]

Defn: A dish made by mixing wine or cider with milk, and thus forming
a soft curd; also, sweetened cream, flavored with wine and beaten to
a stiff froth. [Written also syllabub.]

SILLER
Sil"ler, n.

Defn: Silver. [Scot.]

SILLILY
Sil"li*ly, adv. Etym: [From Silly.]

Defn: In a silly manner; foolishly. Dryden.

SILLIMANITE
Sil"li*man*ite, n. Etym: [After Benjamin Siliman, an American
meneralogist.] (Min.)

Defn: Same as Fibrolite.

SILLINESS
Sil"li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being silly.

SILLOCK
Sil"lock, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The pollock, or coalfish.

SILLON
Sil"lon, n. Etym: [F., a furrow.] (Fort.)

Defn: A work raised in the middle of a wide ditch, to defend it.
Crabb.

SILLY
Sil"ly, a. [Compar. Sillier; superl. Silliest.] Etym: [OE. seely,
sely, AS. s, ges, happy, good, fr. s, s, good, happy, s good fortune,
happines; akin to OS. salig, a, good, happy, D. zalig blessed, G.
selig, OHG. salig, Icel. s, Sw. sall, Dan. salig, Goth. s good, kind,
and perh. also to L. sollus whole, entire, Gr. sarva. Cf. Seel, n.]

1. Happy; fortunate; blessed. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. Harmless; innocent; inoffensive. [Obs.] "This silly, innocent
Custance." Chaucer.
The silly virgin strove him to withstand. Spenser.
A silly, innocent hare murdered of a dog. Robynson (More's Utopia).

3. Weak; helpless; frail. [Obs.]
After long storms . . . With which my silly bark was tossed sore.
Spenser.
The silly buckets on the deck. Coleridge.

4. Rustic; plain; simple; humble. [Obs.]
A fourth man, in a sillyhabit. Shak.
All that did their silly thoughts so busy keep. Milton.

5. Weak in intellect; destitute of ordinary strength of mind;
foolish; witless; simple; as, a silly woman.

6. Proceeding from want of understanding or common judgment;
characterized by weakness or folly; unwise; absurd; stupid; as, silly
conduct; a silly question.

Syn.
 -- Simple; brainless; witless; shallow; foolish; unwise; indiscreet.
See Simple.

SILLYHOW
Sil"ly*how, n. Etym: [Prov. E. silly-hew; cf. AS. s?lig happy, good,
and hufe a cap, hood. See Silly, a.]

Defn: A caul. See Caul, n., 3. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SILO
Si"lo, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A pit or vat for packing away green fodder for winter use so as
to exclude air and outside moisture. See Ensilage.

SILT
Silt, n. Etym: [OE. silte gravel, fr. silen to drain, E. sile;
probably of Scand. origin; cf. Sw. sila, prob. akin to AS. seon to
filter, sigan to fall, sink, cause to sink, G. seihen to strain, to
filter, OHG. sihan, Icel.sia, Skr. sic to pour; cf. Gr. Sig, Sile.]

Defn: Mud or fine earth deposited from running or standing water.

SILT
Silt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Silted; p. pr. & vb. n. Silting.]

Defn: To choke, fill, or obstruct with silt or mud.

SILT
Silt, v. i.

Defn: To flow through crevices; to percolate.

SILTY
Silt"y, a.

Defn: Full of silt; resembling silt.

SILUNDUM
Si*lun"dum, n.  [Trade name]

Defn: A form of silicon carbide, produced in the electric furnace,
possessing great hardness, and high electrical resistance, and not
subject to oxidation below 2880? F., or 1600? C.

SILURE
Si*lure", n. Etym: [L. silurus a sort of river fish, Gr. silure.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A fish of the genus Silurus, as the sheatfish; a siluroid.

SILURIAN
Si*lu"ri*an, a. Etym: [From L. Silures, a people who anciently
inhabited a part of England and Wales.] (Geol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the country of the ancient Silures; -- a
term applied to the earliest of the Paleozoic eras, and also to the
strata of the era, because most plainly developed in that country.

Note: The Silurian formation, so named by Murchison, is divided into
the Upper Silurian and Lower Silurian. The lower part of the Lower
Silurian, with some underlying beds, is now separated under the name
Cambrian, first given by Sedwick. Recently the term Ordovician has
been proposed for the Lower Silurian, leawing the original word to
apply only to the Upper Silurian.

SILURIAN
Si*lu"ri*an, n.

Defn: The Silurian age.

SILURIDAN
Si*lu"ri*dan, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any fish of the family Silurid or of the order Siluroidei.

SILUROID
Si*lu"roid, n. Etym: [Silurus + -oid.] (Zool.)

Defn: Belonging to the Siluroidei, or Nematognathi, an order of
fishes including numerous species, among which are the American
catfishes and numerous allied fresh-water species of the Old World,
as the sheatfish (Silurus glanis) of Europe.
 -- n.

Defn: A siluroid fish.

SILUROIDEI
Sil`u*roi"de*i, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (zool.)

Defn: An order of fishes, the Nematognathi.

SILURUS
Si*lu"rus, n. Etym: [L. See Silure.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of large malacopterygious fishes of the order
Siluroidei. They inhabit the inland waters of Europe and Asia.

SILVA
Sil"va, n.; pl. E. Silvas, L. Silvae (. Etym: [L., properly, a wood,
forest.] [Written also sylva.] (Bot.)
(a) The forest trees of a region or country, considered collectively.
(b) A description or history of the forest trees of a country.

SILVAN
Sil"van, a. Etym: [L. silva, less correctly sylva, a wood or grove,
perh. akin to Gr. "y`lh; cf. L. Silvanus Silvanus the god of woods:
cf. F. sylvain silvan. Cf. Savage.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to woods; composed of woods or groves; woody.
[Written also sylvan.]
Betwixt two rows of rocks, a silvan scene Appears above, and groves
forever green. Dryden.

SILVAN
Sil"van, n. (Old Chem.)

Defn: See Sylvanium. [Obs.]

SILVANITE
Sil"van*ite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Sylvanite.

SILVAS; SELVAS
Sil"vas or Sel"vas, n. pl. Etym: [L. silva a forest, Sp. selva.]

Defn: Vast woodland plains of South America.

SILVATE
Sil"vate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: Same as Sylvate.

SILVER
Sil"ver, n. Etym: [OE. silver, selver, seolver, AS. seolfor, siolfur,
siolufr, silofr, sylofr; akin to OS. silubar, OFries. selover, D.
zilver, LG. sulver, OHG. silabar, silbar, G. silber, Icel. silfr, Sw.
silfver, Dan. solv, Goth. silubr, Russ. serebro, Lith. sidabras; of
unknown origin.]

1. (Chem.)

Defn: A soft white metallic element, sonorous, ductile, very
malleable, and capable of a high degree of polish. It is found
native, and also combined with sulphur, arsenic, antimony, chlorine,
etc., in the minerals argentite, proustite, pyrargyrite, ceragyrite,
etc. Silver is one of the "noble" metals, so-called, not being easily
oxidized, and is used for coin, jewelry, plate, and a great variety
of articles. Symbol Ag (Argentum). Atomic weight 107.7. Specific
gravity 10.5.

Note: Silver was known under the name of luna to the ancients and
also to the alchemists. Some of its compounds, as the halogen salts,
are remarkable for the effect of light upon them, and are used in
photography.

2. Coin made of silver; silver money.

3. Anything having the luster or appearance of silver.

4. The color of silver.

Note: Silver is used in the formation of many compounds of obvious
meaning; as, silver-armed, silver-bright, silver-buskined, silver-
coated, silver-footed, silver-haired, silver-headed, silver-mantled,
silver-plated, silver-slippered, silver-sounding, silver-studded,
silver-tongued, silver-white. See Silver, a. Black silver (Min.),
stephanite; -- called also brittle silver ore, or brittle silver
glance.
 -- Fulminating silver. (Chem.) (a) A black crystalline substance,
Ag2O.(NH3)2, obtained by dissolving silver oxide in aqua ammonia.
When dry it explodes violently on the slightest percussion. (b)
Silver fulminate, a white crystalline substance, Ag2C2N2O2, obtained
by adding alcohol to a solution of silver nitrate. When dry it is
violently explosive.
 -- German silver. (Chem.) See under German.
 -- Gray silver. (Min.) See Freieslebenite.
 -- Horn silver. (Min.) See Cerargyrite.
 -- King's silver. (O. Eng. Law) See Postfine.
 -- Red silver, or Ruby silver. (Min.) See Proustite, and
Pyrargyrite.
 -- Silver beater, one who beats silver into silver leaf or silver
foil.
 -- Silver glance, or Vitreous silver. (Min.) See Argentine.

SILVER
Sil"ver, a.

1. Of or pertaining to silver; made of silver; as, silver leaf; a
silver cup.

2. Resembling silver. Specifically:
(a) Bright; resplendent; white. "Silver hair." Shak.
Others, on silver lakes and rivers, bathed Their downy breast.
Milton.

(b) Precious; costly.
(c) Giving a clear, ringing sound soft and clear. "Silver voices."
Spenser.
(d) Sweet; gentle; peaceful. "Silver slumber." Spenser. American
silver fir (Bot.), the balsam fir. See under Balsam.
 -- Silver age (Roman Lit.), the latter part (a. d. 14-180) of the
classical period of Latinity, -- the time of writers of inferior
purity of language, as compared with those of the previous golden
age, so-called.
 -- Silver-bell tree (Bot.), an American shrub or small tree (Halesia
tetraptera) with white bell-shaped flowers in clusters or racemes;
the snowdrop tree.
 -- Silver bush (Bot.), a shrubby leguminous plant (Anthyllis Barba-
Jovis) of Southern Europe, having silvery foliage.
 -- Silver chub (Zool.), the fallfish.
 -- Silver eel. (Zool.) (a) The cutlass fish. (b) A pale variety of
the common eel.
 -- Silver fir (Bot.), a coniferous tree (Abies pectinata) found in
mountainous districts in the middle and south of Europe, where it
often grows to the height of 100 or 150 feet. It yields Burgundy
pitch and Strasburg turpentine.
 -- Silver foil, foil made of silver.
 -- Silver fox (Zool.), a variety of the common fox (Vulpes vulpes,
variety argenteus) found in the northern parts of Asia, Europe, and
America. Its fur is nearly black, with silvery tips, and is highly
valued. Called also black fox, and silver-gray fox.
 -- Silver gar. (Zool.) See Billfish (a) -- Silver grain (Bot.), the
lines or narrow plates of cellular tissue which pass from the pith to
the bark of an exogenous stem; the medullary rays. In the wood of the
oak they are much larger than in that of the beech, maple, pine,
cherry, etc.
 -- Silver grebe (Zool.), the red-throated diver. See Illust. under
Diver.
 -- Silver hake (Zool.), the American whiting.
 -- Silver leaf, leaves or sheets made of silver beaten very thin.
 -- Silver lunge (Zool.), the namaycush.
 -- Silver moonfish.(Zool.) See Moonfish (b).
 -- Silver moth (Zool.), a lepisma.
 -- Silver owl (Zool.), the barn owl.
 -- Silver perch (Zool.), the mademoiselle, 2.
 -- Silver pheasant (Zool.), any one of several species of beautiful
crested and long-tailed Asiatic pheasants, of the genus Euplocamus.
They have the tail and more or less of the upper parts silvery white.
The most common species (E. nychtemerus) is native of China.
 -- Silver plate, domestic utensils made of silver.
 -- Silver plover (Zool.), the knot.
 -- Silver salmon (Zool.), a salmon (Oncorhynchus kisutch) native of
both coasts of the North Pacific. It ascends all the American rivers
as far south as the Sacramento. Called also kisutch, whitefish, and
white salmon.
 -- Silver shell (Zool.), a marine bivalve of the genus Anomia. See
Anomia.
 -- Silver steel, an alloy of steel with a very small proportion of
silver.
 -- Silver stick, a title given to the title field officer of the
Life Guards when on duty at the palace. [Eng.] Thackeray.
 -- Silver tree (Bot.), a South African tree (Leucadendron argenteum)
with long, silvery, silky leaves.
 -- Silver trout, (Zool.) See Trout.
 -- Silver wedding. See under Wedding.
 -- Silver whiting (Zool.), a marine sci?noid food fish (Menticirrus
littoralis) native of the Southern United States; -- called also surf
whiting.
 -- Silver witch (Zool.), A lepisma.

SILVER
Sil"ver, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Silvered; p. pr. & vb. n. Silvering.]

1. To cover with silver; to give a silvery appearance to by applying
a metal of a silvery color; as, to silver a pin; to silver a glass
mirror plate with an amalgam of tin and mercury.

2. To polish like silver; to impart a brightness to, like that of
silver.
And smiling calmness silvered o'er the deep. Pope.

3. To make hoary, or white, like silver.
His head was silvered o'er with age. Gay.

SILVER
Sil"ver, v. i.

Defn: To acquire a silvery color. [R.]
The eastern sky began to silver and shine. L. Wallace.

SILVERBACK
Sil"ver*back`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The knot.

SILVERBERRY
Sil"ver*ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A tree or shrub (El?agnus argentea) with silvery foliage and
fruit. Gray.

SILVERBILL
Sil"ver*bill`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An Old World finch of the genus Minia, as the M. Malabarica of
India, and M. cantans of Africa.

SILVERBOOM
Sil"ver*boom`, n. Etym: [D. zilver silver + boom tree.] (Bot.)

Defn: See Leucadendron.

SILVER CERTIFICATE
Sil"ver cer*tif"i*cate.

Defn: A certificate issued by a government that there has been
deposited with it silver to a specified amount, payable to the bearer
on demand. In the United States and its possessions, it is issued
against the deposit of silver coin, and is not legal tender, but is
receivable for customs, taxes, and all public dues.

SILVERFIN
Sil"ver*fin`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A small North American fresh-water cyprinoid fish (Notropis
Whipplei).

SILVERFISH
Sil"ver*fish`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The tarpum.
(b) A white variety of the goldfish. Lepisma saccharina, which may
infest houses, and eats starched clothing and sized papers. See
Lepisma.

SILVER-GRAY
Sil"ver-gray`, a.

Defn: Having a gray color with a silvery luster; as, silver-gray
hair.

SILVERINESS
Sil"ver*i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being silvery.

SILVERING
Sil"ver*ing, n. (Metal.)

Defn: The art or process of covering metals, wood, paper, glass,
etc., with a thin film of metallic silver, or a substance resembling
silver; also, the firm do laid on; as, the silvering of a glass
speculum.

SILVERITE
Sil"ver*ite, n.

Defn: One who favors the use or establishment of silver as a monetary
standard; -- so called by those who favor the gold standard. [Colloq.
or Cant]

SILVERIZE
Sil"ver*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Silverized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Silverizing.]

Defn: To cover with silver.

SILVERLESS
Sil"ver*less, a.

Defn: Having no silcver; hence, without money; impecunious. Piers
Plowman.

SILVERLING
Sil"ver*ling, n.

Defn: A small silver coin. [Obs.]
A thousand vines at a thousand silverings. Isa. vii. 23.

SILVERLY
Sil"ver*ly, adv.

Defn: Like silver in appearance or in sound.
Let me wipe off this honorable dew, That silverly doth progress on
thy cheeks. Shak.

SILVERN
Sil"vern, a. Etym: [AS. seolfern, sylfren.]

Defn: Made of silver. [Archaic.] Wyclif (Acts xix. 24).
Speech is silvern; silence is golden. Old Proverb.

SILVERSIDES
Sil"ver*sides`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of small fishes of the family
Atherinid?, having a silvery stripe along each side of the body. The
common species of the American coast (Menidia notata) is very
abundant. Called also silverside, sand smelt, friar, tailor, and
tinker. Brook silversides (Zool.), a small fresh-water North American
fish (Labadesthes sicculus) related to the marine silversides.

SILVERSMITH
Sil"ver*smith`, n.

Defn: One whose occupation is to manufacture utensils, ornaments,
etc., of silver; a worker in silver.

SILVERSPOT
Sil"ver*spot`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of butterflies of the genus
Argynnis and allied genera, having silvery spots on the under side of
the wings. See Illust. under Aphrodite.

SILVER STATE
Silver State.

Defn: Nevada; -- a nickname alluding to its silver mines.

SILVERWARE
Sil"ver*ware`, n.

Defn: Dishes, vases, ornaments, and utensils of various sorts, made
of silver.

SILVERWEED
Sil"ver*weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial rosaceous herb (Potentilla Anserina) having the
leaves silvery white beneath.

SILVERY
Sil"ver*y, a.

1. Resembling, or having the luster of, silver; grayish white and
lustrous; of a mild luster; bright.
All the enameled race, whose silvery wing Waves to the tepid zephyrs
of the spring. Pope.

2. Besprinkled or covered with silver.

3. Having the clear, musical tone of silver; soft and clear in sound;
as, silvery voices; a silvery laugh. Silvery iron (Metal.), a
peculiar light-gray fine-grained cast iron, usually obtained from
clay iron ore.

SILVICS
Sil"vics, n.

1. The science treating of the life of trees in the forest.

2.  Habit or behavior of a forest tree.

SILVICULTURE
Sil"vi*cul`ture, n. Etym: [Cf. F. silviculture.]

Defn: See Sylviculture.

SIMA
Si"ma, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A cyma.

SIMAGRE
Sim"a*gre, n. Etym: [F. simagree.]

Defn: A grimace. [Obs.] Dryden.

SIMAR
Si*mar", n. Etym: [F. simarre. See Chimere.]

Defn: A woman's long dress or robe; also light covering; a scarf.
[Written also cimar, cymar, samare, simare.]

SIMARRE
Si`marre". Etym: [F.]

Defn: See Simar. Sir W. Scott.

SIMBLOT
Sim"blot, n. Etym: [F. simbleau.]

Defn: The harness of a drawloom.

SIMIA
Sim"i*a, n. Etym: [L., an ape; cf. simus flatnosed, snub-nosed, Gr.
(Zool.)

Defn: A Linn?an genus of Quadrumana which included the types of
numerous modern genera. By modern writers it is usually restricted to
the genus which includes the orang-outang.

SIMIAL
Sim"i*al, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Simian; apelike.

SIMIAN
Sim"i*an, a. Etym: [L. simia an ape.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family Simiad?, which, in its widest
sense, includes all the Old World apes and monkeys; also, apelike.
 -- n.

Defn: Any Old World monkey or ape.

SIMILAR
Sim"i*lar, a. Etym: [F. similaire, fr. L. similis like, similar. See
Same, a., and cf. Simulate.]

1. Exactly corresponding; resembling in all respects; precisely like.

2. Nearly corresponding; resembling in many respects; somewhat like;
having a general likeness.

3. Homogenous; uniform. [R.] Boyle. Similar figures (Geom.), figures
which differ from each other only in magnitude, being made up of the
same number of like parts similarly situated.
 -- Similar rectilineal figures, such as have their several angles
respectively equal, each to each, and their sides about the equal
angles proportional.
 -- Similar solids, such as are contained by the same number of
similar planes, similarly situated, and having like inclination to
one another.

SIMILAR
Sim"i*lar, n.

Defn: That which is similar to, or resembles, something else, as in
quality, form, etc.

SIMILARITY
Sim`i*lar"i*ty, n.; pl. -ties. Etym: [Cf. F. similarite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being similar; likeness; resemblance;
as, a similarity of features.
Hardly is there a similarity detected between two or three facts,
than men hasten to extend it to all. Sir W. Hamilton.

SIMILARLY
Sim"i*lar*ly, adv.

Defn: In a similar manner.

SIMILARY
Sim"i*lar*y, a.

Defn: Similar. [Obs.]
Rhyming cadences of similarly words. South.

SIMILATIVE
Sim"i*la*tive, a.

Defn: Implying or indicating likeness or resemblance. [R.]
In similative or instrumental relation to a pa. pple. [past
participle], as almond-leaved, -scented, etc. New English Dict.

SIMILE
Simi"*le, n.; pl. Similes. Etym: [L., from similis. See Similar.]
(Rhet.)

Defn: A word or phrase by which anything is likened, in one or more
of its aspects, to something else; a similitude; a poetical or
imaginative comparison.
A good swift simile, but something currish. Shak.

SIMILITER
Si*mil"i*ter, n. Etym: [L., in like manner.] (Law)

Defn: The technical name of the form by which either party, in
pleading, accepts the issue tendered by his opponent; -- called
sometimes a joinder in issue.

SIMILITUDE
Si*mil"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. similitude, L. similitudo, from similis
similar. See Similar.]

1. The quality or state of being similar or like; resemblance;
likeness; similarity; as, similitude of substance. Chaucer.
Let us make now man in our image, man In our similitude. Milton.
If fate some future bard shall join In sad similitude of griefs to
mine. Pope.

2. The act of likening, or that which likens, one thing to another;
fanciful or imaginative comparison; a simile.
Tasso, in his similitudes, never departed from the woods; that is,
all his comparisons were taken from the country. Dryden.

3. That which is like or similar; a representation, semblance, or
copy; a facsimile.
Man should wed his similitude. Chaucer.

SIMILITUDINARY
Si*mil`i*tu"di*na*ry, a.

Defn: Involving or expressing similitude. [Obs.] Coke.

SIMILIZE
Sim"i*lize, v. t.

Defn: To liken; to compare; as, to similize a person, thing, or act.
Lowell.

SIMILOR
Sim"i*lor, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. similus similar + F. or gold, L.
aurum. Cf. Semilor.]

Defn: An alloy of copper and zinc, resembling brass, but of a golden
color. Ure.

SIMIOUS
Sim"i*ous, a.Etym: [L. simia an ape.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Simian.
That strange simious, schoolboy passion of giving pain to others.
Sydney Smith.

SIMITAR
Sim"i*tar, n.

Defn: See Scimiter.

SIMMER
Sim"mer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Simmered; p. pr. & vb. n. Simmering.]
Etym: [Prov. E. also simper; -- an onomatopoetic word.]

Defn: To boil gently, or with a gentle hissing; to begin to boil.
I simmer as liquor doth on the fire before it beginneth to boil.
Palsgrave.

SIMMER
Sim"mer, v. t.

Defn: To cause to boil gently; to cook in liquid heated almost or
just to the boiling point.

SIMNEL
Sim"nel, n. Etym: [OF. simenel cake or bread of wheat flour, LL.
simenellus wheat bread, fr. L. simila the finest wheat flour. Cf.
Semolina.]

1. A kind of cake made of fine flour; a cracknel. [Obs.]
Not common bread, but vastel bread, or simnels. Fuller.

2. A kind of rich plum cake, eaten especially on Mid-Lent Sunday.
[Eng.] Herrick.

SIMONIAC
Si*mo"ni*ac, n. Etym: [LL. simoniacus. See Simony.]

Defn: One who practices simony, or who buys or sells preferment in
the church. Ayliffe.

SIMONIACAL
Sim`o*ni"a*cal, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to simony; guilty of simony; consisting of
simony.
 -- Sim"o*ni`a*cal*ly, adv.
The flagitious profligacy of their lives, and the simoniacal arts by
which they grasped at the popedom. J. S. Harford.

SIMONIAL
Si*mo"ni*al, a.

Defn: Simoniacal. [Obs.]

SIMONIAN
Si*mo"ni*an, n.Etym: [See Simony.]

Defn: One of the followers of Simon Magus; also, an adherent of
certain heretical sects in the early Christian church.

SIMONIOUS
Si*mo"ni*ous, a.

Defn: Simoniacal. [Obs.] Milton.

SIMONIST
Sim"o*nist, n.

Defn: One who practices simony.

SIMON-PURE
Si"mon-pure", a.

Defn: Genuine; true; real; authentic; -- a term alluding to the
comedy character Simon Pure, who is impersonated by another and is
obliged to prove himself to be the "real Simon Pure."

SIMONY
Sim"o*ny, n. Etym: [F. simonie, LL. simonia, fr. Simon Magus, who
wished to purchase the power of conferring the Holy Spirit. Acts
viii.]

Defn: The crime of buying or selling ecclesiastical preferment; the
corrupt presentation of any one to an ecclesiastical benefice for
money or reward. Piers Plowman.

SIMOOM; SIMOON
Si*moom", Si*moon", n. Etym: [Ar. sam, fr. samma to poison. Cf.
Samiel.]

Defn: A hot, dry, suffocating, dust-laden wind, that blows
occasionally in Arabia, Syria, and neighboring countries, generated
by the extreme heat of the parched deserts or sandy plains.

SIMOUS
Si"mous, a.Etym: [L. simus, Gr.

Defn: Having a very flat or snub nose, with the end turned up.

SIMPAI
Sim"pai, n.Etym: [Malay simpei.] (Zool.)

Defn: A long-tailed monkey (Semnopitchecus melalophus) native of
Sumatra. It has a crest of black hair. The forehead and cheeks are
fawn color, the upper parts tawny and red, the under parts white.
Called also black-crested monkey, and sinp?.

SIMPER
Sim"per, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Simpered; p. pr. & vb. n. Simpering.]
Etym: [Cf. Norw. semper fine, smart, dial. Dan. semper, simper,
affected, coy, prudish, OSw. semper one who affectedly refrains from
eating, Sw. sipp finical, prim, LG. sipp.]

1. To smile in a silly, affected, or conceited manner.
Behold yond simpering dame. Shak.
With a made countenance about her mouth, between simpering and
smiling. ir. P. Sidney.

2. To glimmer; to twinkle. [Obs.]
Yet can I mark how stars above Simper and shine. Herbert.

SIMPER
Sim"per, n.

Defn: A constrained, self-conscious smile; an affected, silly smile;
a smirk.
The conscious simper, and the jealous leer. Pope.

SIMPERER
Sim"per*er, n.

Defn: One who simpers. Sir W. Scott.
A simperer that a court affords. T. Nevile.

SIMPERING
Sim"per*ing, a. &. n.

Defn: from Simper, v.

SIMPERINGLY
Sim"per*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a simpering manner.

SIMPLE
Sim"ple, a. [Compar. Simpler; superl. Simplest.] Etym: [F., fr. L.
simplus, or simplex, gen. simplicis. The first part of the Latin
words is probably akin to E. same, and the sense, one, one and the
same; cf. L. semel once, singuli one to each, single. Cg. Single, a.,
Same, a., and for the last part of the word cf. Double, Complex.]

1. Single; not complex; not infolded or entangled; uncombined; not
compounded; not blended with something else; not complicated; as, a
simple substance; a simple idea; a simple sound; a simple machine; a
simple problem; simple tasks.

2. Plain; unadorned; as, simple dress. "Simple truth." Spenser. "His
simple story." Burns.

3. Mere; not other than; being only.
A medicine . . . whose simple touch Is powerful to araise King Pepin.
Shak.

4. Not given to artifice, stratagem, or duplicity; undesigning;
sincere; true.
Full many fine men go upon my score, as simple as I stand here, and I
trust them. Marston.
Must thou trust Tradition's simple tongue Byron.
To be simple is to be great. Emerson.

5. Artless in manner; unaffected; unconstrained; natural;
inartificial;; straightforward.
In simple manners all the secret lies. Young.

6. Direct; clear; intelligible; not abstruse or enigmatical; as, a
simple statement; simple language.

7. Weak in intellect; not wise or sagacious; of but moderate
understanding or attainments; hence, foolish; silly. "You have simple
wits." Shak.
The simple believeth every word; but the prudent man looketh well to
his going. Prov. xiv. 15.

8. Not luxurious; without much variety; plain; as, a simple diet; a
simple way of living.
Thy simple fare and all thy plain delights. Cowper.

9. Humble; lowly; undistinguished.
A simple husbandman in garments gray. Spenser.
Clergy and laity, male and female, gentle and simple made the fuel of
the same fire. Fuller.

10. (BOt.)

Defn: Without subdivisions; entire; as, a simple stem; a simple leaf.

11. (Chem.)

Defn: Not capable of being decomposed into anything more simple or
ultimate by any means at present known; elementary; thus, atoms are
regarded as simple bodies. Cf. Ultimate, a.

Note: A simple body is one that has not as yet been decomposed. There
are indications that many of our simple elements are still compound
bodies, though their actual decomposition into anything simpler may
never be accomplished.fundamental particle

12. (Min.)

Defn: Homogenous.

13. (Zool.)

Defn: Consisting of a single individual or zooid; as, a simple
ascidian; -- opposed to compound. Simple contract (Law), any
contract, whether verbal or written, which is not of record or under
seal. J. W. Smith. Chitty.
 -- Simple equation (Alg.), an eqyation containing but one unknown
quantity, and that quantity only in the first degree.
 -- Simple eye (Zool.), an eye having a single lens; -- opposed to
Ant: compound eye.
 -- Simple interest. See under Interest.
 -- Simple larceny. (Law) See under Larceny.
 -- Simple obligation (Rom. Law), an obligation which does not depend
for its execution upon any event provided for by the parties, or is
not to become void on the happening of any such event. Burrill.

Syn.
 -- Single; uncompounded; unmingled; unmixed; mere; uncombined;
elementary; plain; artless; sincere; harmless; undesigning; frank;
open; unaffected; inartificial; unadorned; credulous; silly; foolish;
shallow; unwise.
 -- Simple, Silly. One who is simple is sincere, unaffected, and
inexperienced in duplicity, -- hence liable to be duped. A silly
person is one who is ignorant or weak and also self-confident; hence,
one who shows in speech and act a lack of good sense. Simplicity is
incompatible with duplicity, artfulness, or vanity, while silliness
is consistent with all three. Simplicity denotes lack of knowledge or
of guile; silliness denotes want of judgment or right purpose, a
defect of character as well as of education.
I am a simple woman, much too weak To oppose your cunning. Shak.
He is the companion of the silliest people in their most silly
pleasure; he is ready for every impertinent entertainment and
diversion. Law.

SIMPLE
Sim"ple, n. Etym: [F. See Simple, a.]

1. Something not mixed or compounded. "Compounded of many simples."
Shak.

2. (Med.)

Defn: A medicinal plant; -- so called because each vegetable was
supposed to possess its particular virtue, and therefore to
constitute a simple remedy.
What virtue is in this remedy lies in the naked simple itself as it
comes over from the Indies. Sir W. Temple.

3. (Weaving)
(a) A drawloom.
(b) A part of the apparatus for raising the heddles of a drawloom.

4. (R. C. Ch.)

Defn: A feast which is not a double or a semidouble.

SIMPLE
Sim"ple, v. i.

Defn: To gather simples, or medicinal plants.
As simpling on the flowery hills she [Circe] strayed. Garth.

SIMPLE-HEARTED
Sim"ple-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Sincere; inguenuous; guileless. Sir W. Scott.

SIMPLE-MINDED
Sim"ple-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Artless; guileless; simple-hearted; undesigning; unsuspecting;
devoid of duplicity. Blackstone.
 -- Sim"ple-mind`ed*ness, n.

SIMPLENESS
Sim"ple*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being simple; simplicity. Shak.

SIMPLER
Sim"pler, n.

Defn: One who collects simples, or medicinal plants; a herbalist; a
simplist. Simpler's joy. (Bot.) Vervain.

SIMPLESS
Sim"pless, n. Etym: [F. simplesse.]

Defn: Simplicity; silliness. [Obs.] Spenser.

SIMPLETON
Sim"ple*ton, n. Etym: [Cf. F. simplet, It. semplicione.]

Defn: A person of weak intellect; a silly person.

SIMPLICIAN
Sim*pli"cian, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. simplicien.]

Defn: One who is simple. [Obs.] Arnway.

SIMPLICITY
Sim*plic"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. simplicite, L. simplicitas. See Simple.]

1. The quality or state of being simple, unmixed, or uncompounded;
as, the simplicity of metals or of earths.

2. The quality or state of being not complex, or of consisting of few
parts; as, the simplicity of a machine.

3. Artlessness of mind; freedom from cunning or duplicity; lack of
acuteness and sagacity.
Marquis Dorset, a man, for his harmless simplicity neither misliked
nor much regarded. Hayward.
In wit a man; simplicity a child. Pope.

4. Freedom from artificial ornament, pretentious style, or luxury;
plainness; as, simplicity of dress, of style, or of language;
simplicity of diet; simplicity of life.

5. Freedom from subtlety or abstruseness; clearness; as, the
simplicity of a doctrine; the simplicity of an explanation or a
demonstration.

6. Weakness of intellect; silliness; folly.
How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity and the scorners
delight in their scorning Prov. i. 22.

SIMPLIFICATION
Sim`pli*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. simplification.]

Defn: The act of simplifying. A. Smith.

SIMPLIFY
Sim"pli*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Simplified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Simplifying.] Etym: [Cf. F. simplifier, LL. simplificare. See Simple,
and -fy.]

Defn: To make simple; to make less complex; to make clear by giving
the explanation for; to show an easier or shorter process for doing
or making.
The collection of duties is drawn to a point, and so far simplified.
A. Hamilton.
It is important, in scientific pursuits, to be caitious in
simplifying our deductions. W. Nicholson.

SIMPLIST
Sim"plist, n.

Defn: One skilled in simples, or medicinal plants; a simpler. Sir T.
Browne.

SIMPLISTIC
Sim*plis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to simples, or a simplist. [R.] Wilkinson.

SIMPLITY
Sim"pli*ty, n.

Defn: Simplicity. [Obs.]

SIMPLOCE
Sim"plo*ce, n. (Gram.)

Defn: See Symploce.

SIMPLY
Sim"ply, adv.

1. In a simple manner or state; considered in or by itself; without
addition; along; merely; solely; barely.
[They] make that now good or evil, . . . which otherwise of itself
were not simply the one or the other. Hooker.
Simply the thing I am Shall make me live. Shak.

2. Plainly; without art or subtlety.
Subverting worldly strong and worldly wise By simply meek. Milton.

3. Weakly; foolishly. Johnson.

SIMULACHER; SIMULACHRE
Sim"u*la`cher, Sim"u*la`chre, n. Etym: [Cf. F. simulacre.]

Defn: See Simulacrum. [Obs.]

SIMULACRUM
Sim`u*la"crum, n.; pl. Simulacra. Etym: [L. See Simulate.]

Defn: A likeness; a semblance; a mock appearance; a sham; -- now
usually in a derogatory sense.
Beneath it nothing but a great simulacrum. Thackeray.

SIMULAR
Sim"u*lar, n. Etym: [Cf. L. simulator, F. simulateur. See Simulate.]

Defn: One who pretends to be what he is not; one who, or that which,
simulates or counterfeits something; a pretender. [Obs.] Shak.
Christ calleth the Pharisees hypocrites, that is to say, simulars,
and painted sepulchers. Tyndale.

SIMULAR
Sim"u*lar, a.

Defn: False; specious; counterfeit. [R. & Obs.] "Thou simular man of
virtue." Shak.

SIMULATE
Sim"u*late, a. Etym: [L. simulatus, p. p. of simulare to simulate;
akin to simul at the same time, together, similis like. See Similar,
and cf. Dissemble, Semblance.]

Defn: Feigned; pretended. Bale.

SIMULATE
Sim"u*late, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Simulated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Simulating.]

Defn: To assume the mere appearance of, without the reality; to
assume the signs or indications of, falsely; to counterfeit; to
feign.
The Puritans, even in the depths of the dungeons to which she had
sent them, prayed, and with no simulated fervor, that she might be
kept from the dagger of the assassin. Macaulay.

SIMULATION
Sim`u*la"tion, n. Etym: [F. simulation, L. simulatio.]

Defn: The act of simulating, or assuming an appearance which is
feigned, or not true; -- distinguished from dissimulation, which
disguises or conceals what is true.

Syn.
 -- Counterfeiting; feint; pretense.

SIMULATOR
Sim"u*la`tor, n. Etym: [L.]

Defn: One who simulates, or feigns. De Quincey.

SIMULATORY
Sim"u*la*to*ry, a.

Defn: Simulated, or capable of being simulated. Bp. Hall.

SIMULTANEITY
Si`mul*ta*ne"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being simultaneous; simultaneousness.

SIMULTANEOUS
Si`mul*ta"ne*ous, a. Etym: [LL. simultim at the same time, fr. L.
simul. See Simulate.]

Defn: Existing, happening, or done, at the same time; as,
simultaneous events.
 -- Si`mul*ta"ne*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Si`mul*ta"ne*ous*ness, n. Simultaneous equations (Alg.), two or
more equations in which the values of the unknown quantities entering
them are the same at the same time in both or in all.

SIMULTY
Sim"ul*ty, n. Etym: [L. simultas a hostile encounter, drudge,
originally, a (hostile) coming together, fr. simul together: cf. OF.
simulte.]

Defn: Private grudge or quarrel; as, domestic simulties. [Obs.] B.
Jonson.

SIN
Sin, adv., prep., & conj.

Defn: Old form of Since. [Obs. or Prov.Eng. & Scot.]
Sin that his lord was twenty year of age. Chaucer.

SIN
Sin, n. Etym: [OE. sinne, AS. synn, syn; akin to D. zonde, OS.
sundia, OHG. sunta, G. sunde, Icel., Dan. & Sw. synd, L. sons,
sontis, guilty, perhaps originally from the p. pr. of the verb
signifying, to be, and meaning, the one who it is. Cf. Authentic,
Sooth.]

1. Transgression of the law of God; disobedience of the divine
command; any violation of God's will, either in purpose or conduct;
moral deficiency in the character; iniquity; as, sins of omission and
sins of commission.
Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin. John viii. 34.
Sin is the transgression of the law. 1 John iii. 4.
I think 't no sin. To cozen him that would unjustly win. Shak.
Enthralled By sin to foul, exorbitant desires. Milton.

2. An offense, in general; a violation of propriety; a misdemeanor;
as, a sin against good manners.
I grant that poetry's a crying sin. Pope.

3. A sin offering; a sacrifice for sin.
He hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin. 2 Cor. v. 21.

4. An embodiment of sin; a very wicked person. [R.]
Thy ambition, Thou scarlet sin, robbed this bewailing land Of noble
Buckingham. Shak.

Note: Sin is used in the formation of some compound words of obvious
signification; as, sin-born; sin-bred, sin-oppressed, sin-polluted,
and the like. Actual sin, Canonical sins, Original sin, Venial sin.
See under Actual, Canonical, etc.
 -- Deadly, or Mortal, sins (R. C. Ch.), willful and deliberate
transgressions, which take away divine grace; -- in distinction from
vental sins. The seven deadly sins are pride, covetousness, lust,
wrath, gluttony, envy, and sloth.
 -- Sin eater, a man who (according to a former practice in England)
for a small gratuity ate a piece of bread laid on the chest of a dead
person, whereby he was supposed to have taken the sins of the dead
person upon himself.
 -- Sin offering, a sacrifice for sin; something offered as an
expiation for sin.

Syn.
 -- Iniquity; wickedness; wrong. See Crime.

SIN
Sin, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sinned; p. pr. & vb. n. Sinning.] Etym: [OE.
sinnen, singen, sinegen, AS. syngian. See Sin, n.]

1. To depart voluntarily from the path of duty prescribed by God to
man; to violate the divine law in any particular, by actual
transgression or by the neglect or nonobservance of its injunctions;
to violate any known rule of duty; -- often followed by against.
Against thee, thee only, have I sinned. Ps. li. 4.
All have sinned, and come short of the glory of God. Rom. iii. 23.

2. To violate human rights, law, or propriety; to commit an offense;
to trespass; to transgress.
I am a man More sinned against than sinning. Shak.
Who but wishes to invert the laws Of order, sins against the eternal
cause. Pope.

SINAIC; SINAITIC
Si*na"ic, Si`na*it"ic, a. Etym: [From Mount Sinai.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Mount Sinai; given or made at Mount Sinai;
as, the Sinaitic law. Sinaitic manuscript, a fourth century Greek
manuscript of the part Bible, discovered at Mount Sinai (the greater
part of it in 1859) by Tisschendorf, a German Biblical critic; --
called also Codex Sinaiticus.

SINALBIN
Sin*al"bin, n. Etym: [From L. Sinapis + alba.] (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the seeds of white mustard (Brassica alba,
formerly Sinapis alba), and extracted as a white crystalline
substance.

SINAMINE
Sin*am"ine, n. Etym: [Sinapis + melamine.] (Chem.)

Defn: A bitter white crystalline nitrogenous substance, obtained
indirectly from oil of mustard and ammonia; -- called also allyl
melamine.

SINAPATE
Sin"a*pate, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sinapic acid.

SINAPIC
Sin"a*pic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to sinapine; specifically, designating an acid
(C11H12O5) related to gallic acid, and obtained by the decomposition
of sinapine, as a white crystalline substance.

SINAPINE
Sin"a*pine, n. Etym: [L. sinapi, sinapis, mustard, Gr. sinapine.]
(Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid occuring in the seeds of mustard. It is extracted,
in combination with sulphocyanic acid, as a white crystalline
substance, having a hot, bitter taste. When sinapine is isolated it
is unstable and undergoes decomposition.

SINAPIS
Si*na"pis, n. Etym: [L.] (Bot.)

Defn: A disused generic name for mustard; -- now called Brassica.

SINAPISIN
Sin"a*pis`in, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance extracted from mustard seed and probably identical
with sinalbin. [Obs.]

SINAPISM
Sin"a*pism, n. Etym: [L. sinapismus, Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A plaster or poultice composed principally of powdered mustard
seed, or containing the volatile oil of mustard seed. It is a
powerful irritant.

SINAPOLEIC
Sin`a*po*le"ic, a. Etym: [Sinapis + oleic.] (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to mustard oil; specifically, designating an
acid of the oleic acid series said to occur in mistard oil.

SINAPOLINE
Si*nap"o*line, n. Etym: [Sinapis + L. oleum oil.] (Chem.)

Defn: A nitrogenous base, CO.(NH.C3H5)2, related to urea, extracted
from mustard oil, and also produced artifically, as a white
crystalline substance; -- called also diallyl urea.

SINCALINE
Sin"ca*line, n. Etym: [So called because obtained by the action of
alkalies on sinapine.] (Chem.)

Defn: Choline. [Written also sinkaline.]

SINCE
Since, adv. Etym: [For sins, contr. fr. OE. sithens, sithenes, formed
by an adverbial ending (cf. Besides) from OE. sithen, also shortened
into sithe, sin, AS. si, sy, seo, afterward, then, since, after;
properly, after that; fr. sisi afterward, since, OHG. sid, G. seit
since, Goth. seipus late, ni sei no longer) + instrumental of the
demonstrative and article. See That.]

1. From a definite past time until now; as, he went a month ago, and
I have not seen him since.
We since become the slaves to one man's lust. B. Jonson.

2. In the time past, counting backward from the present; before this
or now; ago.
w many ages since has Virgil writ Roscommon.
About two years since, it so fell out, that he was brought to a great
lady's house. Sir P. Sidney.

3. When or that. [Obs.]
Do you remember since we lay all night in the windmill in St.
George's field Shak.

SINCE
Since, prep.

Defn: From the time of; in or during the time subsequent to;
subsequently to; after; -- usually with a past event or time for the
object.
The Lord hath blessed thee, since my coming. Gen. xxx. 30.
I have a model by which he build a nobler poem than any extant since
the ancients. Dryden.

SINCE
Since, conj.

Defn: Seeing that; because; considering; -- formerly followed by
that.
Since that my penitence comes after all, Imploring pardon. Shak.
Since truth and constancy are vain, Since neither love, nor sense of
pain, Nor force of reason, can persuade, Then let example be obeyed.
Granville.

Syn.
 -- Because; for; as; inasmuch as; considering. See Because.

SINCERE
Sin*cere", a. [Compar. Sincerer; superl. Sincerest.] Etym: [L.
sincerus, of uncertain origin; the first part perhaps akin to sin- in
singuli (see Single), and the second to cernere to separate (cf.
Discern): cf. F. sincere.]

1. Pure; unmixed; unadulterated.
There is no sincere acid in any animal juice. Arbuthnot.
A joy which never was sincere till now. Dryden.

2. Whole; perfect; unhurt; uninjured. [Obs.]
The inviolable body stood sincere. Dryden.

3. Being in reality what it appears to be; having a character which
corresponds with the appearance; not falsely assumed; genuine; true;
real; as, a sincere desire for knowledge; a sincere contempt for
meanness.
A sincere intention of pleasing God in all our actions. Law.

4. Honest; free from hypocrisy or dissimulation; as, a sincere
friend; a sincere person.
The more sincere you are, the better it will fare with you at the
great day of account. Waterland.

Syn.
 -- Honest; unfeigned; unvarnished; real; true; unaffected;
inartificial; frank; upright. See Hearty.

SINCERELY
Sin*cere"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sincere manner. Specifically:
(a) Purely; without alloy. Milton.
(b) Honestly; unfeignedly; without dissimulation; as, to speak one's
mind sincerely; to love virtue sincerely.

SINCERENESS
Sin*cere"ness, n.

Defn: Same as Sincerity. Beau & Fl.

SINCERITY
Sin*cer"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. sinceritas: cf. F. sincerite.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sincere; honesty of mind or
intention; freedom from simulation, hypocrisy, disguise, or false
pretense; sincereness.
I protest, in the sincerity of love. Shak.
Sincerity is a duty no less plain than important. Knox.

SINCH
Sinch, n. Etym: [See Cinch.]

Defn: A saddle girth made of leather, canvas, woven horsehair, or
woven grass. [Western U.S.]

SINCH
Sinch, v. t.

Defn: To gird with a sinch; to tighten the sinch or girth of (a
saddle); as, to sinch up a sadle. [Western U.S.]

SINCIPITAL
Sin*cip"i*tal, a. (Anat.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the sinciput; being in the region of the
sinciput.

SINCIPUT
Sin"ci*put, n. Etym: [L., half a head; semihalf + caput the head.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The fore part of the head.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The part of the head of a bird between the base of the bill and
the vertex.

SINDI
Sind"i, n. [Ar. Sindi, fr. Sind Indian, Skr. sindhu river, sea, the
river Indus, the country along the Indus. Cf. Indian, Hindoo.]
(Ethnol.)

Defn: A native of Sind, India, esp. one of the native Hindoo stock.

SINDON
Sin"don, n. Etym: [L., a kind of fine Indian cotton stuff, Gr.

1. A wrapper. [Obs.] "Wrapped in sindons of linen." Bacon.

2. (Surg.)

Defn: A small rag or pledget introduced into the hole in the cranium
made by a trephine. Dunglison.

SINE
Sine, n. Etym: [LL. sinus a sine, L. sinus bosom, used in translating
the Ar. jaib, properly, bosom, but probably read by mistake (the
consonants being the same) for an original jiba sine, from Skr. jiva
bowstring, chord of an arc, sine.] (Trig.)
(a) The length of a perpendicular drawn from one extremity of an arc
of a circle to the diameter drawn through the other extremity.
(b) The perpendicular itself. See Sine of angle, below. Artificial
sines, logarithms of the natural sines, or logarithmic sines.
 -- Curve of sines. See Sinusoid.
 -- Natural sines, the decimals expressing the values of the sines,
the radius being unity.
 -- Sine of an angle, in a circle whose radius is unity, the sine of
the arc that measures the angle; in a right-angled triangle, the side
opposite the given angle divided by the hypotenuse. See
Trigonometrical function, under Function.
 -- Versed sine, that part of the diameter between the sine and the
arc.

SINE
Si"ne, prep. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Without.

SINECURAL
Si"ne*cu`ral, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sinecure; being in the nature of a
sinecure.

SINECURE
Si`ne*cure, n. Etym: [L. sine without + cura care, LL., a cure. See
Cure.]

1. An ecclesiastical benefice without the care of souls. Ayliffe.

2. Any office or position which requires or involves little or no
responsibility, labor, or active service.
A lucrative sinecure in the Excise. Macaulay.

SINECURE
Si"ne*cure, v. t.

Defn: To put or place in a sinecure.

SINECURISM
Si"ne*cu*rism, n.

Defn: The state of having a sinecure.

SINECURIST
Si"ne*cu*rist, n.

Defn: One who has a sinecure.

SINEW
Sin"ew, n. Etym: [OE. sinewe, senewe, AS. sinu, seonu; akin to D.
zenuw, OHG. senawa, G. sehne, Icel. sin, Sw. sena, Dan. sene; cf.
Skr. snava. sq. root290.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: A tendon or tendonous tissue. See Tendon.

2. Muscle; nerve. [R.] Sir J. Davies.

3. Fig.: That which supplies strength or power.
The portion and sinew of her fortune, her marriage dowry. Shak.
The bodies of men, munition, and money, may justly be called the
sinews of war. Sir W. Raleigh.

Note: Money alone is often called the sinews of war.

SINEW
Sin"ew, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sinewed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sinewing.]

Defn: To knit together, or make strong with, or as with, sinews.
Shak.
Wretches, now stuck up for long tortures . . . might, if properly
treated, serve to sinew the state in time of danger. Goldsmith.

SINEWED
Sin"ewed, a.

1. Furnished with sinews; as, a strong-sinewed youth.

2. Fig.: Equipped; strengthened.
When he sees Ourselves well sinewed to our defense. Shak.

SINEWINESS
Sin"ew*i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being sinewy.

SINEWISH
Sin"ew*ish, a.

Defn: Sinewy. [Obs.] Holinshed.

SINEWLESS
Sin"ew*less, a.

Defn: Having no sinews; hence, having no strength or vigor.

SINEWOUS
Sin"ew*ous, a.

Defn: Sinewy. [Obs.] Holinshed.

SINEW-SHRUNK
Sin"ew-shrunk`, a. (Far.)

Defn: Having the sinews under the belly shrunk by excessive fatigue.

SINEWY
Sin"ew*y, a.

1. Pertaining to, consisting of, or resembling, a sinew or sinews.
The sinewy thread my brain lets fall. Donne.

2. Well braced with, or as if with, sinews; nervous; vigorous;
strong; firm; tough; as, the sinewy Ajax.
A man whose words . . . were so close and sinewy. Hare.

SINFUL
Sin"ful, a. Etym: [AAS. synfull.]

Defn: Tainted with, or full of, sin; wicked; iniquitous; criminal;
unholy; as, sinful men; sinful thoughts. Piers Plowman.
Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Isa. i. 4.
-- Sin"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Sin"ful*ness, n.

SING
Sing, v. i. [imp. Sung or Sang (; p. p. Sung; p. pr. & vb. n.
Singing.] Etym: [AS. singan; akin to D. zingen, OS. & OHG. singan, G.
singen, Icel. syngja, Sw. sjunga, Dan. synge, Goth. siggwan, and
perhaps to E. say, v.t., or cf. Gr. Singe, Song.]

1. To utter sounds with musical inflections or melodious modulations
of voice, as fancy may dictate, or according to the notes of a song
or tune, or of a given part (as alto, tenor, etc.) in a chorus or
concerted piece.
The noise of them that sing do I hear. Ex. xxxii. 18.

2. To utter sweet melodious sounds, as birds do.
On every bough the briddes heard I sing. Chaucer.
Singing birds, in silver cages hung. Dryden.

3. To make a small, shrill sound; as, the air sings in passing
through a crevice.
O'er his head the flying spear Sang innocent, and spent its force in
air. Pope.

4. To tell or relate something in numbers or verse; to celebrate
something in poetry. Milton.
Bid her . . . sing Of human hope by cross event destroyed. Prior.

5. Ti cry out; to complain. [Obs.]
They should sing if thet they were bent. Chaucer.

SING
Sing, v. t.

1. To utter with musical infections or modulations of voice.
And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, and the song of
the Lamb. Rev. xv. 3.
And in the darkness sing your carol of high praise. Keble.

2. To celebrate is song; to give praises to in verse; to relate or
rehearse in numbers, verse, or poetry. Milton.
Arms and the man I sing. Dryden.
The last, the happiest British king, Whom thou shalt paint or I shall
sing. Addison.

3. To influence by singing; to lull by singing; as, to sing a child
to sleep.

4. To accompany, or attend on, with singing.
I heard them singing home the bride. Longfellow.

SINGE
Singe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Singed; p. pr. & vb. n. Singeing.] Etym:
[OE. sengen, AS. sengan in besengan (akin to D. zengen, G. sengen),
originally, to cause to sing, fr. AS. singan to sing, in allusion to
the singing or hissing sound often produced when a substance is
singed, or slightly burned. See Sing.]

1. To burn slightly or superficially; to burn the surface of; to burn
the ends or outside of; as, to singe the hair or the skin.
You sulphurous and thought-executing fires, . . . Singe my white
head! Shak.
I singed the toes of an ape through a burning glass. L'Estrange.

2.
(a) To remove the nap of (cloth), by passing it rapidly over a red-
hot bar, or over a flame, preliminary to dyeing it.
(b) To remove the hair or down from (a plucked chicken or the like)
by passing it over a flame.

SINGE
Singe, n.

Defn: A burning of the surface; a slight burn.

SINGER
Sin"ger, n. Etym: [From Singe.]

Defn: One who, or that which, singes. Specifically:
(a) One employed to singe cloth.
(b) A machine for singeing cloth.

SINGER
Sing"er, n. Etym: [From Sing.]

Defn: One who sings; especially, one whose profession is to sing.

SINGERESS
Sing"er*ess, n.

Defn: A songstress. [Obs.] Wyclif.

SINGHALESE
Sin`gha*lese", n. & a. Etym: [Skr.Si Ceylon.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: Same as Cingalese.

SINGING
Sing"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Sing, v. Singing bird. (Zool.) (a) Popularly, any bird
that sings; a song bird. (b) Specifically, any one of the Oscines.
 -- Singing book, a book containing music for singing; a book of
tunes.
 -- Singing falcon or hawk. (Zool.) See Chanting falcon, under
Chanting.
 -- Singing fish (Zool.), a California toadfish (Porichthys
porosissimus).
 -- Singing flame (Acoustics), a flame, as of hydrogen or coal gas,
burning within a tube and so adjusted as to set the air within the
tube in vibration, causing sound. The apparatus is called also
chemical harmonicon.
 -- Singing master, a man who teaches vocal music.
 -- Singing school, a school in which persons are instructed in
singing.

SINGINGLY
Sing"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With sounds like singing; with a kind of tune; in a singing
tone. G. North (1575).

SINGLE
Sin"gle, a. Etym: [L. singulus, a dim. from the root in simplex
simple; cf. OE. & OF. sengle, fr. L. singulus. See Simple, and cf.
Singular.]

1. One only, as distinguished from more than one; consisting of one
alone; individual; separate; as, a single star.
No single man is born with a right of controlling the opinions of all
the rest. Pope.

2. Alone; having no companion.
Who single hast maintained, Against revolted multitudes, the cause Of
truth. Milton.

3. Hence, unmarried; as, a single man or woman.
Grows, lives, and dies in single blessedness. Shak.
Single chose to live, and shunned to wed. Dryden.

4. Not doubled, twisted together, or combined with others; as, a
single thread; a single strand of a rope.

5. Performed by one person, or one on each side; as, a single combat.
These shifts refuted, answer thy appellant, . . . Who now defles thee
thrice ti single fight. Milton.

6. Uncompounded; pure; unmixed.
Simple ideas are opposed to complex, and single to compound. I.
Watts.

7. Not deceitful or artful; honest; sincere.
I speak it with a single heart. Shak.

8. Simple; not wise; weak; silly. [Obs.]
He utters such single matter in so infantly a voice. Beau & Fl.
Single ale, beer, or drink, small ale, etc., as contrasted with
double ale, etc., which is stronger. [Obs.] Nares.
 -- Single bill (Law), a written engagement, generally under seal,
for the payment of money, without a penalty. Burril.
 -- Single court (Lawn Tennis), a court laid out for only two
players.
 -- Single-cut file. See the Note under 4th File.
 -- Single entry. See under Bookkeeping.
 -- Single file. See under 1st File.
 -- Single flower (Bot.), a flower with but one set of petals, as a
wild rose.
 -- Single knot. See Illust. under Knot.
 -- Single whip (Naut.), a single rope running through a fixed block.

SINGLE
Sin"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Singled; p. pr. & vb. n. Singling.]

1. To select, as an individual person or thing, from among a number;
to choose out from others; to separate.
Dogs who hereby can single out their master in the dark. Bacon.
His blood! she faintly screamed her mind Still singling one from all
mankind. More.

2. To sequester; to withdraw; to retire. [Obs.]
An agent singling itself from consorts. Hooker.

3. To take alone, or one by one.
Men . . . commendable when they are singled. Hooker.

SINGLE
Sin"gle, v. i.

Defn: To take the irrregular gait called single-foot;- said of a
horse. See Single-foot.
Many very fleet horses, when overdriven, adopt a disagreeable gait,
which seems to be a cross between a pace and a trot, in which the two
legs of one side are raised almost but not quite, simultaneously.
Such horses are said to single, or to be single-footed. W. S. Clark.

SINGLE
Sin"gle, n.

1. A unit; one; as, to score a single.

2. pl.

Defn: The reeled filaments of silk, twisted without doubling to give
them firmness.

3. A handful of gleaned grain. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

4. (Law Tennis)

Defn: A game with but one player on each side; -- usually in the
plural.

5. (Baseball)

Defn: A hit by a batter which enables him to reach first base only.

SINGLE-ACTING
Sin"gle-act`ing, a.

Defn: Having simplicity of action; especially (Mach.), acting or
exerting force during strokes in one direction only; -- said of a
reciprocating engine, pump, etc.

SINGLE-BREASTED
Sin"gle-breast`ed, a.

Defn: Lapping over the breast only far enough to permit of buttoning,
and having buttons on one edge only; as, a single-breasted coast.

SINGLE-FOOT
Sin"gle-foot`, n.

Defn: An irregular gait of a horse; -- called also single-footed
pace. See Single, v. i.
Single-foot is an irregular pace, rather rare, distinguished by the
posterior extremities moving in the order of a fast walk, and the
anterior extremities in that of a slow trot. Stillman (The Horse in
Motion.)

SINGLE-HANDED
Sin"gle-hand"ed, a.

Defn: Having but one hand, or one workman; also, alone; unassisted.

SINGLE-HEARTED
Sin"gle-heart"ed, a.

Defn: Having an honest heart; free from duplicity.
 -- Sin"gle-heart"ed*ly, adv.

SINGLE-MINDED
Sin"gle-mind"ed, a.

Defn: Having a single purpose; hence, artless; guileless; single-
hearted.

SINGLENESS
Sin"gle*ness, n.

1. The quality or state of being single, or separate from all others;
the opposite of doubleness, complication, or multiplicity.

2. Freedom from duplicity, or secondary and selfish ends; purity of
mind or purpose; simplicity; sincerity; as, singleness of purpose;
singleness of heart.

SINGLES
Sin"gles, n. pl.

Defn: See Single, n., 2.

SINGLESTICK
Sin"gle*stick`, n.
(a) In England and Scotland, a cudgel used in fencing or fighting; a
backsword.
(b) The game played with singlesticks, in which he who first brings
blood from his adversary's head is pronounced victor; backsword;
cudgeling.

SINGLE-SURFACED
Sin"gle-sur"faced, a.

Defn: Having one surface; -- said specif. of aeroplanes or aerocurves
that are covered with fabric, etc., on only one side.

SINGLET
Sin"glet, n.

Defn: An unlined or undyed waistcoat; a single garment; -- opposed to
doublet. [Prov. Eng.]

SINGLE TAX
Sin"gle tax`. (Pol. Econ.)

Defn: A tax levied upon land alone, irrespective of improvements, --
advocated by certain economists as the sole source of public revenue.

Whatever may be thought of Henry George's single-tax theory as a
whole, there can be little question that a relatively higher
assessment of ground rent, with corresponding relief for those who
have made improvements, is a much-needed reform.
A. T. Hadley.

SINGLETON
Sin"gle*ton, n.

Defn: In certain games at cards, as whist, a single card of any suit
held at the deal by a player; as, to lead a singleton.

SINGLETREE
Sin"gle*tree`, n. Etym: [Cf. Swingletree.]

Defn: The pivoted or swinging bar to which the traces of a harnessed
horse are fixed; a whiffletree.

Note: When two horses draw abreast, a singletree is fixed at each end
of another crosspiece, called the doubletree.

SINGLY
Sin"gly, adv.

1. Individually; particularly; severally; as, to make men singly and
personally good.

2. Only; by one's self; alone.
Look thee, 't is so! Thou singly honest man. Shak.

3. Without partners, companions, or associates; single-handed; as, to
attack another singly.
At omber singly to decide their doom. Pope.

4. Honestly; sincerely; simply. [R.] Johnson.

5. Singularly; peculiarly. [Obs.] Milton.

SING-SING
Sing"-sing`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The kob.

SINGSONG
Sing"song`, n.

1. Bad singing or poetry.

2. A drawling or monotonous tone, as of a badly executed song.

SINGSONG
Sing"song`, a.

Defn: Drawling; monotonous.

SINGSONG
Sing"song`, v. i.

Defn: To write poor poetry. [R.] Tennyson.

SINGSPIEL
Sing"spiel`, n. [G.; singen to sing + spiel to play.] (Music)

Defn: A dramatic work, partly in dialogue and partly in song, of a
kind popular in Germany in the latter part of the 18th century. It
was often comic, had modern characters, and patterned its music on
folk song with strictly subordinated accompaniment.

SINGSTER
Sing"ster, n.

Defn: A songstress. [Obs.] Wyclif.

SINGULAR
Sin"gu*lar, a. Etym: [OE. singuler, F. singulier, fr. L. singularius,
singularis, fr. singulus single. See Single, a.]

1. Separate or apart from others; single; distinct. [Obs.] Bacon.
And God forbid that all a company Should rue a singular man's folly.
Chaucer.

2. Engaged in by only one on a side; single. [Obs.]
To try the matter thus together in a singular combat. Holinshed.

3. (Logic)

Defn: Existing by itself; single; individual.
The idea which represents one . . . determinate thing, is called a
singular idea, whether simple, complex, or compound. I. Watts.

4. (Law)

Defn: Each; individual; as, to convey several parcels of land, all
and singular.

5. (Gram.)

Defn: Denoting one person or thing; as, the singular number; --
opposed to dual and Ant: plural.

6. Standing by itself; out of the ordinary course; unusual; uncommon;
strange; as, a singular phenomenon.
So singular a sadness Must have a cause as strange as the effect.
Denham.

7. Distinguished as existing in a very high degree; rarely equaled;
eminent; extraordinary; exceptional; as, a man of singular gravity or
attainments.

8. Departing from general usage or expectations; odd; whimsical; --
often implying disapproval or consure.
His zeal None seconded, as out of season judged, Or singular and
rash. Milton.
To be singular in anything that is wise and worthy, is not a
disparagement, but a praise. Tillotson.

9. Being alone; belonging to, or being, that of which there is but
one; unique.
These busts of the emperors and empresses are all very scarce, and
some of them almost singular in their kind. Addison.
Singular point in a curve (Math.), a point at which the curve
possesses some peculiar properties not possessed by other points of
the curve, as a cusp point, or a multiple point.
 -- Singular proposition (Logic), a proposition having as its subject
a singular term, or a common term limited to an individual by means
of a singular sign. Whately.
 -- Singular succession (Civil Law), division among individual
successors, as distinguished from universal succession, by which an
estate descended in intestacy to the heirs in mass.
 -- Singular term (Logic), a term which represents or stands for a
single individual.

Syn.
 -- Unexampled; unprecedented; eminent; extraordinary; remarkable;
uncommon; rare; unusual; peculiar; strange; odd; eccentric;
fantastic.

SINGULAR
Sin"gu*lar, n.

1. An individual instance; a particular. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

2. (Gram)

Defn: The singular number, or the number denoting one person or
thing; a word in the singular number.

SINGULARIST
Sin"gu*lar*ist, n.

Defn: One who affects singularity. [Obs.]
A clownish singularist, or nonconformist to ordinary usage. Borrow.

SINGULARITY
Sin`gu*lar"i*ty, n.; pl. Singularities. Etym: [L. singularitas: cf.
F. singularite.]

1. The quality or state of being singular; some character or quality
of a thing by which it is distinguished from all, or from most,
others; peculiarity.
Pliny addeth this singularity to that soil, that the second year the
very falling down of the seeds yieldeth corn. Sir. W. Raleigh.
I took notice of this little figure for the singularity of the
instrument. Addison.

2. Anything singular, rare, or curious.
Your gallery Have we passed through, not without much content In many
singularities. Shak.

3. Possession of a particular or exclusive privilege, prerogative, or
distinction.
No bishop of Rome ever took upon him this name of singularity
[universal bishop]. Hooker.
Catholicism . . . must be understood in opposition to the legal
singularity of the Jewish nation. Bp. Pearson.

4. Celibacy. [Obs.] Jer. Taylor.

SINGULARIZE
Sin"gu*lar*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make singular or single; to distinguish. [R.]

SINGULARLY
Sin"gu*lar*ly, adv.

1. In a singular manner; in a manner, or to a degree, not common to
others; extraordinarily; as, to be singularly exact in one's
statements; singularly considerate of others. "Singularly handsome."
Milman.

2. Strangely; oddly; as, to behave singularly.

3. So as to express one, or the singular number.

SINGULT
Sin"gult, n.Etym: [L. singultus.]

Defn: A sigh or sobbing; also, a hiccough. [Obs.] Spenser. W. Browne.

SINGULTOUS
Sin*gul"tous, a. (Med.)

Defn: Relating to, or affected with, hiccough. Dunglison.

SINGULTUS
Sin*gul"tus, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Hiccough.

SINIC
Sin"ic, a. [See Sinologue.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Chinese and allied races; Chinese.

SINICAL
Sin"i*cal, a. Etym: [From Sine.] (Trig.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sine; employing, or founded upon, sines;
as, a sinical quadrant.

SINICISM
Sin"i*cism, n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: Anything peculiar to the Chinese; esp., a Chinese peculiarity
in manners or customs.

SINIGRIN
Sin"i*grin, n. Etym: [From NL. Sinapis nigra.] (Chem.)

Defn: A glucoside found in the seeds of black mustard (Brassica
nigra, formerly Sinapis nigra) It resembles sinalbin, and consists of
a potassium salt of myronic acid.

SINISTER
Sin"is*ter, a. Etym: [Accented on the middle syllable by the older
poets, as Shakespeare, Milton, Dryden.] Etym: [L. sinister: cf. F.
sinistre.]

1. On the left hand, or the side of the left hand; left; -- opposed
to dexter, or right. "Here on his sinister cheek." Shak.
My mother's blood Runs on the dexter cheek, and this sinister Bounds
in my father's Shak.

Note: In heraldy the sinister side of an escutcheon is the side which
would be on the left of the bearer of the shield, and opposite the
right hand of the beholder.

2. Unlucky; inauspicious; disastrous; injurious; evil; -- the left
being usually regarded as the unlucky side; as, sinister influences.
All the several ills that visit earth, Brought forth by night, with a
sinister birth. B. Jonson.

3. Wrong, as springing from indirection or obliquity; perverse;
dishonest; corrupt; as, sinister aims.
Nimble and sinister tricks and shifts. Bacon.
He scorns to undermine another's interest by any sinister or inferior
arts. South.
He read in their looks . . . sinister intentions directed
particularly toward himself. Sir W. Scott.

4. Indicative of lurking evil or harm; boding covert danger; as, a
sinister countenance. Bar sinister. (Her.) See under Bar, n.
 -- Sinister aspect (Astrol.), an appearance of two planets happening
according to the succession of the signs, as Saturn in Aries, and
Mars in the same degree of Gemini.
 -- Sinister base, Sinister chief. See under Escutcheon.

SINISTER-HANDED
Sin"is*ter-hand"ed, a.

Defn: Left-handed; hence, unlucky. [Obs.] Lovelace.

SINISTERLY
Sin"is*ter*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sinister manner. Wood.

SINISTRAD
Sin"is*trad, adv. Etym: [L. sinistra the left hand + ad tp.] (Anat. &
Zool.)

Defn: Toward the left side; sinistrally.

SINISTRAL
Sin"is*tral, a.

1. Of or pertaining to the left, inclining to the left; sinistrous; -
- opposed to dextral.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the whorls of the spire revolving or rising to the left;
reversed; -- said of certain spiral shells.

SINISTRALITY
Sin`is*tral"i*ty, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sinistral.

SINISTRALLY
Sin"is*tral*ly, adv.

Defn: Toward the left; in a sinistral manner. J. Le Conte.

SINISTRIN
Sin"is*trin, n. Etym: [L. sinister left.] (Chem.)

Defn: A mucilaginous carbohydrate, resembling achroodextrin,
extracted from squill as a colorless amorphous substance; -- so
called because it is levorotatory.

SINISTRORSAL
Sin`is*tror"sal, a. Etym: [L.sinistrorsus, sinistroversus, turned
toward the left side; sinister left + vertere, vortere, versum,
vorsum, to turn.]

Defn: Rising spirally from right to left (of the spectator);
sinistrorse.

SINISTRORSE
Sin"is*trorse`, a. Etym: [See Sinistrolsal.]

Defn: Turning to the left (of the spectator) in the ascending line; -
- the opposite of dextrorse. See Dextrorse.

SINISTROUS
Sin"is*trous, a. Etym: [See Sinister.]

1. Being on the left side; inclined to the left; sinistral.
"Sinistrous gravity." Sir T. Browne.

2. Wrong; absurd; perverse.
A knave or fool can do no harm, even by the most sinistrous and
absurd choice. Bentley.

SINISTROUSLY
Sin"is*trous*ly, adv.

1. In a sinistrous manner; perversely; wrongly; unluckily.

2. With a tendency to use the left hand.
Many, in their infancy, are sinistrously disposed, and divers
continue all their life left-handed. Sir T. Browne.

SINK
Sink, v. i. [imp. Sunk, or (Sank (); p. p. Sunk (obs. Sunken, -- now
used as adj.); p. pr. & vb. n. Sinking.] Etym: [OE. sinken, AS.
sincan; akin to D. zinken, OS. sincan, G. sinken, Icel. sokkva, Dan.
synke, Sw. sjunka, Goth. siggan, and probably to E. silt. Cf. Silt.]

1. To fall by, or as by, the force of gravity; to descend lower and
lower; to decline gradually; to subside; as, a stone sinks in water;
waves rise and sink; the sun sinks in the west.
I sink in deep mire. Ps. lxix. 2.

2. To enter deeply; to fall or retire beneath or below the surface;
to penetrate.
The stone sunk into his forehead. 1 San. xvii. 49.

3. Hence, to enter so as to make an abiding impression; to enter
completely.
Let these sayings sink down into your ears. Luke ix. 44.

4. To be overwhelmed or depressed; to fall slowly, as so the ground,
from weakness or from an overburden; to fail in strength; to decline;
to decay; to decrease.
I think our country sinks beneath the yoke. Shak.
He sunk down in his chariot. 2 Kings ix. 24.
Let not the fire sink or slacken. Mortimer.

5. To decrease in volume, as a river; to subside; to become
diminished in volume or in apparent height.
The Alps and Pyreneans sink before him. Addison.

Syn.
 -- To fall; subside; drop; droop; lower; decline; decay; decrease;
lessen.

SINK
Sink, v. t.

1. To cause to sink; to put under water; to immerse or submerge in a
fluid; as, to sink a ship.
[The Athenians] fell upon the wings and sank a single ship. Jowett
(Thucyd.).

2. Figuratively: To cause to decline; to depress; to degrade; hence,
to ruin irretrievably; to destroy, as by drowping; as, to sink one's
reputation.
I raise of sink, imprison or set free. Prior.
If I have a conscience, let it sink me. Shak.
Thy cruel and unnatural lust of power Has sunk thy father more than
all his years. Rowe.

3. To make (a depression) by digging, delving, or cutting, etc.; as,
to sink a pit or a well; to sink a die.

4. To bring low; to reduce in quantity; to waste.
You sunk the river repeated draughts. Addison.

5. To conseal and appropriate. [Slang]
If sent with ready money to buy anything, and you happen to be out of
pocket, sink the money, and take up the goods on account. Swift.

6. To keep out of sight; to suppress; to ignore.
A courtly willingness to sink obnoxious truths. Robertson.

7. To reduce or extinguish by payment; as, to sink the national debt.

SINK
Sink, n.

1. A drain to carry off filthy water; a jakes.

2. A shallow box or vessel of wood, stone, iron, or other material,
connected with a drain, and used for receiving filthy water, etc., as
in a kitchen.

3. A hole or low place in land or rock, where waters sink and are
lost; -- called also sink hole. [U. S.] Sink hole. (a) The opening to
a sink drain. (b) A cesspool. (c) Same as Sink, n., 3.

SINKER
Sink"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sinks. Specifically:
(a) A weight on something, as on a fish line, to sink it.
(b) In knitting machines, one of the thin plates, blades, or other
devices, that depress the loops upon or between the needles. Dividing
sinker, in knitting machines, a sinker between two jack sinkers and
acting alternately with them.
 -- Jack sinker. See under Jack, n.
 -- Sinker bar. (a) In knitting machines, a bar to which one set of
the sinkers is attached. (b) In deep well boring, a heavy bar forming
a connection between the lifting rope and the boring tools, above the
jars.

SINKING
Sink"ing, a & n.

Defn: from Sink. Sinking fund. See under Fund.
 -- Sinking head (Founding), a riser from which the mold is fed as
the casting shrinks. See Riser, n., 4.
 -- Sinking pump, a pump which can be lowered in a well or a mine
shaft as the level of the water sinks.

SINLESS
Sin"less, a.

Defn: Free from sin. Piers Plowman.
 -- Sin"less*ly, adv.
 -- Sin"less*ness, n.

SINNER
Sin"ner, n.

Defn: One who has sinned; especially, one who has sinned without
repenting; hence, a persistent and incorrigible transgressor; one
condemned by the law of God.

SINNER
Sin"ner, v. i.

Defn: To act as a sinner. [Humorous]
Whether the charmer sinner it or saint it. Pope.

SINNERESS
Sin"ner*ess, n.

Defn: A woman who sins. [Obs.]

SINNET
Sin"net, n.

Defn: See Sennit .

SINOLOGICAL
Sin`o*log"ic*al, a. Etym: [See Sinilogue.]

Defn: Relating to the Chinese language or literature.

SINOLOGIST
Si*nol"o*gist, n.

Defn: A sinilogue.

SINOLOGUE
Sin"o*logue, n. Etym: [From L. Sinae, an Oriental people mentioned by
Ptolemy, or Ar. Sin China or the Chinese + Gr. theologue: cf. F.
sinologue.]

Defn: A student of Chinese; one versed in the Chinese language,
literature, and history.

SINOLOGY
Si*nol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sinologie.]

Defn: That branch of systemized knowledge which treats of the
Chinese, their language, literature, etc.

SINOPER
Sin"o*per, n. (Min.)

Defn: Sinople.

SINOPIA; SINOPIS
Si*no"pi*a, Si*no"pis, n.

Defn: A red pigment made from sinopite.

SINOPITE
Sin"o*pite, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. sinopis (sc. terra), a red earth or
ocher found in Sinope, a town in Paphlagoma, on the Black Sea, Gr.
(Min.)

Defn: A brickred ferruginous clay used by the ancients for red paint.

SINOPLE
Sin"o*ple, n. (Min.)

Defn: Ferruginous quartz, of a blood-red or brownish red color,
sometimes with a tinge of yellow.

SINOPLE
Sin"o*ple, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. sinopis. See Sinople a mineral.]
(Her.)

Defn: The tincture vert; green.

SINQUE
Sinque, n.

Defn: See Cinque. [Obs.] Beau & Fl.

SINSRING
Sins"ring, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Banxring.

SINTER
Sin"ter, n. Etym: [G. Cf. Cinder.] (Min.)

Defn: Dross, as of iron; the scale which files from iron when
hammered; -- applied as a name to various minerals. Calcareous
sinter, a loose banded variety of calcite formed by deposition from
lime-bearing waters; calcareous tufa; travertine.
 -- Ceraunian sinter, fulgurite.
 -- Siliceous sinter, a light cellular or fibrous opal; especially,
geyserite (see Geyserite). It has often a pearly luster, and is then
called pearl sinter.

SINTO; SINTU; SINTOISM; SINTOIST
Sin"to, or Sin"tu, Sin"to*ism, Sin"to*ist.

Defn: See Shinto, etc.

SINTOC
Sin"toc, n.

Defn: A kind of spice used in the East Indies, consisting of the bark
of a species of Cinnamomum. [Written also sindoc.]

SINUATE
Sin"u*ate, a. Etym: [L. sinuatus, p. p. of sinuare to wind, bend, fr.
sinus a bend.]

Defn: Having the margin alternately curved inward and outward; having
rounded lobes separated by rounded sinuses; sinuous; wavy.

SINUATE
Sin"u*ate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sinuated; p. pr. & vb. n. Sinuating.]

Defn: To bend or curve in and out; to wind; to turn; to be sinusous.
Woodward.

SINUATED
Sin"u*a`ted, a.

Defn: Same as Sinuate.

SINUATION
Sin`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [L. sinuatio.]

Defn: A winding or bending in and out.

SINUOSE
Sin"u*ose`, a.

Defn: Sinuous. Loudon.

SINUOSITY
Sin`u*os"i*ty, n.; pl. Sinuosities. Etym: [Cf. F. sinuosite.]

1. Quality or state of being sinuous.

2. A bend, or a series of bends and turns; a winding, or a series of
windings; a wave line; a curve.
A line of coast certainly amounting, with its sinuosities, to more
than 700 miles. Sydney Smith.

SINUOUS
Sin"u*ous, a. Etym: [L. sinuosus, fr. sinus a bent surface, a curve:
cf. F. sinueux. See Sinus.]

Defn: Bending in and out; of a serpentine or undulating form;
winding; crooked.
 -- Sin"u*ous*ly, adv.
Streaking the ground with sinuous trace. Milton.
Gardens bright with sinuous rills. Coleridge.

SINUPALLIATE
Si`nu*pal"li*ate, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a pallial sinus. See under Sinus.

SINUS
Si"nus, n.; pl. L. Sinus, E. Sinuses. Etym: [L., a bent surface, a
curve, the folds or bosom of a garment, etc., a bay. Cf. Sine, n.]

1. An opening; a hollow; a bending.

2. A bay of the sea; a recess in the shore.

3. (Anat. & Zool.)

Defn: A cavity; a depression. Specifically:
(a) A cavity in a bone or other part, either closed or with a narrow
opening.
(b) A dilated vessel or canal.

4. (Med.)

Defn: A narrow, elongated cavity, in which pus is collected; an
elongated abscess with only a small orifice.

5. (Bot.)

Defn: A depression between adjoining lobes.

Note: A sinus may be rounded, as in the leaf of the white oak, or
acute, as in that of the red maple. Pallial sinus. (Zool.) See under
Pallial.
 -- Sinus venosus. Etym: [L., venous dilatation.] (Anat.) (a) The
main part of the cavity of the right auricle of the heart in the
higher vertebrates. (b) In the lower vertebrates, a distinct chamber
of the heart formed by the union of the large systematic veins and
opening into the auricle.

SINUSOID
Si"nus*oid, n. Etym: [Sinus + -oid.] (Geom.)

Defn: The curve whose ordinates are proportional to the sines of the
abscissas, the equation of the curve being y = a sin x. It is also
called the curve of sines.

SINUSOIDAL
Si`nus*oid"al, a. (Geom.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sinusoid; like a sinusoid.

SIOGOON
Sio"goon, n.

Defn: See Shogun.

SIOGOONATE
Sio*goon"ate, n.

Defn: See Shogunate.

SIOUX
Sioux, n. sing. & pl. (Ethnol.)

Defn: See Dakotas.

SIOUX STATE
Sioux State.

Defn: North Dakota; -- a nickname.

SIP
Sip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Sipping.] Etym: [OE.
sippen; akin to OD. sippen, and AS. s to sip, suck up, drink. See
Sup, v. t.]

1. To drink or imbibe in small quantities; especially, to take in
with the lips in small quantities, as a liquid; as, to sip tea.
"Every herb that sips the dew." Milton.

2. To draw into the mouth; to suck up; as, a bee sips nectar from the
flowers.

3. To taste the liquor of; to drink out of. [Poetic]
They skim the floods, and sip the purple flowers. Dryden.

SIP
Sip, v. i.

Defn: To drink a small quantity; to take a fluid with the lips; to
take a sip or sips of something.
[She] raised it to her mouth with sober grace; Then, sipping, offered
to the next in place. Dryden.

SIP
Sip, n.

1. The act of sipping; the taking of a liquid with the lips.

2. A small draught taken with the lips; a slight taste.
One sip of this Will bathe the drooping spirits in delight Beyond the
bliss of dreams. Milton.
A sip is all that the public ever care to take from reservoirs of
abstract philosophy. De Quincey.

SIPAGE
Sip"age, n.

Defn: See Seepage. [Scot. & U.S.]

SIPE
Sipe, v. i.

Defn: See Seep. [Scot. & U.S.]

SIPHILIS
Siph"i*lis, n. (Med.)

Defn: Syphilis.

SIPHOID
Si"phoid, n. Etym: [L. sipho a siphon + -oid: cf. F. vase siphoide.]

Defn: A siphon bottle. See under Siphon, n.

SIPHON
Si"phon, n. Etym: [F. siphon, L. sipho, -onis, fr. Gr.

1. A device, consisting of a pipe or tube bent so as to form two
branches or legs of unequal length, by which a liquid can be
transferred to a lower level, as from one vessel to another, over an
intermediate elevation, by the action of the pressure of the
atmosphere in forcing the liquid up the shorter branch of the pipe
immersed in it, while the continued excess of weight of the liquid in
the longer branch (when once filled) causes a continuous flow. The
flow takes place only when the discharging extremity of the pipe ia
lower than the higher liquid surface, and when no part of the pipe is
higher above the surface than the same liquid will rise by
atmospheric pressure; that is, about 33 feet for water, and 30 inches
for mercury, near the sea level.

2. (Zool.)
(a) One of the tubes or folds of the mantle border of a bivalve or
gastropod mollusk by which water is conducted into the gill cavity.
See Illust. under Mya, and Lamellibranchiata.
(b) The anterior prolongation of the margin of any gastropod shell
for the protection of the soft siphon.
(c) The tubular organ through which water is ejected from the gill
cavity of a cephaloid. It serves as a locomotive organ, by guiding
and confining the jet of water. Called also siphuncle. See Illust.
under Loligo, and Dibranchiata.
(d) The siphuncle of a cephalopod shell.
(e) The sucking proboscis of certain parasitic insects and
crustaceans.
(f) A sproutlike prolongation in front of the mouth of many
gephyreans.
(g) A tubular organ connected both with the esophagus and the
intestine of certain sea urchins and annelids.

3. A siphon bottle. Inverted siphon, a tube bent like a siphon, but
having the branches turned upward; specifically (Hydraulic
Engineering), a pipe for conducting water beneath a depressed place,
as from one hill to another across an intervening valley, following
the depression of the ground.
 -- Siphon barometer. See under Barometer.
 -- Siphon bottle, a bottle for holding aerated water, which is
driven out through a bent tube in the neck by the gas within the
bottle when a valve in the tube is opened; -- called also gazogene,
and siphoid.
 -- Siphon condenser, a condenser for a steam engine, in which the
vacuum is maintained by the downward flow of water through a vertical
pipe of great height.
 -- Siphon cup, a cup with a siphon attached for carrying off any
liquid in it; specifically (Mach.), an oil cup in which oil is
carried over the edge of a tube in a cotton wick, and so reaches the
surface to be lubricated.
 -- Siphon gauge. See under Gauge.
 -- Siphon pump, a jet pump. See under Jet, n.

SIPHON
Si"phon, v. t. (Chem.)

Defn: To convey, or draw off, by means of a siphon, as a liquid from
one vessel to another at a lower level.

SIPHONAGE
Si"phon*age, n.

Defn: The action of a siphon.

SIPHONAL
Si"phon*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a siphon; resembling a siphon. Siphonal
stomach (Zool.), a stomach which is tubular and bent back upon
itself, like a siphon, as in the salmon.

SIPHONARID
Si`pho*na"rid, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of limpet-shaped pulmonate
gastropods of the genus Siphonaria. They cling to rocks between high
and low water marks and have both lunglike organs and gills.
 -- Si`pho*na"rid, a.

SIPHONATA
Si`pho*na"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: A tribe of bivalve mollusks in which the posterior mantle
border is prolonged into two tubes or siphons. Called also
Siphoniata. See Siphon, 2 (a), and Quahaug.

SIPHONATE
Si"phon*ate, a.

1. Having a siphon or siphons.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Belonging to the Siphonata.

SIPHONET
Si"phon*et, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the two dorsal tubular organs on the hinder part of the
abdomen of aphids. They give exit to the honeydew. See Illust. under
Aphis.

SIPHONIA
Si*pho"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Bot.)

Defn: A former name for a euphorbiaceous genus (Hevea) of South
American trees, the principal source of caoutchouc.

SIPHONIATA
Si*pho`ni*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Siphonata.

SIPHONIC
Si*phon"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a siphon.

SIPHONIFER
Si*phon"i*fer, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. sipho, -onis, siphon + ferre to
bear.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any cephalopod having a siphonate shell.

SIPHONIFEROUS
Si"phon*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Siphon + -ferous.] (Zool.)

Defn: Siphon-bearing, as the shell of the nautilus and other
cephalopods.

SIPHONIUM
Si*pho"ni*um, n.; pl. Siphonia. Etym: [NL., from Gr. Siphon.] (Anat.)

Defn: A bony tube which, in some birds, connects the tympanium with
the air chambers of the articular piece of the mandible.

SIPHONOBRANCHIATA
Si`pho*no*bran`chi*a"ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Siphon, and Branchia.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A tribe of gastropods having the mantle border, on one or both
sides, prolonged in the form of a spout through which water enters
the gill cavity. The shell itself is not always siphonostomatous in
this group.

SIPHONOBRANCHIATE
Si`pho*no*bran"chi*ate, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a siphon, or siphons, to convey water to the gills;
belonging or pertaining to the Siphonobranchiata.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Siphonobranchiata.

SIPHONOGLYPHE
Si`pho*nog"ly*phe, n. Etym: [Siphon + Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A gonidium.

SIPHONOPHORA
Si`pho*noph"o*ra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of pelagic Hydrozoa including species which form
complex free-swimming communities composed of numerous zooids of
various kinds, some of which act as floats or as swimming organs,
others as feeding or nutritive zooids, and others as reproductive
zooids. See Illust. under Physallia, and Porpita.

SIPHONOPHORAN
Si`pho*noph"o*ran, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Belonging to the Siphonophora.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Siphonophora.

SIPHONOPHORE
Si*phon"o*phore, n. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the Siphonophora.

SIPHONOPODA
Si`pho*nop"o*da, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Siphon, and -poda.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of Scaphopoda including those in which the foot
terminates in a circular disk.

SIPHONOSTOMATA
Si`pho*no*stom"a*ta, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Siphon, and Stoma.]
(Zool.)
(a) A tribe of parasitic copepod Crustacea including a large number
of species that are parasites of fishes, as the lerneans. They have a
mouth adapted to suck blood.
(b) An artificial division of gastropods including those that have
siphonostomatous shells.

SIPHONOSTOMATOUS
Si`pho*no*stom"a*tous, a. (Zool.)
(a) Having the front edge of the aperture of the shell prolonged in
the shape of a channel for the protection of the siphon; -- said of
certain gastropods.
(b) Pertaining to the Siphonostomata.

SIPHONOSTOME
Si`pho*nos"tome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)
(a) Any parasitic entomostracan of the tribe Siphonostomata.
(b) A siphonostomatous shell.

SIPHORHINAL
Si`pho*rhi"nal, a. Etym: [Siphon + rhinal.] (Zool.)

Defn: Having tubular nostrils, as the petrels.

SIPHORHINIAN
Si`pho*rhin"i*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A siphorhinal bird.

SIPHUNCLE
Si"phun`cle, n. Etym: [L. siphunculus, sipunculus, dim. of sipho. See
Siphon.] (Zool.)

Defn: The tube which runs through the partitions of chambered
cephalopod shells.

SIPHUNCLED
Si"phun`cled, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a siphuncle; siphunculated.

SIPHUNCULAR
Si*phun"cu*lar, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the siphuncle.

SIPHUNCULATED
Si*phun"cu*la`ted, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having a siphuncle. Huxley.

SIPID
Sip"id, a. Etym: [See Insipid, Sapid.]

Defn: Having a taste or flavorl savory; sapid. [Obs.] Cockeram.

SIPPER
Sip"per, n.

Defn: One whi sips.

SIPPET
Sip"pet, n. Etym: [See Sip, Sop.]

Defn: A small sop; a small, thin piece of toasted bread soaked in
milk, broth, or the like; a small piece of toasted or fried bread cut
into some special shape and used for garnishing.
Your sweet sippets in widows' houses. Milton.

SIPPLE
Sip"ple, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of sip.]

Defn: To sip often. [Obs. or Scot.]

SIPPLING
Sip"pling, a.

Defn: Sipping often. [Obs.] "Taken after a sippling sort." Holland.

SIPUNCULACEA
Si*pun`cu*la"ce*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Sipunculus, the typical
genus. See Siphuncle.] (Zool.)

Defn: A suborder of Gephyrea, including those which have the body
unarmed and the intestine opening anteriorly.

SIPUNCULOID
Si*pun"cu*loid, a. Etym: [NL. Sipunculus, the typical genus + -oid.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Sipunculoidea.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Sipunculoidea.

SIPUNCULOIDEA
Si*pun`cu*loi"de*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)
(a) Same as Gephyrea.
(b) In a restricted sense, same as Sipunculacea.

SI QUIS
Si` quis". Etym: [L., if any one (the first words of the notice in
Latin).] (Ch. of Eng.)

Defn: A notification by a candidate for orders of his intention to
inquire whether any impediment may be alleged against him.

SIR
Sir, n. Etym: [OE. sire, F. sire, contr. from the nominative L.
senior an elder, elderly person, compar. of senex,senis, an aged
person; akin to Gr. sana, Goth. sineigs old, sinista eldest, Ir. &
Gael. sean old, W. hen. Cf. Seignior, Senate, Seneschal, Senior,
Senor, Signor, Sire, Sirrah.]

1. A man of social authority and dignity; a lord; a master; a
gentleman; -- in this sense usually spelled sire. [Obs.]
He was crowned lord and sire. Gower.
In the election of a sir so rare. Shak.

2. A title prefixed to the Christian name of a knight or a baronet.
Sir Horace Vere, his brother, was the principal in the active part.
Bacon.

3. An English rendering of the LAtin Dominus, the academical title of
a bachelor of arts; -- formerly colloquially, and sometimes
contemptuously, applied to the clergy. Nares.
Instead of a faithful and painful teacher, they hire a Sir John,
which hath better skill in playing at tables, or in keeping of a
garden, than in God's word. Latimer.

4. A respectful title, used in addressing a man, without being
prefixed to his name; -- used especially in speaking to elders or
superiors; sometimes, also, used in the way of emphatic formality.
"What's that to you, sir" Sheridan.

Note: Anciently, this title, was often used when a person was
addressed as a man holding a certain office, or following a certain
business. "Sir man of law." "Sir parish priest." Chaucer. Sir
reverance. See under Reverence, n.

SIRASKIER
Si*ras"kier, n.

Defn: See Seraskier.

SIRASKIERATE
Si*ras"kier*ate, n.

Defn: See Seraskierate.

SIRBONIAN
Sir*bo"ni*an, a.

Defn: See Serbonian.

SIRCAR
Sir*car", n. Etym: [Hind. & Per. sarkar a superintendant, overseer,
chief; Per. sar the head + kar action, work.]

1. A Hindoo clerk or accountant. [India]

2. A district or province; a circar. [India]

3. The government; the supreme authority of the state. [India]

SIRDAR
Sir*dar", n Etym: [Hind. & Per. sardar a chief, general; sar the
head, top + dar holding, possessing.]

Defn: A native chief in Hindostan; a headman. Malcom.

SIRE
Sire, n. Etym: [F. sire, originally, an older person. See Sir.]

1. A lord, master, or other person in authority. See Sir. [Obs.]
Pain and distress, sickness and ire, And melancholy that angry sire,
Be of her palace senators. Rom. of R.

2. A tittle of respect formerly used in speaking to elders and
superiors, but now only in addressing a sovereign.

3. A father; the head of a family; the husband.
Jankin thet was our sire [i.e., husband]. Chaucer.
And raise his issue, like a loving sire. Shak.

4. A creator; a maker; an author; an originator.
[He] was the sire of an immortal strain. Shelley.

5. The male parent of a beast; -- applied especially to horses; as,
the horse had a good sire.

Note: Sire is often used in composition; as in grandsire,
grandfather; great-grandsire, great-grandfather.

SIRE
Sire, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sired; p. pr. & vb. n. Siring.]

Defn: To beget; to procreate; -- used of beasts, and especially of
stallions.

SIREDON
Si*re"don, n. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: The larval form of any salamander while it still has external
gills; especially, one of those which, like the axolotl (Amblystoma
Mexicanum), sometimes lay eggs while in this larval state, but which
under more favorable conditions lose their gills and become normal
salamanders. See also Axolotl.

SIREN
Si"ren, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. sirene.]

1. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: One of three sea nymphs, -- or, according to some writers, of
two, -- said to frequent an island near the coast of Italy, and to
sing with such sweetness that they lured mariners to destruction.
Next where the sirens dwell you plow the seas; Their song is death,
and makes destruction please. Pope.

2. An enticing, dangerous woman. Shak.

3. Something which is insidious or deceptive.
Consumption is a siren. W. Irving.

4. A mermaid. [Obs.] Shak.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: Any long, slender amphibian of the genus Siren or family
Sirenid?, destitute of hind legs and pelvis, and having permanent
external gills as well as lungs. They inhabit the swamps, lagoons,
and ditches of the Southern United States. The more common species
(Siren lacertina) is dull lead-gray in color, and becames two feet
long.

6. Etym: [F. sirene, properly, a siren in sense 1.] (Acoustics)

Defn: An instrument for producing musical tones and for ascertaining
the number of sound waves or vibrations per second which produce a
note of a given pitch. The sounds are produced by a perforated
rotating disk or disks. A form with two disks operated by steam or
highly compressed air is used sounding an alarm to vessels in fog.
[Written also sirene, and syren.]

SIREN
Si"ren, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a siren; bewitching, like a siren;
fascinating; alluring; as, a siren song.

SIRENE
Si*rene", n.

Defn: See Siren, 6.

SIRENIA
Si*re"ni*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL.] (Zool.)

Defn: An order of large aquatic herbivorous mammals, including the
manatee, dugong, rytina, and several fossil genera.

Note: The hind limbs are either rudimentary or wanting, and the front
ones are changed to paddles. They have horny plates on the front part
of the jaws, and usually flat-crowned molar teeth. The stomach is
complex and the intestine long, as in other herbivorous mammals. See
Cetacea (b).

SIRENIAN
Si*re"ni*an, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of Sirenia.

SIRENICAL
Si*ren"ic*al, a.

Defn: Like, or appropriate to, a siren; fascinating; deceptive.
Here's couple of sirenical rascals shall enchant ye. Marton.

SIRENIZE
Si"ren*ize, v. i.

Defn: To use the enticements of a siren; to act as a siren; to
fascinate.

SIRIASIS
Si*ri"a*sis, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Med.)
(a) A sunstroke.
(b) The act of exposing to a sun bath. [Obs.] Cf. Insolation.

SIRIUS
Sir"i*us, n. Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Astron.)

Defn: The Dog Star. See Dog Star.

SIRKEER
Sir"keer, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of Asiatic cuckoos of the genus
Taccocua, as the Bengal sirkeer (T. sirkee).

SIRLOIN
Sir"loin`, n. Etym: [A corruption of surloin. Not so called because
this cut of beaf was once jocosely knighted (dubbed Sir Loin) by an
English king, as according to a popular story.]

Defn: A loin of beef, or a part of a loin. [Written also surloin.]

SIRNAME
Sir"name`, n.

Defn: See Surname.

SIROC
Si"roc, n.

Defn: See Sirocco. [Poetic] Emerson.

SIROCCO
Si*roc"co, n.; pl. Siroccos(). Etym: [It. sirocco, scirocco, Ar.
shorug, fr. sharq the rising of the sun, the east, fr, sharaca to
rise as the sun. Cf. Saracen.]

Defn: An oppressive, relaxing wind from the Libyan deserts, chiefly
experienced in Italy, Malta, and Sicily.

SIRRAH
Sir"rah, n. Etym: [Probably from Icel. sira, fr. F. sire. See Sir.]

Defn: A term of address implying inferiority and used in anger,
contempt, reproach, or disrespectful familiarity, addressed to a man
or boy, but sometimes to a woman. In sililoquies often preceded by
ah. Not used in the plural. "Ah, sirrah mistress." Beau & Fl.
Go, sirrah, to my cell. Shak.

SIRT
Sirt, n. Etym: [See Syrt.]

Defn: A quicksand. [Obs.]

SIRUP; SYRUP
Sir"up Syr"up, n. Etym: [F. sirop (cf. It. siroppo, Sp. jarabe,
jarope, LL. siruppus, syrupus), fr. Ar. sharab a drink, wine, coffee,
sirup. Cf. Sherbet.]

1. A thick and viscid liquid made from the juice of fruits, herbs,
etc., boiled with sugar.

2. A thick and viscid saccharine solution of superior quality (as
sugarhouse sirup or molasses, maple sirup); specifically, in pharmacy
and often in cookery, a saturated solution of sugar and water (simple
sirup), or such a solution flavored or medicated.
Lucent sirups tinct with cinnamon. Keats.
Mixing sirup. See the Note under Dextrose.

SIRUPED; SYRUPED
Sir"uped, Syr"uped, a.

Defn: Moistened, covered, or sweetened with sirup, or sweet juice.

SIRUPY; SYRUPY
Sir"up*y, Syr"up*y, a.

Defn: Like sirup, or partaking of its qualities. Mortimer.

SIRVENTE
Sir`vente", n. Etym: [F. sirvente, fr. Pr. sirventes, sirventesc,
originally, the poem of, or concerning, a sirvent, fr. sirvent,
properly, serving, n., one who serves (e. g., as a soldier), fr.
servir to serve, L. servire.]

Defn: A peculiar species of poetry, for the most part devoted to
moral and religious topics, and commonly satirical, -- often used by
the troubadours of the Middle Ages.

SIS
Sis, n.

Defn: A colloquial abbreviation of Sister.

SIS
Sis, n.

Defn: Six. See Sise. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SISAL GRASS; SISAL HEMP
Si*sal" grass`, Si*sal" hemp`,

Defn: The prepared fiber of the Agave Americana, or American aloe,
used for cordage; -- so called from Sisal, a port in Yucatan. See
Sisal hemp, under Hemp.

SISCOWET
Sis"co*wet, n. Etym: [OF American Indian origin.] (Zool.)

Defn: A large, fat variety of the namaycusa found in Lake Superior; -
- called also siskawet, siskiwit.

SISE
Sise, n. Etym: [From Assize.]

Defn: An assize. [Obs.]

SISE
Sise, n. Etym: [See Sice.]

Defn: Six; the highest number on a die; the cast of six in throwing
dice.
In the new casting of a die, when ace is on the top, sise must needs
be at the bottom. Fuller.

SISEL
Sis"el, n. Etym: [Cf. G. ziesel. Cf. Zizel.] (Zool.)

Defn: The suslik.

SISER
Si"ser, n.

Defn: Cider. See Sicer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SISERARA; SISERARY
Sis"e*ra*ra, Sis"e*ra*ry, n.

Defn: A hard blow. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SISKIN
Sis"kin, n. Etym: [Dan. sisgen; cf. Sw. siska, G. zeisig, D. sijsje;
of Slav. origin; cf. Pol. czy.] (Zool.)
(a) A small green and yellow European finch (Spinus spinus, or
Carduelis spinus); -- called also aberdevine.
(b) The American pinefinch (S. pinus); -- called also pine siskin.
See Pinefinch.

Note: The name is applied also to several other related species found
in Asia and South America. Siskin green, a delicate shade of
yellowish green, as in the mineral torbernite.

SISKIWIT
Sis"ki*wit, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The siscowet.

SISMOGRAPH
Sis"mo*graph, n.

Defn: See Seismograph.

SISMOMETER
Sis*mom"e*ter, n.

Defn: See Seismometer.

SISS
Siss, v. i. Etym: [Of imitative origin; cf. D. sissen, G. zischen.]

Defn: To make a hissing sound; as, a flatiron hot enough to siss when
touched with a wet finger. [Colloq. U. S.; Local, Eng.]

SISS
Siss, n.

Defn: A hissing noise. [Colloq. U. S.]

SISSOO
Sis*soo", n. Etym: [Hind. sis.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous tree (Dalbergia Sissoo) of the northern parts of
India; also, the dark brown compact and durable timber obtained from
it. It is used in shipbuilding and for gun carriages, railway ties,
etc.

SIST
Sist, v. t. Etym: [L. sistere to bring to a stand, to stop.]

1. (Scots Law)

Defn: To stay, as judicial proceedings; to delay or suspend; to stop.

2. To cause to take a place, as at the bar of a court; hence, to
cite; to summon; to bring into court. [Scot.]
Some, however, have preposterously sisted nature as the first or
generative principle. Sir W. Hamilton.

SIST
Sist, n. (Scots Law)

Defn: A stay or suspension of proceedings; an order for a stay of
proceedings. Burril.

SISTER
Sis"ter, n. Etym: [OE. sister, fr. Icel. systir; also suster, from
AS. sweostor, sweoster, swuster, akin to OFries. sweester, suster,
LG. suster, suster, D. zuster, OS. & OHG. swestar, G. schwester,
Icel. systir, Sw. syster, Dan. soster, Goth. swistar, Lith. ses,
Russ. sestra, Pol. siostra, L. soror, Skr. svasr. sq. root298. Cf.
Cousin.]

1. A female who has the same parents with another person, or who has
one of them only. In the latter case, she is more definitely called a
half sister. The correlative of brother.
I am the sister of one Claudio. Shak.

2. A woman who is closely allied to, or assocciated with, another
person, as in the sdame faith, society, order, or community. James
ii. 15.

3. One of the same kind, or of the same condition; -- generally used
adjectively; as, sister fruits. Pope. Sister Block (Naut.), a tackle
block having two sheaves, one above the other.
 -- Sister hooks, a pair of hooks fitted together, the shank of one
forming a mousing for the other; -- called also match hook.
 -- Sister of charity, Sister of mercy. (R. C. Ch.) See under
Charity, and Mercy.

SISTER
Sis"ter, v. t.

Defn: To be sister to; to resemble closely. [Obs.] Shak.

SISTERHOOD
Sis"ter*hood, n. Etym: [Sister + hood.]

1. The state or relation of being a sister; the office or duty of a
sister.
She . . . abhorr'd Her proper blood, and left to do the part Of
sisterhood, to do that of a wife. Daniel.

2. A society of sisters; a society of women united in one faith or
order; sisters, collectively. "A sisterhood of holy nuns." Shak.
The fair young flowers . . . a beauteous sisterhood. Bryant.

SISTERING
Sis"ter*ing, a.

Defn: Contiguous. [Obs.] Shak.

SISTER-IN-LAW
Sis"ter-in-law`, n; pl. Sisters-in-law(

Defn: The sister of one's husband or wife; also, the wife of one's
brother; sometimes, the wife of one's husband's or wife's brother.

SISTERLY
Sis"ter*ly, a.

Defn: Like a sister; becoming a sister, affectionate; as, sisterly
kindness; sisterly remorse. Shak.

SISTINE
Sis"tine, a.Etym: [It. sistino.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to Pope Sixtus. Sistine chapel, a chapel in
the Vatican at Rome, built by Pope Sixtus IV., and decorated with
frescoes by Michael Angelo and others.

SISTREN
Sis"tren, n. pl.

Defn: Sisters. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SISTRUM
Sis"trum, Etym: [L., fr. Gr. (Mus.)

Defn: An instrument consisting of a thin metal frame, through which
passed a number of metal rods, and furnished with a handle by which
it was shaken and made to rattle. It was peculiarly Egyptian, and
used especially in the worship of Isis. It is still used in Nubia.

SISYPHEAN
Sis`y*phe"an, a.

Defn: Relating to Sisyphus; incessantly recurring; as, Sisyphean
labors.

SISYPHUS
Sis"y*phus, n. Etym: [L. Sisyphus, Sisyphus, fr. Gr. (Class. Myth.)

Defn: A king of Corinth, son of ?olus, famed for his cunning. He was
killed by Theseus, and in the lower world was condemned by Pluto to
roll to the top of a hill a huge stone, which constantly rolled back
again, making his task incessant.

SIT
Sit,

Defn: obs. 3d pers. sing. pres. of Sit, for sitteth.

SIT
Sit, v. i. [imp. Sat (Sate, archaic); p. p. Sat (Sitten, obs.); p.
pr. & vb. n. Sitting.] Etym: [OE. sitten, AS. sittan; akin to OS.
sittian, OFries. sitta, D. zitten, G. sitzen, OHG. sizzen, Icel.
sitja, SW. sitta, Dan. sidde, Goth. sitan, Russ. sidiete, L. sedere,
Gr. sad. sq. root154. Cf. Assess,Assize, Cathedral, Chair, Dissident,
Excise, Insidious, Possess, Reside, Sanhedrim, Seance, Seat, n.,
Sedate, 4th Sell, Siege, Session, Set, v. t., Sizar, Size, Subsidy.]

1. To rest upon the haunches, or the lower extremity of the trunk of
the body; -- said of human beings, and sometimes of other animals;
as, to sit on a sofa, on a chair, or on the ground.
And he came and took the book put of the right hand of him that sate
upon the seat. Bible (1551) (Rev. v. 7.)
I pray you, jest, sir, as you sit at dinner. Shak.

2. To perch; to rest with the feet drawn up, as birds do on a branch,
pole, etc.

3. To remain in a state of repose; to rest; to abide; to rest in any
position or condition.
And Moses said to . . . the children of Reuben, Shall your brothren
go to war, and shall ye sit here Num. xxxii. 6.
Like a demigod here sit I in the sky. Shak.

4. To lie, rest, or bear; to press or weigh; -- with on; as, a weight
or burden sits lightly upon him.
The calamity sits heavy on us. Jer. Taylor.

5. To be adjusted; to fit; as, a coat sts well or ill.
This new and gorgeous garment, majesty, Sits not so easy on me as you
think. Shak.

6. To suit one well or ill, as an act; to become; to befit; -- used
impersonally. [Obs.] Chaucer.

7. To cover and warm eggs for hatching, as a fowl; to brood; to
incubate.
As the partridge sitteth on eggs, and hatcheth them not. Jer. xvii.
11.

8. To have position, as at the point blown from; to hold a relative
position; to have direction.
Like a good miller that knows how to grind, which way soever the wind
sits. Selden.
Sits the wind in that quarter Sir W. Scott.

9. To occupy a place or seat as a member of an official body; as, to
sit in Congress.

10. To hold a session; to be in session for official business; --
said of legislative assemblies, courts, etc.; as, the court sits in
January; the aldermen sit to-night.

11. To take a position for the purpose of having some artistic
representation of one's self made, as a picture or a bust; as, to sit
to a painter. To sit at, to rest under; to be subject to. [Obs.] "A
farmer can not husband his ground so well if he sit at a great rent".
Bacon.
 -- To sit at meat or at table, to be at table for eating.
 -- To sit down. (a) To place one's self on a chair or other seat;
as, to sit down when tired. (b) To begin a siege; as, the enemy sat
down before the town. (c) To settle; to fix a permanent abode.
Spenser. (d) To rest; to cease as satisfied. "Here we can not sit
down, but still proceed in our search." Rogers.
 -- To sit for a fellowship, to offer one's self for examination with
a view to obtaining a fellowship. [Eng. Univ.] -- To sit out. (a) To
be without engagement or employment. [Obs.] Bp. Sanderson. (b) To
outstay.
 -- To sit under, to be under the instruction or ministrations of;
as, to sit under a preacher; to sit under good preaching.
 -- To sit up, to rise from, or refrain from, a recumbent posture or
from sleep; to sit with the body upright; as, to sit up late at
night; also, to watch; as, to sit up with a sick person. "He that was
dead sat up, and began to speak." Luke vii. 15.

SIT
Sit, v. t.

1. To sit upon; to keep one's seat upon; as, he sits a horse well.
Hardly the muse can sit the headstrong horse. Prior.

2. To cause to be seated or in a sitting posture; to furnish a seat
to; -- used reflexively.
They sat them down to weep. Milton.
Sit you down, father; rest you. Shak.

3. To suit (well or ill); to become. [Obs. or R.]

SITE
Site, n. Etym: [L. situs, fr. sinere, situm, to let, p. p. situs
placed, lying, situate: cf. F. site. Cf. Position.]

1. The place where anything is fixed; situation; local position; as,
the site of a city or of a house. Chaucer.

2. A place fitted or chosen for any certain permanent use or
occupation; as, a site for a church.

3. The posture or position of a thing. [R.]
The semblance of a lover fixed In melancholy site. Thomson.

SITED
Sit"ed, a.

Defn: Having a site; situated. [Obs.]
[The garden] sited was in fruitful soil. Chaucer.

SITFAST
Sit"fast`, a. Etym: [Sit + fast.]

Defn: Fixed; stationary; immovable. [R.]
'T is good, when you have crossed the sea and back, To find the
sitfast acres where you left them. Emerson.

SITFAST
Sit"fast`, n. (Far.)

Defn: A callosity with inflamed edges, on the back of a horse, under
the saddle.

SITH
Sith, prep., adv., & conj. Etym: [See Since.]

Defn: Since; afterwards; seeing that. [Obs.]
We need not fear them, sith Christ is with us. Latimer.
Sith thou art rightful judge. Chaucer.

SITH; SITHE
Sith, Sithe, n. Etym: [AS.

Defn: Time. [Obs.] Chaucer.
And humbly thanked him a thousand sithes. Spenser.

SITHE
Sithe, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Sigh.]

Defn: To sigh.

Note: [A spelling of a corrupt and provincial pronunciation.]

SITHE
Sithe, n.

Defn: A scythe. [Obs.] Milton.

SITHE
Sithe, v. t.

Defn: To cut with a scythe; to scythe. [Obs.]

SITHED
Sithed, a.

Defn: Scythed. [Obs.] T. Warton.

SITHEMAN
Sithe"man, n.

Defn: A mower. [Obs.] Marston.

SITHEN
Sith"en, adv. & conj. Etym: [See Since.]

Defn: Since; afterwards. See 1st Sith. [Obs.]
Fortune was first friend and sithen foe. Chaucer.

SITHENCE; SITHENS
Sith"ence, Sith"ens, adv. & conj.

Defn: Since. See Sith, and Sithen. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

SITHTHEN
Sith"then, adv. & conj.

Defn: See Sithen. [Obs.]
Siththen that the world began. Chaucer.

SITOLOGY
Si*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

Defn: A treatise on the regulation of the diet; dietetics. [Written
also sitiology.]

SITOPHOBIA
Si`to*pho"bi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A version to food; refusal to take nourishment. [Written also
sitiophobia.]

SITTEN
Sit"ten, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Sit, for sat.

SITTER
Sit"ter, n.

1. One who sits; esp., one who sits for a portrait or a bust.

2. A bird that sits or incubates.

SITTINE
Sit"tine, a. Etym: [NL. sitta the nuthatch, from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the family Sittid?, or nuthatches.

SITTING
Sit"ting, a.

Defn: Being in the state, or the position, of one who, or that which,
sits.

SITTING
Sit"ting, n.

1. The state or act of one who sits; the posture of one who occupies
a seat.

2. A seat, or the space occupied by or allotted for a person, in a
church, theater, etc.; as, the hall has 800 sittings.

3. The act or time of sitting, as to a portrait painter,
photographer, etc.

4. The actual presence or meeting of any body of men in their seats,
clothed with authority to transact business; a session; as, a sitting
of the judges of the King's Bench, or of a commission.
The sitting closed in great agitation. Macaulay.

5. The time during which one sits while doing something, as reading a
book, playing a game, etc.
For the understanding of any one of St. Paul's Epistles I read it all
through at one sitting. Locke.

6. A brooding over eggs for hatching, as by fowls.
The male bird . . . amuses her [the female] with his songs during the
whole time of her sitting. Addison.
Sitting room, an apartment where the members of a family usually sit,
as distinguished from a drawing-room, parlor, chamber, or kitchen.

SITUATE; SITUATED
Sit"u*ate, Sit"u*a`ted, a. Etym: [LL. situatus, from situare to
place, fr. L. situs situation, site. See Site.]

1. Having a site, situation, or location; being in a relative
position; permanently fixed; placed; located; as, a town situated, or
situate, on a hill or on the seashore.

2. Placed; residing.
Pleasure situate in hill and dale. Milton.

Note: Situate is now less used than situated, but both are well
authorized.

SITUATE
Sit"u*ate, v. t.

Defn: To place. [R.] Landor.

SITUATION
Sit`u*a"tion, n. Etym: [LL. situatio: cf. F. situation.]

1. Manner in which an object is placed; location, esp. as related to
something else; position; locality site; as, a house in a pleasant
situation.

2. Position, as regards the conditions and circumstances of the case.
A situation of the greatest ease and tranquillity. Rogers.

3. Relative position; circumstances; temporary state or relation at a
moment of action which excites interest, as of persons in a dramatic
scene.
There's situation for you! there's an heroic group! Sheridan.

4. Permanent position or employment; place; office; as, a situation
in a store; a situation under government.

Syn.
 -- State; position; seat; site; station; post; place; office;
condition; case; plight. See State.

SITUS
Si"tus, n. Etym: [L., situation.] (Bot.)

Defn: The method in which the parts of a plant are arranged; also,
the position of the parts. Henslow.

SITZ BATH
Sitz" bath`. Etym: [G. sitzbad.]

Defn: A tub in which one bathes in a sitting posture; also, a bath so
taken; a hip bath.

SIVA
Si"va, n. Etym: [Skr. Civa, properly, kind, gracious.] (Hindoo Myth.)

Defn: One of the triad of Hindoo gods. He is the avenger or
destroyer, and in modern worship symbolizes the reproductive power of
nature.

SIVAN
Si"van, n. Etym: [Heb. sivan.]

Defn: The third month of the Jewish ecclesiastical year; -- supposed
to correspond nearly with our month of June.

SIVATHERIUM
Siv`a*the"ri*um, n. Etym: [NL., from E. Siva + Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: A genus of very large extinct ruminants found in the Tertiary
formation of India. The snout was prolonged in the form of a
proboscis. The male had four horns, the posterior pair being large
and branched. It was allied to the antelopes, but very much larger
than any exsisting species.

SIVER
Siv"er, v. i.

Defn: To simmer. [Obs.] Holland.

SIVVENS
Siv"vens (, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Sibbens.

SIWIN
Si"win, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Sewen.

SIX
Six, a. Etym: [AS. six, seox, siex; akin to OFries. sex, D. zes, OS.
& OHG. sehs, G. sechs, Icel., Sw., & Dan. sex, Goth. saihs, Lith.
szeszi, Russ. sheste, Gael. & Ir. se, W. chwech, L. sex, Gr. shesh,
Skr. shash. sq. root304. Cf. Hexagon, Hexameter, Samite, Senary,
Sextant, Sice.]

Defn: One more than five; twice three; as, six yards. Six Nations
(Ethnol.), a confederation of North American Indians formed by the
union of the Tuscaroras and the Five Nations.
 -- Six points circle. (Geom.) See Nine points circle, under Nine.

SIX
Six, n.

1. The number greater by a unit than five; the sum of three and
three; six units or objects.

2. A symbol representing six units, as 6, vi., or VI. To be at six
and seven or at sixes and sevens, to be in disorder. Bacon. Shak.
Swift.

SIXFOLD
Six"fold`, a. Etym: [AS. sixfealand.]

Defn: Six times repeated; six times as much or as many.

SIX-FOOTER
Six"-foot`er, n.

Defn: One who is six feet tall. [Colloq. U.S.]

SIXPENCE
Six"pence, n.; pl. Sixpences (.

Defn: An English silver coin of the value of six pennies; half a
shilling, or about twelve cents.

SIXPENNY
Six"pen`ny, a.

Defn: Of the value of, or costing, sixpence; as, a sixpenny loaf.

SIXSCORE
Six"score`, a. & n. Etym: [Six + score, n.]

Defn: Six times twenty; one hundred and twenty.

SIX-SHOOTER
Six"-shoot`er, n.

Defn: A pistol or other firearm which can be fired six times without
reloading especially, a six-chambered revolver. [Colloq. U.S.]

SIXTEEN
Six"teen`, a. Etym: [AS. sixt, sixt. See Six, and Ten, and cf.
Sixty.]

Defn: Six and ten; consisting of six and ten; fifteen and one more.

SIXTEEN
Six"teen`, n.

1. The number greater by a unit than fifteen; the sum of ten and six;
sixteen units or objects.

2. A symbol representing sixteen units, as 16, or xvi.

SIXTEENMO
Six*teen"mo, n.; pl. Sixteenmos (.

Defn: See Sextodecimo.

SIXTEENTH
Six"teenth`, a. Etym: [From Sixteen: cf. AS. sixteo.]

1. Sixth after the tenth; next in order after the fifteenth.

2. Constituting or being one of sixteen equal parts into which
anything is divided. Sixteenth note (Mus.), the sixteenth part of a
whole note; a semiquaver.

SIXTEENTH
Six"teenth`, n.

1. The quotient of a unit divided by sixteen; one of sixteen equal
parts of one whole.

2. The next in order after the fifteenth; the sixth after the tenth.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: An interval comprising two octaves and a second. Moore (Encyc.
of Music.)

SIXTH
Sixth, a. Etym: [From Six: cf. AS. sixta, siexta.]

1. First after the fifth; next in order after the fifth.

2. Constituting or being one of six equal parts into which anything
is divided.

SIXTH
Sixth, n.

1. The quotient of a unit divided by six; one of six equal parts
which form a whole.

2. The next in order after the fifth.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: The interval embracing six diatonic degrees of the scale.

SIXTHLY
Sixth"ly, adv.

Defn: In the sixth place. Bacon.

SIXTIETH
Six"ti*eth, a. Etym: [As. sixtiogoedha, sixtigoedha.]

1. Next in order after the fifty-ninth.

2. Constituting or being one one of sixty equal parts into which
anything is divided.

SIXTIETH
Six"ti*eth, n.

1. The quotient of a unit divided by sixty; one of sixty equal parts
forming a whole.

2. The next in order after the fifty-ninth; the tenth after the
fiftieth.

SIXTY
Six"ty, a. Etym: [AS. siextig; akin to G. sechzig, Goth. saihs
tigjus. See Six, Ten, and cf. Sixteen.]

Defn: Six times ten; fifty-nine and one more; threescore.

SIXTY
Six"ty, n.; pl. Sixties (.

1. The sum of six times ten; sixty units or objects.

2. A symbol representing sixty units, as 60, lx., or LX.

SIXTY-FOURTH
Six`ty-fourth", a.

Defn: Constituting or being one of sixty-four equal parts into which
a thing is divided. Sixty-fourth note (Mus.), the sixty-fourth part
of a whole note; a hemi-demi-semiquaver.

SIZABLE
Siz"a*ble, a.

1. Of considerable size or bulk. "A sizable volume." Bp. Hurd.

2. Being of reasonable or suitable size; as, sizable timber; sizable
bulk. Arbuthnot.

SIZAR
Si"zar, n.

Defn: One of a body of students in the universities of Cambridge
(Eng.) and Dublin, who, having passed a certain examination, are
exempted from paying college fees and charges. A sizar corresponded
to a servitor at Oxford.
The sizar paid nothing for food and tuition, and very little for
lodging. Macaulay.

Note: They formerly waited on the table at meals; but this is done
away with. They were probably so called from being thus employed in
distributing the size, or provisions. See 4th Size, 2.

SIZARSHIP
Si"zar*ship, n.

Defn: The position or standing of a sizar.

SIZE
Size, n. Etym: [See Sice, and Sise.]

Defn: Six.

SIZE
Size, n. Etym: [OIt. sisa glue used by painters, shortened fr.
assisa, fr. assidere, p. p. assiso, to make to sit, to seat, to
place, L. assidere to sit down; ad + sidere to sit down, akin to
sedere to sit. See Sit, v. i., and cf. Assize, Size bulk.]

1. A thin, weak glue used in various trades, as in painting,
bookbinding, paper making, etc.

2. Any viscous substance, as gilder's varnish.

SIZE
Size, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sized; p. pr. & vb. n. Sizing.]

Defn: To cover with size; to prepare with size.

SIZE
Size, n. Etym: [Abbrev. from assize. See Assize, and cf. Size glue.]

1. A settled quantity or allowance. See Assize. [Obs.] "To scant my
sizes." Shak.

2. (Univ. of Cambridge, Eng.)

Defn: An allowance of food and drink from the buttery, aside from the
regular dinner at commons; -- corresponding to battel at Oxford.

3. Extent of superficies or volume; bulk; bigness; magnitude; as, the
size of a tree or of a mast; the size of a ship or of a rock.

4. Figurative bulk; condition as to rank, ability, character, etc.;
as, the office demands a man of larger size.
Men of a less size and quality. L'Estrange.
The middling or lower size of people. Swift.

5. A conventional relative measure of dimension, as for shoes,
gloves, and other articles made up for sale.

6. An instrument consisting of a number of perforated gauges fastened
together at one end by a rivet, -- used for ascertaining the size of
pearls. Knight. Size roll, a small piese of parchment added to a
roll.
 -- Size stick, a measuring stick used by shoemakers for ascertaining
the size of the foot.

Syn.
 -- Dimension; bigness; largeness; greatness; magnitude.

SIZE
Size, v. t.

1. To fix the standard of. "To size weights and measures." [R.]
Bacon.

2. To adjust or arrange according to size or bulk. Specifically:
(a) (Mil.) To take the height of men, in order to place them in the
ranks according to their stature.
(b) (Mining) To sift, as pieces of ore or metal, in order to separate
the finer from the coarser parts.

3. To swell; to increase the bulk of. Beau. & Fl.

4. (Mech.)

Defn: To bring or adjust anything exactly to a required dimension, as
by cutting. To size up, to estimate or ascertain the character and
ability of. See 4th Size, 4. [Slang, U.S.]
We had to size up our fellow legislators. The Century.

SIZE
Size, v. i.

1. To take greater size; to increase in size.
Our desires give them fashion, and so, As they wax lesser, fall, as
they size, grow. Donne.

2. (Univ. of Cambridge, Eng.)

Defn: To order food or drink from the buttery; hence, to enter a
score, as upon the buttery book.

SIZED
Sized, a.

1. Adjusted according to size.

2. Having a particular size or magnitude; -- chiefly used in
compounds; as, large-sized; common-sized.

SIZEL
Si"zel, n.

Defn: Same as Scissel, 2.

SIZER
Siz"er, n.

1. See Sizar.

2. (Mech.)
(a) An instrument or contrivance to size articles, or to determine
their size by a standard, or to separate and distribute them
according to size.
(b) An instrument or tool for bringing anything to an exact size.

SIZINESS
Siz"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sizy; viscousness.

SIZING
Siz"ing, n.

1. Act of covering or treating with size.

2. A weak glue used in various trades; size.

SIZING
Siz"ing, n.

1. The act of sorting with respect to size.

2. The act of bringing anything to a certain size.

3. (Univ. of Cambridge, Eng.)

Defn: Food and drink ordered from the buttery by a student.

SIZY
Siz"y, a. Etym: [From 2d Size.]

Defn: Sizelike; viscous; glutinous; as, sizy blood. Arbuthnot.

SIZZLE
Siz"zle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sizzled; p. pr. & vb. n. Sizzling.]
Etym: [See Siss.]

Defn: To make a hissing sound; to fry, or to dry and shrivel up, with
a hissing sound. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U. S.] Forby.

SIZZLE
Siz"zle, n.

Defn: A hissing sound, as of something frying over a fire. [Prov.
Eng. & Colloq. U. S.]

SIZZLING
Siz"zling, a. & n.

Defn: from Sizzle.

SKADDLE
Skad"dle, n. Etym: [Dim. of scath.]

Defn: Hurt; damage. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray.

SKADDLE
Skad"dle, a.

Defn: Hurtful. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Ray.

SKADDON
Skad"don, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The larva of a bee. [Prov. Eng.]

SKAG
Skag, n. (Naut.)

Defn: An additional piece fastened to the keel of a boat to prevent
lateral motion. See Skeg.

SKAIN
Skain, n.

Defn: See Skein. [Obs.]

SKAIN
Skain, n.

Defn: See Skean. Drayton.

SKAINSMATE
Skains"mate`, n. Etym: [Perhaps originally, a companion in winding
thread (see Skein), or a companion in arms, from skain a sword (see
Skean).]

Defn: A messmate; a companion. [Obs.]
Scurvy knave! I am none of his firt-gills; I am none of his
skainsmates. Shak.

SKAITH
Skaith, n.

Defn: See Scatch. [Scot.]

SKALD
Skald, n.

Defn: See 5th Scald.

SKALDIC
Skald"ic, a.

Defn: See Scaldic. Max Muller.

SKALL
Skall, v. t.

Defn: To scale; to mount. [Obs.]

SKAR; SKARE
Skar, Skare, a. Etym: [From the root of scare.]

Defn: Wild; timid; shy. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SKART
Skart, n. Etym: [Cf. Scarf a cormorant.] (Zool.)

Defn: The shag. [Prov. Eng.]

SKAT
Skat (skat), n. [G., fr. It. scartare to discard.]

1. A three-handed card game played with 32 cards, of which  two
constitute the skat (sense 2), or widow. The players bid for the
privilege of attempting any of several games or tasks, in most of
which the player undertaking the game must take tricks counting in
aggregate at least 61 (the counting cards being ace 11, ten 10, king
4, queen 3, jack 2). The four jacks are the best trumps, ranking
club, spade, heart, diamond, and ten outranks king or queen (but when
the player undertakes to lose all the tricks, the cards rank as in
whist). The value of hands depends upon the game played, trump suit,
points taken, and number of matadores.

2.  (Skat) A widow of two cards.

SKATE
Skate, n. Etym: [D. schaats. Cf. Scatches.]

Defn: A metallic runner with a frame shaped to fit the sole of a
shoe, -- made to be fastened under the foot, and used for moving
rapidly on ice.
Batavia rushes forth; and as they sweep, On sounding skates, a
thousand different ways, In circling poise, swift as the winds,
along, The then gay land is maddended all to joy. Thomson.
Roller skate. See under Roller.

SKATE
Skate, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Skated; p. pr. & vb. n. Skating.]

Defn: To move on skates.

SKATE
Skate, n. Etym: [Icel. skata; cf. Prov. G. schatten, meer-schatten,
L. squatus, squatina, and E. shad.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of large, flat elasmobranch fishes
of the genus Raia, having a long, slender tail, terminated by a small
caudal fin. The pectoral fins, which are large and broad and united
to the sides of the body and head, give a somewhat rhombic form to
these fishes. The skin is more or less spinose.

Note: Some of the species are used for food, as the European blue or
gray skate (Raia batis), which sometimes weighs nearly 200 pounds.
The American smooth, or barn-door, skate (R. l?vis) is also a large
species, often becoming three or four feet across. The common spiny
skate (R. erinacea) is much smaller. Skate's egg. See Sea purse.
 -- Skate sucker, any marine leech of the genus Pontobdella,
parasitic on skates.

SKATER
Skat"er, n.

1. One who skates.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of hemipterous insects belonging to
Gerris, Pyrrhocoris, Prostemma, and allied genera. They have long
legs, and run rapidly over the surface of the water, as if skating.

SKATOL
Ska"tol, n. Etym: [Gr. -ol.] (Physiol. Chem.)

Defn: A constituent of human f?ces formed in the small intestines as
a product of the putrefaction of albuminous matter. It is also found
in reduced indigo. Chemically it is methyl indol, C9H9N.

SKAYLES
Skayles, n.

Defn: [sq. root159.] Skittles. [Obs.]

SKEAN
Skean, n. Etym: [Ir sgian; akin to Gael. sgian, W. ysgien a large
knife, a scimiter.]

Defn: A knife or short dagger, esp. that in use among the Highlanders
of Scotland. [Variously spelt.] "His skean, or pistol." Spenser.

SKEDADDLE
Ske*dad"dle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Skedaddled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Skedaddling.] Etym: [Of uncertain etymology.]

Defn: To betake one's self to flight, as if in a panic; to flee; to
run away. [Slang, U. S.]

SKEE
Skee, n. Etym: [Dan. ski; Icel. ski a billet of wood. See Skid.]

Defn: A long strip of wood, curved upwards in front, used on the foot
for sliding.

SKEED
Skeed, n.

Defn: See Skid.

SKEEL
Skeel, n. Etym: [Icel. skj a pail, bucket.]

Defn: A shallow wooden vessel for holding milk or cream. [Prov. Eng.
& Scot.] Grose.

SKEELDUCK; SKEELGOOSE
Skeel"duck`, Skeel"goose`, n. Etym: [See Sheldrake.] (Zool.)

Defn: The common European sheldrake. [Prov. Eng.]

SKEET
Skeet, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Naut.)

Defn: A scoop with a long handle, used to wash the sides of a vessel,
and formerly to wet the sails or deck.

SKEG
Skeg, n. Etym: [Prov. E., also a stump of a branch, a wooden peg; cf.
Icel. sk a wood, Sw. skog. Cf. Shaw.]

1. A sort of wild plum. [Obs.] Holland.

2. pl.

Defn: A kind of oats. Farm. Encyc.

3. (Naut.)

Defn: The after part of the keel of a vessel, to which the rudder is
attached.

SKEGGER
Skeg"ger, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The parr. Walton.

SKEIN
Skein, n. Etym: [OE. skeyne, OF. escaigne, F. ecagne, probably of
Celtic origin; cf. Ir. sgainne, Gael. sgeinnidh thread, small twine;
or perhaps the English word is immediately from Celtic.]

1. A quantity of yarn, thread, or the like, put up together, after it
is taken from the reel, -- usually tied in a sort of knot.

Note: A skein of cotton yarn is formed by eighty turns of the thread
round a fifty-four inch reel.

2. (Wagon Making)

Defn: A metallic strengthening band or thimble on the wooden arm of
an axle. Knight.

SKEIN
Skein, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A flight of wild fowl (wild geese or the like). [Prov. Eng.]

SKEINE
Skeine, n.

Defn: See Skean.

SKELDER
Skel"der, v. t. & i. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: To deceive; to cheat; to trick. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SKELDER
Skel"der, n.

Defn: A vagrant; a cheat. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SKELDRAKE; SKIELDRAKE
Skel"drake`, or Skiel"drake`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The common European sheldrake.
(b) The oyster catcher.

SKELET
Skel"et, n.

Defn: A skeleton. See Scelet.

SKELETAL
Skel"e*tal, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the skeleton.

SKELETOGENOUS
Skel`e*tog"e*nous, a. Etym: [Skeleton + -genous.]

Defn: Forming or producing parts of the skeleton.

SKELETOLOGY
Skel`e*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Skeleton + -logy.]

Defn: That part of anatomy which treats of the skeleton; also, a
treatise on the skeleton.

SKELETON
Skel"e*ton, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Anat.)
(a) The bony and cartilaginous framework which supports the soft
parts of a vertebrate animal.

Note: [See Illust. of the Human Skeleton, in Appendix.]
(b) The more or less firm or hardened framework of an invertebrate
animal.

Note: In a wider sense, the skeleton includes the whole connective-
tissue framework with the integument and its appendages. See
Endoskeleton, and Exoskeleton.

2. Hence, figuratively:
(a) A very thin or lean person.
(b) The framework of anything; the principal parts that support the
rest, but without the appendages.
The great skeleton of the world. Sir M. Hale.

(c) The heads and outline of a literary production, especially of a
sermon.

SKELETON
Skel"e*ton, a.

Defn: Consisting of, or resembling, a skeleton; consisting merely of
the framework or outlines; having only certain leading features of
anything; as, a skeleton sermon; a skeleton crystal. Skeleton bill, a
bill or draft made out in blank as to the amount or payee, but signed
by the acceptor. [Eng.] -- Skeleton key, a key with nearly the whole
substance of the web filed away, to adapt it to avoid the wards of a
lock; a master key; -- used for opening locks to which it has not
been especially fitted.
 -- Skeleton leaf, a leaf from which the pulpy part has been removed
by chemical means, the fibrous part alone remaining.
 -- Skeleton proof, a proof of a print or engraving, with the
inscription outlined in hair strokes only, such proofs being taken
before the engraving is finished.
 -- Skeleton regiment, a regiment which has its complement of
officers, but in which there are few enlisted men.
 -- Skeleton shrimp (Zool.), a small crustacean of the genus
Caprella. See Illust. under L?modipoda.

SKELETONIZE
Skel"e*ton*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skeletonized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Skeletonizing.]

Defn: To prepare a skeleton of; also, to reduce, as a leaf, to its
skeleton. Pop. Sci. Monthly.

SKELETONIZER
Skel"e*ton*i`zer, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any small moth whose larva eats the parenchyma of leaves,
leaving the skeleton; as, the apple-leaf skeletonizer.

SKELLUM
Skel"lum, n. Etym: [Dan. schelm, fr. G. schelm.]

Defn: A scoundrel. [Obs. or Scot.] Pepys. Burns.

SKELLY
Skel"ly, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Dan. skele, Sw. skela.]

Defn: To squint. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

SKELLY
Skel"ly, n.

Defn: A squint. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SKELP
Skelp, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. E. skelp to kick severely, to move
rapidly; Gael. sgealp, n., a slap with the palm of the hand, v., to
strike with the palm of the hand.]

1. A blow; a smart stroke. [Prov. Eng.] Brockett.

2. A squall; also, a heavy fall of rain. [Scot.]

SKELP
Skelp, v. t.

Defn: To strike; to slap. [Scot.] C. Reade.

SKELP
Skelp, n.

Defn: A wrought-iron plate from which a gun barrel or pipe is made by
bending and welding the edges together, and drawing the thick tube
thus formed.

SKELTER
Skel"ter, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Helter-skelter.]

Defn: To run off helter-skelter; to hurry; to scurry; -- with away or
off. [Colloq.] A. R. Wallace.

SKEN
Sken, v. i.

Defn: To squint. [Prov. Eng.]

SKENE
Skene, n.

Defn: See Skean. C. Kingsley.

SKEP
Skep, n. Etym: [Icel. skeppa a measure, bushel; cf. Gael. sgeap a
basket, a beehive.]

1. A coarse round farm basket. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Tusser.

2. A beehive. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SKEPTIC
Skep"tic, n. Etym: [Gr. skeptiko`s thoughtful, reflective, fr.
ske`ptesqai to look carefully or about, to view, consider: cf. L.
scepticus, F. sceptique. See Scope.] [Written also sceptic.]

1. One who is yet undecided as to what is true; one who is looking or
inquiring for what is true; an inquirer after facts or reasons.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: A doubter as to whether any fact or truth can be certainly
known; a universal doubter; a Pyrrhonist; hence, in modern usage,
occasionally, a person who questions whether any truth or fact can be
established on philosophical grounds; sometimes, a critical inquirer,
in opposition to a dogmatist.
All this criticism [of Hume] proceeds upon the erroneous hypothesis
that he was a dogmatist. He was a skeptic; that is, he accepted the
principles asserted by the prevailing dogmatism: and only showed that
such and such conclusions were, on these principles, inevitable. Sir
W. Hamilton.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: A person who doubts the existence and perfections of God, or
the truth of revelation; one who disbelieves the divine origin of the
Christian religion.
Suffer not your faith to be shaken by the sophistries of skeptics. S.
Clarke.

Note: This word and its derivatives are often written with c instead
of k in the first syllable, -- sceptic, sceptical, scepticism, etc.
Dr. Johnson, struck with the extraordinary irregularity of giving c
its hard sound before e, altered the spelling, and his example has
been followed by most of the lexicographers who have succeeded him;
yet the prevalent practice among English writers and printers is in
favor of the other mode. In the United States this practice is
reversed, a large and increasing majority of educated persons
preferring the orthography which is most in accordance with etymology
and analogy.

Syn.
 -- Infidel; unbeliever; doubter.
 -- See Infidel.

SKEPTIC; SKEPTICAL
Skep"tic, Skep"tic*al, a. Etym: [Written also sceptic, sceptical.]

1. Of or pertaining to a sceptic or skepticism; characterized by
skepticism; hesitating to admit the certainly of doctrines or
principles; doubting of everything.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: Doubting or denying the truth of revelation, or the sacred
Scriptures.
The skeptical system subverts the whole foundation of morals. R.
Hall.
-- Skep"tac*al*ly, adv.
 -- Skep"tic*al*ness, n.

SKEPTICISM
Skep"ti*cism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. scepticisme.] [Written also
scepticism.]

1. An undecided, inquiring state of mind; doubt; uncertainty.
That momentary amazement, and irresolution, and confusion, which is
the result of skepticism. Hune.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: The doctrine that no fact or principle can be certainly known;
the tenet that all knowledge is uncertain; Pyrrohonism; universal
doubt; the position that no fact or truth, however worthy of
confidence, can be established on philosophical grounds; critical
investigation or inquiry, as opposed to the positive assumption or
assertion of certain principles.

3. (Theol.)

Defn: A doubting of the truth of revelation, or a denial of the
divine origin of the Christian religion, or of the being,
perfections, or truth of God.
Let no . . . secret skepticism lead any one to doubt whether this
blessed prospect will be realized. S. Miller.

SKEPTICIZE
Skep"ti*cize, v. i.

Defn: To doubt; to pretend to doubt of everything. [R.]
To skepticize, where no one else will . . . hesitate. Shaftesbury.

SKERRY
Sker"ry, n.; pl. Skerries. Etym: [Of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. sker,
Sw. skar, Dan. ski. Cf. Scar a bank.]

Defn: A rocky isle; an insulated rock. [Scot.]

SKETCH
Sketch, n. Etym: [D. schets, fr. It. schizzo a sketch, a splash
(whence also F. esquisse; cf. Esquisse.); cf. It. schizzare to
splash, to sketch.]

Defn: An outline or general delineation of anything; a first rough or
incomplete draught or plan of any design; especially, in the fine
arts, such a representation of an object or scene as serves the
artist's purpose by recording its chief features; also, a preliminary
study for an original work.

Syn.
 -- Outline; delineation; draught; plan; design.
 -- Sketch, Outline, Delineation. An outline gives only the bounding
lines of some scene or picture. A sketch fills up the outline in
part, giving broad touches, by which an imperfect idea may be
conveyed. A delineation goes further, carrying out the more striking
features of the picture, and going so much into detail as to furnish
a clear conception of the whole. Figuratively, we may speak of the
outlines of a plan, of a work, of a project, etc., which serve as a
basis on which the subordinate parts are formed, or of sketches of
countries, characters, manners, etc., which give us a general idea of
the things described. Crabb.

SKETCH
Sketch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sketched; p. pr. & vb. n. Sketching.]
Etym: [Cf D. schetsen, It. schizzare. See Sketch, n.]

1. To draw the outline or chief features of; to make a rought of.

2. To plan or describe by giving the principal points or ideas of.

Syn.
 -- To delineate; design; draught; depict.

SKETCH
Sketch, v. i.

Defn: To make sketches, as of landscapes.

SKETCHBOOK
Sketch"book`, n.

Defn: A book of sketches or for sketches.

SKETCHER
Sketch"er, n.

Defn: One who sketches.

SKETCHILY
Sketch"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sketchy or incomplete manner. "Sketchily descriptive."
Bartlett.

SKETCHINESS
Sketch"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sketchy; lack of finish;
incompleteness.

SKETCHY
Sketch"y, a.

Defn: Containing only an outline or rough form; being in the manner
of a sketch; incomplete.
The execution is sketchy throughout; the head, in particular, is left
in the rough. J. S. Harford.

SKEW
Skew, adv. Etym: [Cf. D. scheef. Dan. ski, Sw. skef, Icel. skeifr, G.
schief, also E. shy, a. & v. i.]

Defn: Awry; obliquely; askew.

SKEW
Skew, a.

Defn: Turned or twisted to one side; situated obliquely; skewed; --
chiefly used in technical phrases. Skew arch, an oblique arch. See
under Oblique.
 -- Skew back. (Civil Engin.) (a) The course of masonry, the stone,
or the iron plate, having an inclined face, which forms the abutment
for the voussoirs of a segmental arch. (b) A plate, cap, or shoe,
having an inclined face to receive the nut of a diagonal brace, rod,
or the end of an inclined strut, in a truss or frame.
 -- Skew bridge. See under Bridge, n.
 -- Skew curve (Geom.), a curve of double curvature, or a twisted
curve. See Plane curve, under Curve.
 -- Skew gearing, or Skew bevel gearing (Mach.), toothed gearing,
generally resembling bevel gearing, for connecting two shafts that
are neither parallel nor intersecting, and in which the teeth slant
across the faces of the gears.
 -- Skew surface (Geom.), a ruled surface such that in general two
successive generating straight lines do not intersect; a warped
surface; as, the helicoid is a skew surface.
 -- Skew symmetrical determinant (Alg.), a determinant in which the
elements in each column of the matrix are equal to the elements of
the corresponding row of the matrix with the signs changed, as in
(1), below. (1) 0 2 -3-2 0 53 -5 0 (2) 4 -1 71 8 -2-7 2 1

Note: This requires that the numbers in the diagonal from the upper
left to lower right corner be zeros. A like determinant in which the
numbers in the diagonal are not zeros is a skew determinant, as in
(2), above.

SKEW
Skew, n. (Arch.)

Defn: A stone at the foot of the slope of a gable, the offset of a
buttress, or the like, cut with a sloping surface and with a check to
receive the coping stones and retain them in place.

SKEW
Skew, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Skewed; p. pr. & vb. n. Skewing.]

1. To walk obliquely; to go sidling; to lie or move obliquely.
Child, you must walk straight, without skewing. L'Estrange.

2. To start aside; to shy, as a horse. [Prov. Eng.]

3. To look obliquely; to squint; hence, to look slightingly or
suspiciously. Beau & Fl.

SKEW
Skew, v. t. Etym: [See Skew, adv.]

1. To shape or form in an oblique way; to cause to take an oblique
position.

2. To throw or hurl obliquely.

SKEWBALD
Skew"bald`, a.

Defn: Marked with spots and patches of white and some color other
than black; -- usually distinguished from piebald, in which the
colors are properly white and black. Said of horses.

SKEWER
Skew"er, n. Etym: [Probably of Scand, origin; cf. Sw. & Dan. skifer a
slate. Cf. Shuver a fragment.]

Defn: A pin of wood or metal for fastening meat to a spit, or for
keeping it in form while roasting.
Meat well stuck with skewers to make it look round. Swift.

SKEWER
Skew"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skewered; p. pr. & vb. n. Skewering.]

Defn: To fasten with skewers.

SKI
Ski, n.

Defn: Same as Skee.

SKIAGRAPH; SKIAGRAPHY
Ski"a*graph, n. Ski*ag"ra*phy, n., etc.

Defn: See Sciagraph, Sciagraphy, etc.

SKIASCOPE; SCIASCOPE
Ski"a*scope, Sci"a*scope, n. [Gr.  a shadow + -scope.] (Med.)

Defn: A device for determining the refractive state of the eye by
observing the movements of the retinal lights and shadows. --
Ski*as"co*py (#), Ski*as"co*py (#), n.

SKID
Skid, n. Etym: [Icel. ski a billet of wood. See Shide.] [Written also
skeed.]

1. A shoe or clog, as of iron, attached to a chain, and placed under
the wheel of a wagon to prevent its turning when descending a steep
hill; a drag; a skidpan; also, by extension, a hook attached to a
chain, and used for the same purpose.

2. A piece of timber used as a support, or to receive pressure.
Specifically: (a) pl. (Naut.)

Defn: Large fenders hung over a vessel's side to protect it in
handling a cargo. Totten.
(b) One of a pair of timbers or bars, usually arranged so as to form
an inclined plane, as form a wagon to a door, along which anything is
moved by sliding or rolling.
(c) One of a pair of horizontal rails or timbers for supporting
anything, as a boat, a barrel, etc.

SKID
Skid, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skidded; p. pr. & vb. n. Skidding.]

1. To protect or support with a skid or skids; also, to cause to move
on skids.

2. To check with a skid, as wagon wheels. Dickens.

SKIDDAW
Skid"daw`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The black guillemot. [Prov. Eng.]

SKIDDER
Skid"der, n. One that skids; one that uses a skid; specif.: (Logging)
 (a) One that skids logs.
 (b) An engine for hauling the cable used in skidding logs.
 (c) The foreman of a construction gang making a skid road.

SKIDPAN
Skid"pan`, n.

Defn: See Skid, n., 1. [Eng.]

SKID ROAD
Skid road. (Logging)
 (a) A road along which logs are dragged to the skidway or landing; -
- called also travois, or travoy, road.
 (b) A road having partly sunken transverse logs (called skids) at
intervals of about five feet.

SKIED
Skied,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Sky, v. t.

SKIEY
Ski"ey, a.

Defn: See Skyey. Shelley.

SKIFF
Skiff, n. Etym: [F. esquif, fr. OHG. skif, G. schiff. See Ship.]

Defn: A small, light boat.
The pilot of some small night-foundered skiff. Milton.
Skiff caterpillar (Zool.), the larva of a moth (Limacodes scapha); --
so called from its peculiar shape.

SKIFF
Skiff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skiffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Skiffing.]

Defn: To navigate in a skiff. [R.]

SKIFFLING
Skif"fling, n. (Quarrying)

Defn: Rough dressing by knocking off knobs or projections; knobbing.

SKILDER
Skil"der, v. i.

Defn: To beg; to pilfer; to skelder. [Prov. Eng.& Scot.] Sir W.
Scott.

SKILFUL
Skil"ful, a.

Defn: See Skilful.

SKILL
Skill, n. Etym: [Icel. skil a distinction, discernment; akin to
skilja to separate, divide, distinguish, Sw. skilja,. skille to
separate, skiel reason, right, justice, Sw. skal reason, Lith. skelli
to cleave. Cf. Shell, Shoal, a multitude.]

1. Discrimination; judgment; propriety; reason; cause. [Obs.] Shak.
"As it was skill and right." Chaucer.
For great skill is, he prove that he wrought. Chaucer.
[For with good reason he should test what he created.]

2. Knowledge; understanding. [Obsoles.]
That by his fellowship he color mightskill of any wight. Spenser.
Nor want we skill or art. Milton.

3. The familiar knowledge of any art or science, united with
readiness and dexterity in execution or performance, or in the
application of the art or science to practical purposes; power to
discern and execute; ability to perceive and perform; expertness;
aptitude; as, the skill of a mathematician, physician, surgeon,
mechanic, etc.
Phocion, . . . by his great wisdom and skill at negotiations,
diverted Alexander from the conquest of Athens. Swift.
Where patience her sweet skill imparts. Keble.

4. Display of art; exercise of ability; contrivance; address. [Obs.]
Richard . . . by a thousand princely skills, gathering so much corn
as if he meant not to return. Fuller.

5. Any particular art. [Obs.]
Learned in one skill, and in another kind of learning unskillful.
Hooker.

Syn.
 -- Dexterity; adroitness; expertness; art; aptitude; ability.
 -- Skill, Dexterity, Adroitness. Skill is more intelligent, denoting
familiar knowledge united to readiness of performance. Dexterity,
when applied to the body, is more mechanical, and refers to habitual
ease of execution. Adroitness involves the same image with dexterity,
and differs from it as implaying a general facility of movement
(especially in avoidance of danger or in escaping from a difficalty).
The same distinctions apply to the figurative sense of the words. A
man is skillful in any employment when he understands both its theory
and its practice. He is dexterous when he maneuvers with great
lightness. He is adroit in the use od quick, sudden, and well-
directed movements of the body or the mind, so as to effect the
object he has in view.

SKILL
Skill, v. t.

Defn: To know; to understand. [Obs.]
To skill the arts of expressing our mind. Barrow.

SKILL
Skill, v. i.

1. To be knowing; to have understanding; to be dexterous in
performance. [Obs.]
I can not skill of these thy ways. Herbert.

2. To make a difference; to signify; to matter; -- used impersonally.
Spenser.
What skills it, if a bag of stones or gold About thy neck do drown
thee Herbert.
It skills not talking of it. Sir W. Scott.

SKILLED
Skilled, a.

Defn: Having familiar knowledge united with readiness and dexterity
in its application; familiarly acquainted with; expert; skillful; --
often followed by in; as, a person skilled in drawing or geometry.

SKILLET
Skil"let, n. Etym: [OF. escuelette, dim. of escuelle a porringer, F.
ecuelle, fr. L. scutella, dim. of scutra, scuta, a dish. Cf. Scuttle
a basket.]

Defn: A small vessel of iron, copper, or other metal, with a handle,
used for culinary purpose, as for stewing meat.

SKILLFUL
Skill"ful, a. Etym: [Written also skilful.]

1. Discerning; reasonable; judicious; cunning. [Obs.] "Of skillful
judgment." Chaucer.

2. Possessed of, or displaying, skill; knowing and ready; expert;
well-versed; able in management; as, a skillful mechanic; -- often
followed by at, in, or of; as, skillful at the organ; skillful in
drawing.
And they shall call the husbandman to mourning, and such as are
skillful of lamentations to wailing. Amos v. 16.

Syn.
 -- Expert; skilled; dexterous; adept; masterly; adroit; clever;
cunning.
 -- Skill"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Skill"ful*ness, n.

SKILLIGALEE
Skil`li*ga*lee", n.

Defn: A kind of thin, weak broth or oatmeal porridge, served out to
prisoners and paupers in England; also, a drink made of oatmeal,
sugar, and water, sometimes used in the English navy or army.
[Written also skilligolee, skillygalee, etc.]

SKILLING
Skil"ling, n. Etym: [Cf. Sheeling.]

Defn: A bay of a barn; also, a slight addition to a cottage. [Prov.
Eng.]

SKILLING
Skil"ling, n. Etym: [Sw. & Dan. See Shilling.]

Defn: A money od account in Sweden, Norwey, Denmark, and North
Germany, and also a coin. It had various values, from three fourths
of a cent in Norway to more than two cents in Lubeck.

SKILL-LESS
Skill"-less, a.

Defn: Wanting skill. Shak.

SKILTS
Skilts, n. pl.

Defn: A kind of large, coarse, short trousers formerly worn. [Local,
U. S.] Bartlett.

SKILTY
Skil"ty, n.

Defn: The water rail. [Prov. Eng.]

SKIM
Skim, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skimmed; p. pr. & vb. n. Skimming.] Etym:
[Cf. Sw. skymma to darken. sq. root158. See Scum.]

1. To clear (a liquid) from scum or substance floating or lying
thereon, by means of a utensil that passes just beneath the surface;
as, to skim milk; to skim broth.

2. To take off by skimming; as, to skim cream.

3. To pass near the surface of; to brush the surface of; to glide
swiftly along the surface of.
Homer describes Mercury as flinging himself from the top of Olympus,
and skimming the surface of the ocean. Hazlitt.

4. Fig.: To read or examine superficially and rapidly, in order to
cull the principal facts or thoughts; as, to skim a book or a
newspaper.

SKIM
Skim, v. i.

1. To pass lightly; to glide along in an even, smooth course; to
glide along near the surface.
Not so when swift Camilla scours the plain, Flies o'er the unbending
corn, and skims along the main. Pope.

2. To hasten along with superficial attention.
They skim over a science in a very superficial survey. I. Watts.

3. To put on the finishing coat of plaster.

SKIM
Skim, a.

Defn: Contraction of Skimming and Skimmed. Skim coat, the final or
finishing coat of plaster.
 -- Skim colter, a colter for paring off the surface of land.
 -- Skim milk, skimmed milk; milk from which the cream has been
taken.

SKIM
Skim, n.

Defn: Scum; refuse. Bryskett.

SKIMBACK
Skim"back`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The quillback. [Local, U.S.]

SKIMBLE-SCAMBLE
Skim"ble-scam`ble, a. Etym: [A reduplication of scamble.]

Defn: Rambling; disorderly; unconnected. [Colloq.]
Such a deal of skimble-scamble stuff. Shak.

SKIMITRY
Skim"i*try, n.

Defn: See Skimmington.

SKIMMER
Skim"mer, n.

1. One who, or that which, skims; esp., a utensil with which liquids
are skimmed.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of longwinged marine birds of the genus Rhynchops,
allied to the terns, but having the lower mandible compressed and
much longer than the upper one. These birds fly rapidly along the
surface of the water, with the lower mandible immersed, thus skimming
out small fishes. The American species (R. nigra) is common on the
southern coasts of the United States. Called also scissorbill, and
shearbill.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several large bivalve shells, sometimes used for
skimming milk, as the sea clams, and large scallops.

SKIMMERTON
Skim"mer*ton, n.

Defn: See Skimmington.

SKIMMING
Skim"ming, n.

1. The act of one who skims.

2. That which is skimmed from the surface of a liquid; -- chiefly
used in the plural; as, the skimmings of broth.

SKIMMINGLY
Skim"ming*ly, adv.

Defn: In a skimming manner.

SKIMMINGTON
Skim"ming*ton, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain. Perhaps the name of some
notorius scold.]

Defn: A word employed in the phrase, To ride Skimmington; that is to
ride on a horse with a woman, but behind her, facing backward,
carrying a distaff, and accompanied by a procession of jeering
neighbors making mock music; a cavalcade in ridicule of a henpecked
man. The custom was in vogue in parts of England.

SKIMP
Skimp, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skimped; p. pr. & vb. n. Skimping.] Etym:
[Cf. Skinch, Scamp, v. t.]

1. To slight; to do carelessly; to scamp. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.]

2. To make insufficient allowance for; to scant; to scrimp. [Prov.
Eng. & Colloq. U. S.]

SKIMP
Skimp, v. i.

Defn: To save; to be parsimonious or niggardly. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq.
U.S.]

SKIMP
Skimp, a.

Defn: Scanty. [Prov. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.]

SKIN
Skin, n. Etym: [Icel. skinn; akin to Sw. skinn, Dan. skind, AS.
scinn, G. schined to skin.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The external membranous integument of an animal.

Note: In man, and the vertebrates generally, the skin consist of two
layers, an outer nonsensitive and nonvascular epidermis, cuticle, or
skarfskin, composed of cells which are constantly growing and
multiplying in the deeper, and being thrown off in the superficial,
layers; and an inner sensitive, and vascular dermis, cutis, corium,
or true skin, composed mostly of connective tissue.

2. The hide of an animal, separated from the body, whether green,
dry, or tanned; especially, that of a small animal, as a calf, sheep,
or goat.

3. A vessel made of skin, used for holding liquids. See Bottle, 1.
"Skins of wine." Tennyson.

4. The bark or husk of a plant or fruit; the exterior coat of fruits
and plants.

5. (Naut.)
(a) That part of a sail, when furled, which remains on the outside
and covers the whole. Totten.
(b) The covering, as of planking or iron plates, outside the framing,
forming the sides and bottom of a vessel; the shell; also, a lining
inside the framing. Skin friction, Skin resistance (Naut.), the
friction, or resistance, caused by the tendency of water to adhere to
the immersed surface (skin) of a vessel.
 -- Skin graft (Surg.), a small portion of skin used in the process
of grafting. See Graft, v. t., 2.
 -- Skin moth (Zool.), any insect which destroys the prepared skins
of animals, especially the larva of Dermestes and Anthrenus.
 -- Skin of the teeth, nothing, or next to nothing; the least
possible hold or advantage. Job xix. 20.
 -- Skin wool, wool taken from dead sheep.

SKIN
Skin, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skinned; p. pr. & vb. n. Skinning.]

1. To strip off the skin or hide of; to flay; to peel; as, to skin an
animal.

2. To cover with skin, or as with skin; hence, to cover
superficially.
It will but skin and film the ulcerous place. Shak.

3. To strip of money or property; to cheat. [Slang]

SKIN
Skin, v. i.

1. To become covered with skin; as, a wound skins over.

2. To produce, in recitation, examination, etc., the work of another
for one's own, or to use in such exercise cribs, memeoranda, etc.,
which are prohibited. [College Cant, U.S.]

SKINBOUND
Skin"bound`, a.

Defn: Having the skin adhering closely and rigidly to the flesh;
hidebound. Skinbound disease. (Med.) See Sclerema neonatorum, under
Sclerema.

SKINCH
Skinch, v. t. & i. [imp. & p. p. Skinched; p. pr. & vb. n.
Skinching.] Etym: [Cf. Scant.]

Defn: To give scant measure; to squeeze or pinch in order to effect a
saving. [Prev. Eng. & Colloq. U.S.]

SKIN-DEEP
Skin"-deep`, a.

Defn: Not deeper than the skin; hence, superficial. Lowell.

SKINFLINT
Skin"flint`, n. Etym: [Skin + flint.]

Defn: A penurious person; a miser; a niggard. Sir W. Scott.

SKINFUL
Skin"ful, n.; pl. Skinfuls (.

Defn: As much as a skin can hold.

SKINK
Skink, n. Etym: [L. scincus, Gr. [Written also scink.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of regularly scaled harmless
lizards of the family Scincid?, common in the warmer parts of all the
continents.

Note: The officinal skink (Scincus officinalis) inhabits the sandy
plains of South Africa. It was believed by the ancients to be a
specific for various diseases. A common slender species (Seps
tridactylus) of Southern Europe was formerly believed to produce
fatal diseases in cattle by mere contact. The American skinks include
numerous species of the genus Eumeces, as the blue-tailed skink (E.
fasciatus) of the Eastern United States. The ground skink, or ground
lizard (Oligosoma laterale) inhabits the Southern United States.

SKINK
Skink, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skinked; p. pr. & vb. n. Skinking.] Etym:
[Icel. skenja; akin to Sw. skaka, Dan. skienke, AS. scencan, D. & G.
schenken. As. scencan is usually derived from sceonc, sceanc, shank,
a hollow bone being supposed to have been used to draw off liquor
from a cask. sq. root161. See Shank, and cf. Nunchion.]

Defn: To draw or serve, as drink. [Obs.]
Bacchus the wine them skinketh all about. Chaucer.
Such wine as Ganymede doth skink to Jove. Shirley.

SKINK
Skink, v. i.

Defn: To serve or draw liquor. [Obs.]

SKINK
Skink, n.

Defn: Drink; also, pottage. [Obs.] Bacon.

SKINKER
Skink"er, n.

Defn: One who serves liquor; a tapster.

SKINLESS
Skin"less, a.

Defn: Having no skin, or a very thin skin; as, skinless fruit.

SKINNER
Skin"ner, n.

1. One who skins.

2. One who deals in skins, pelts, or hides.

SKINNINESS
Skin"ni*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being skinny.

SKINNY
Skin"ny, a.

Defn: Consisting, or chiefly consisting, of skin; wanting flesh. "Her
skinny lips." Shak.
He holds him with a skinny hand. Coleridge.

SKIP
Skip, n. Etym: [See Skep.]

1. A basket. See Skep. [Obs. or Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

2. A basket on wheels, used in cotton factories.

3. (Mining)

Defn: An iron bucket, which slides between guides, for hoisting
mineral and rock.

4. (Sugar Manuf.)

Defn: A charge of sirup in the pans.

5. A beehive; a skep.

SKIP
Skip, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Skipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Skipping.] Etym:
[OE. skippen, of uncertain origin; cf. Icel. skopa run, skoppa to
spin like a top, OSw. & dial. Sw. skimmpa to run, skimpa, skompa, to
hop, skip; or Ir. sgiob to snatch, Gael. sgiab to start or move
suddenly, to snatch, W. ysgipio to snatch.]

1. To leap lightly; to move in leaps and hounds; -- commonly implying
a sportive spirit.
The lamb thy riot dooms to bleed to-day, Had he thy reason, would he
skip and play Pope.
So she drew her mother away skipping, dancing, and frisking
fantastically. Hawthorne.

2. Fig.: To leave matters unnoticed, as in reading, speaking, or
writing; to pass by, or overlook, portions of a thing; -- often
followed by over.

SKIP
Skip, v. t.

1. To leap lightly over; as, to skip the rope.

2. To pass over or by without notice; to omit; to miss; as, to skip a
line in reading; to skip a lesson.
They who have a mind to see the issue may skip these two chapters.
Bp. Burnet.

3. To cause to skip; as, to skip a stone. [Colloq.]

SKIP
Skip, n.

1. A light leap or bound.

2. The act of passing over an interval from one thing to another; an
omission of a part.

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A passage from one sound to another by more than a degree at
once. Busby. Skip kennel, a lackey; a footboy. [Slang.] Swift.
 -- Skip mackerel. (Zool.) See Bluefish, 1.

SKIPJACK
Skip"jack`, n.

1. An upstart. [Obs.] Ford.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: An elater; a snap bug, or snapping beetle.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A name given to several kinds of a fish, as the common
bluefish, the alewife, the bonito, the butterfish, the cutlass fish,
the jurel, the leather jacket, the runner, the saurel, the saury, the
threadfish, etc.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A shallow sailboat with a rectilinear or V-shaped cross
section.

SKIPPER
Skip"per, n.

1. One who, or that which, skips.

2. A young, thoughtless person. Shak.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The saury (Scomberesox saurus).

4. The cheese maggot. See Cheese fly, under Cheese.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small butterflies of the family
Hesperiad?; -- so called from their peculiar short, jerking flight.

SKIPPER
Skip"per, n. Etym: [D. schipper. See Shipper, and Ship.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: The master of a fishing or small trading vessel; hence, the
master, or captain, of any vessel.

2. A ship boy. [Obs.] Congreve.

SKIPPET
Skip"pet, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. skip, E. skipper. See Ship.]

1. A small boat; a skiff. [Obs.]
A little skippet floating did appear. Spenser.

2. A small round box for keeping records. [Obs.]

SKIPPINGLY
Skip"ping*ly, adv.

Defn: In a skipping manner; by skips, or light leaps.

SKIRL
Skirl, v. t.& i. Etym: [Of Scand. origin, and originally the same
word as E. shrill.]

Defn: To utter in a shrill tone; to scream. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SKIRL
Skirl, n.

Defn: A shrill cry or sound. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SKIRLCOCK
Skirl"cock`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The missel thrush; -- so called from its harsh alarm note.
[Prev. Eng.]

SKIRLCRAKE
Skirl"crake`, n.

Defn: The turnstone. [Prev. Eng.]

SKIRLING
Skirl"ing, n.

Defn: A shrill cry or sound; a crying shrilly; a skirl. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.] Sir W. Scott.
When the skirling of the pipes cleft the air his cold eyes softened.
Mrs. J. H. Ewing.

SKIRLING
Skirl"ing, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A small trout or salmon; -- a name used loosely. [Prov. Eng.]

SKIRMISH
Skir"mish, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Skirmished; p. pr. & vb. n.
Skirmishing.] Etym: [OE. skirmishen, scarmishen, OF. escremir,
eskermir, to fence, fight, F. escrimer, of German origin; cf. OHG.
scirmen to protect, defend, G. schirmen, OHG. scirm, scerm,
protection, shield, G. schirm; perhaps akin to Gr. Scaramouch,
Scrimmage.]

Defn: To fight slightly or in small parties; to engage in a skirmish
or skirmishes; to act as skirmishers.

SKIRMISH
Skir"mish, n.Etym: [OE. scarmishe, scrymishe. See Skirmish, v. i.]

1. A slight fight in war; a light or desultory combat between
detachments from armies, or between detached and small bodies of
troops.

2. A slight contest.
They never meet but there's a skirmish of wit. Shak.

SKIRMISHER
Skir"mish*er, n.

Defn: One who skirmishes. Specifically: pl. (Mil.)

Defn: Soldiers deployed in loose order, to cover the front or flanks
of an advancing army or a marching column.

SKIRR
Skirr, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Scur, Scurry.]

Defn: To ramble over in order to clear; to scour. [Archaic] Shak.

SKIRR
Skirr, v. i.

Defn: To scour; to scud; to run. [Archaic]

SKIRR
Skirr, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A tern. [Prov. Eng.]

SKIRRET
Skir"ret, n. Etym: [A corrupted form equivalent to sugarwort.] (Bot.)

Defn: An umbelliferous plant (Sium, or Pimpinella, Sisarum). It is a
native of Asia, but has been long cultivated in Europe for its edible
clustered tuberous roots, which are very sweet.

SKIRRHUS
Skir"rhus, n. (Med.)

Defn: See Scirrhus.

SKIRT
Skirt, n. Etym: [OE. skyrt, of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. skyrta a
shirt, Sw. skort a skirt, skjorta a shirt. See Shirt.]

1. The lower and loose part of a coat, dress, or other like garment;
the part below the waist; as, the skirt of a coat, a dress, or a
mantle.

2. A loose edging to any part of a dress. [Obs.]
A narrow lace, or a small skirt of ruffled linen, which runs along
the upper part of the stays before, and crosses the breast, being a
part of the tucker, is called the modesty piece. Addison.

3. Border; edge; margin; extreme part of anything "Here in the skirts
of the forest." Shak.

4. A petticoat.

5. The diaphragm, or midriff, in animals. Dunglison.

SKIRT
Skirt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skirted; p. pr. & vb. n. Skirting.]

1. To cover with a skirt; to surround.
Skirted his loins and thighs with downy gold. Milton.

2. To border; to form the border or edge of; to run along the edge
of; as, the plain was skirted by rows of trees. "When sundown skirts
the moor." Tennyson.

SKIRT
Skirt, v. t.

Defn: To be on the border; to live near the border, or extremity.
Savages . . . who skirt along our western frontiers. S. S. Smith.

SKIRTING
Skirt"ing, n.

1. (Arch.)

Defn: A skirting board. [R.]

2. Skirts, taken collectivelly; material for skirts. Skirting board,
the board running around a room on the wall next the floor;
baseboard.

SKIT
Skit, v. t. Etym: [Prov. E. skitto slide, as adj., hasty,
precipitate, of Scand. origin, and akin to E. shoot, v.t.; cf. Icel.
skyti, skytja, skytta, a marksman, shooter, skjota to shoot, skuta a
taunt. sq. root159. See Shoot.]

Defn: To cast reflections on; to asperse. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Crose.

SKIT
Skit, n.

1. A reflection; a jeer or gibe; a sally; a brief satire; a squib.
Tooke.
A similar vein satire upon the emptiness of writers is given in his
"Tritical Essay upon the Faculties of the Human Mind;" but that is a
mere skit compared with this strange performance. Leslie Stephen.

2. A wanton girl; a light wench. [Obs.]

SKITTER
Skit"ter, v. t. [Cf. Skit, v. t.]

Defn: To move or pass (something) over a surface quickly so that it
touches only at intervals; to skip.

The angler, standing in the bow, 'skitters' or skips the spoon over
the surface.
James A. Henshall.

SKITTER
Skit"ter, v. i.

Defn: To pass or glide lightly or with quick touches at intervals; to
skip; to skim.

Some kinds of ducks in lighting strike the water with their tails
first, and skitter along the surface for a feet before settling down.
T. Roosevelt.

SKITTISH
Skit"tish, a. Etym: [See Skit, v. t.]

1. Easily frightened; timorous; shy; untrustworthy; as, a skittish
colt. "A restiff, skittish jade." L'Estrange.

2. Wanton; restive; freakish; volatile; changeable; fickle. "Skittish
Fortune's hall." Shak.
 -- Skit"tish*ly, adv.
 -- Skit"tish*ness, n.

SKITTLE
Skit"tle, a.

Defn: Pertaining to the game of skittles. Skittle alley, an alley or
court in which the game of skittles is played.
 -- Skittle ball, a disk or flattish ball of wood for throwing at the
pins in the game of skittles.

SKITTLE-DOG
Skit"tle-dog`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The piked dogfish.

SKITTLES
Skit"tles, n. pl. Etym: [Of Scand. origin. sq. root159. See Shoot, v.
t., and cf. Shuttle, Skit, v. t.]

Defn: An English game resembling ninepins, but played by throwing
wooden disks, instead of rolling balls, at the pins.

SKITTY
Skit"ty, n. Etym: [Cf. Skittish.] (Zool.)

Defn: A rail; as, the water rail (called also skitty cock, and skitty
coot); the spotted crake (Porzana maruetta), and the moor hen. [Prov.
Eng.]

SKIVE
Skive, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. skifa a shaving, slice, E. shive, sheave.]

Defn: The iron lap used by diamond polishers in finishing the facets
of the gem.

SKIVE
Skive, v. t.

Defn: To pare or shave off the rough or thick parts of (hides or
leather).

SKIVER
Skiv"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Skewer, Shiver a fragment.]

1. An inferior quality of leather, made of split sheepskin, tanned by
immersion in sumac, and dyed. It is used for hat linings,
pocketbooks, bookbinding, etc.

2. The cutting tool or machine used in splitting leather or skins, as
sheepskins.

SKIVING
Ski"ving, n.

1. The act of paring or splitting leather or skins.

2. A piece made in paring or splitting leather; specifically, the
part from the inner, or flesh, side.

SKLAYRE
Sklayre, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schleier.]

Defn: A vell. [Obs.]

SKLERE
Sklere, v. t.

Defn: To shelter; to cover. [Obs.]

SKOLECITE; SKOLEZITE
Skol"e*cite, Skol"e*zite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Scolecite.

SKONCE
Skonce, n.

Defn: See Sconce.

SKOPSTER
Skop"ster, n.

Defn: The saury. [Prov. Eng.]

SKOPTSY
Skop*tsy", n. pl.

Defn: See Raskolnik.

SKORODITE
Skor"o*dite, n. (Min.)

Defn: See Scorodite.

SKOUT
Skout, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A guillemot.

SKOWITZ
Sko"witz, n. Etym: [Nisqually (American Indian) name.] (Zool.)

Defn: The silver salmon.

SKREEN
Skreen, n. & v.

Defn: See Screen. [Obs.]

SKRIKE
Skrike, v. i. & t.

Defn: To shriek. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SKRIKE
Skrike, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The missel thrush. [Prov. Eng.]

SKRIMMAGE
Skrim"mage, n.

Defn: See Scrimmage.

SKRIMP
Skrimp, v. t.

Defn: See Scrimp.

SKRINGE
Skringe, v. i.

Defn: See Scringe.

SKRITE
Skrite, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The skrike. [Prov. Eng.]

SKUA
Sku"a, n. Etym: [Icel. sk, sk.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any jager gull; especially, the Megalestris skua; -- called
also boatswain.

SKUE
Skue, a. & n.

Defn: See Skew.

SKULK
Skulk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Skulked; p. pr. & vb. n. Skulking.] Etym:
[Of Scand. origin; cf. Dan. skulke to spare or save one's self, to
play the truant, Sw. skolka to be at leisure, to shirk, Icel. skolla.
Cf. Scowl.]

Defn: To hide, or get out of the way, in a sneaking manner; to lie
close, or to move in a furtive way; to lurk. "Want skulks in holes
and crevices." W. C. Bryant.
Discovered and defeated of your prey, You skulked behind the fence,
and sneaked away. Dryden.

SKULK
Skulk, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. skollr, skolli, a fox, and E. skulk, v.i.]

Defn: A number of foxes together. Wright.

SKULK; SKULKER
Skulk, Skulk"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, skulks.

SKULKINGLY
Skulk"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a skulking manner.

SKULL
Skull, n. Etym: [See School a multitude.]

Defn: A school, company, or shoal. [Obs.]
A knavish skull of boys and girls did pelt at him. Warner.
These fishes enter in great flotes and skulls. Holland.

SKULL
Skull, n. Etym: [OE. skulle, sculle, scolle; akin to Scot. skull,
skoll, a bowl, Sw. skalle skull, skal a shell, and E. scale; cf. G.
hirnschale, Dan. hierneskal. Cf. Scale of a balance.]

1. (Anat.)

Defn: The skeleton of the head of a vertebrate animal, including the
brain case, or cranium, and the bones and cartilages of the face and
mouth. See Illusts. of Carnivora, of Facial angles under Facial, and
of Skeleton, in Appendix.

Note: In many fishes the skull is almost wholly cartilaginous but in
the higher vertebrates it is more or less completely ossified,
several bones are developed in the face, and the cranium is made up,
wholly or partially, of bony plates arranged in three segments, the
frontal, parietal, and occipital, and usually closely united in the
adult.

2. The head or brain; the seat of intelligence; mind.
Skulls that can not teach, and will not learn. Cowper.

3. A covering for the head; a skullcap. [Obs. & R.]
Let me put on my skull first. Beau & Fl.

4. A sort of oar. See Scull. Skull and crossbones, a symbol of death.
See Crossbones.

SKULLCAP
Skull"cap`, n.

1. A cap which fits the head closely; also, formerly, a headpiece of
iron sewed inside of a cap for protection.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Any plant of the labiate genus Scutellaria, the calyx of whose
flower appears, when inverted, like a helmet with the visor raised.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The Lophiomys. Mad-dog skullcap (Bot.), an American herb
(Scetellaria lateriflora) formerly prescribed as a cure for
hydrophobia.

SKULLFISH
Skull"fish`, n.

Defn: A whaler's name for a whale more than two years old.

SKULPIN
Skul"pin, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Sculpin.

SKUN
Skun, n. & v.

Defn: See Scum.

SKUNK
Skunk, n. Etym: [Contr. from the Abenaki (American Indian) seganku.]
(Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of American musteline carnivores of
the genus Mephitis and allied genera. They have two glands near the
anus, secreting an extremely fetid liquid, which the animal ejects at
pleasure as a means of defense.

Note: The common species of the Eastern United States (Mephitis
mephitica) is black with more or less white on the body and tail. The
spotted skunk (Spilogale putorius), native of the Southwestern United
States and Mexico, is smaller than the common skunk, and is variously
marked with black and white. Skunk bird, Skunk blackbird (Zool.), the
bobolink; -- so called because the male, in the breeding season, is
black and white, like a skunk.
 -- Skunk cabbage (Bot.), an American aroid herb (Symplocarpus
foetidus) having a reddish hornlike spathe in earliest spring,
followed by a cluster of large cabbagelike leaves. It exhales a
disagreeable odor. Also called swamp cabbage.
 -- Skunk porpoise. (Zool.) See under Porpoise.

SKUNK
Skunk, v. t.

Defn: In games of chance and skill: To defeat (an opponent) (as in
cards) so that he fails to gain a point, or (in checkers) to get a
king. [Colloq.

Defn: U. S.]

SKUNKBALL
Skunk"ball`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The surf duck.

SKUNKHEAD
Skunk"head`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The surf duck.
(b) A duck (Camptolaimus Labradorus) which formerly inhabited the
Atlantic coast of New England. It is now supposed to be extinct.
Called also Labrador duck, and pied duck.

SKUNKISH
Skunk"ish, a.

Defn: Like the skunk, especially in odor.

SKUNKTOP
Skunk"top`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The surf duck.

SKUNKWEED
Skunk"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Skunk cabbage.

SKURRY
Skur"ry, n. & v.

Defn: See Scurry.

SKUTE
Skute, n. Etym: [Icel. sk; akin to Sw. skuta, Dan. skude, D. schuit,
Lg. schute, and E. schoot, v.t.]

Defn: A boat; a small vessel. [Obs.] Sir R. Williams.

SKUTTERUDITE
Skut"ter*ud*ite, n. Etym: [From Skuttertid, in Norway, whence it is
ibtained.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a bright metallic luster and tin-white to pale
lead-gray color. It consist of arsenic and cobalt.

SKY
Sky, n.; pl. Skies. Etym: [OE. skie a cloud, Icel. sk; akin to Sw. &
Dan. sky; cf. AS. sc, sc, shadow, Icel. skuggi; probably from the
same root as E. scum. sq. root158. See Scum, and cf. Hide skin,
Obscure.]

1. A cloud. [Obs.]
[A wind] that blew so hideously and high, That it ne lefte not a sky
In all the welkin long and broad. Chaucer.

2. Hence, a shadow. [Obs.]
She passeth as it were a sky. Gower.

3. The apparent arch, or vault, of heaven, which in a clear day is of
a blue color; the heavens; the firmament; -- sometimes in the plural.
The Norweyan banners flout the sky. Shak.

4. The wheather; the climate.
Thou wert better in thy grave than to answer with thy uncovered body
this extremity of the skies. Shak.

Note: Sky is often used adjectively or in the formation of self-
explaining compounds; as, sky color, skylight, sky-aspiring, sky-
born, sky-pointing, sky-roofed, etc. Sky blue, an azure color.
 -- Sky scraper (Naut.), a skysail of a triangular form. Totten.
 -- Under open sky, out of doors. "Under open sky adored." Milton.

SKY
Sky, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Skied or Skyed; p. pr. & vb. n. Skying.]

1. To hang (a picture on exhibition) near the top of a wall, where it
can not be well seen. [Colloq.]
Brother Academicians who skied his pictures. The Century.

2. To throw towards the sky; as, to sky a ball at cricket. [Colloq.]

SKY-BLUE
Sky"-blue, a.

Defn: Having the blue color of the sky; azure; as, a sky-blue stone.
Wordsworth.

SKYED
Skyed, a.

Defn: Surrounded by sky. [Poetic & R.] "The skyed mountain." Thomson.

SKYE TERRIER
Skye" ter"ri*er. (Zool.)

Defn: See Terrier.

SKYEY
Sky"ey, a.

Defn: Like the sky; ethereal; being in the sky. "Skyey regions."
Thackeray.
Sublime on the towers of my skyey bowers, Lightning, my pilot, sits.
Shelley.

SKY-HIGH
Sky"-high`

Defn: , adv. & a. Very high. [Colloq.]

SKYISH
Sky"ish, a.

Defn: Like the sky, or approaching the sky; lofty; ethereal. [R.]
Shak.

SKYLARK
Sky"lark`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A lark that mounts and sings as it files, especially the common
species (Alauda arvensis) found in Europe and in some parts of Asia,
and celebrated for its melodious song; -- called also sky laverock.
See under Lark.

Note: The Australian skylark (Cincloramphus cantillans) is a pipit
which has the habit of ascending perpendicularly like a skylark, but
it lacks the song of a true lark. The Missouri skylark is a pipit
(Anthus Spraguei) of the Western United States, resembling the
skylark in habit and song.

SKYLARKING
Sky"lark"ing, n.

Defn: The act of running about the rigging of a vessel in sport;
hence, frolicking; scuffing; sporting; carousing. [Colloq.]

SKYLIGHT
Sky"light`, n.

Defn: A window placed in the roof of a building, in the ceiling of a
room, or in the deck of a ship, for the admission of light from
above.

SKYMAN
Sky"man, n.; pl. -men.

Defn: An aeronaut. [Slang]

SKY PILOT
Sky pilot. (Aeronautics)

Defn: A person licensed as a pilot. [Slang]

SKYROCKET
Sky"rock`et, n.

Defn: A rocket that ascends high and burns as it flies; a species of
fireworks.

SKYSAIL
Sky"sail, n. (Naut.)

Defn: The sail set next above the royal. See Illust. under Sail.

SKYSCRAPER
Sky"scrap`er, n.
 (a) (Naut.) (1) A skysail of a triangular form. [Rare] (2)

Defn: A name for the one of the fancy sails alleged to have been
sometimes set above the skysail. [Obs.]
 (b) A very tall building.
 (c) Hence, anything usually large, high, or excessive. [Slang or
Colloq.]

SKYWARD
Sky"ward, a. & adv.

Defn: Toward the sky.

SLAB
Slab, n. Etym: [OE. slabbe, of uncertain origin; perhaps originally
meaning, a smooth piece, and akin to slape, Icel. sleipr slippery,
and E. slip, v. i.]

1. A thin piece of anything, especially of marble or other stone,
having plane surfaces. Gwilt.

2. An outside piece taken from a log or timber in sawing it into
boards, planks, etc.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: The wryneck. [Prov. Eng.]

4. (Naut.)

Defn: The slack part of a sail. Slab line (Naut.), a line or small
rope by which seamen haul up the foot of the mainsail or foresail.
Totten.

SLAB
Slab, a. Etym: [Cf. Gael. & Ir. slaib mud, mire left on a river
strand, and E. slop puddle.]

Defn: Thick; viscous. [Obs.]
Make the gruel thick and slab. Shak.

SLAB
Slab, n.

Defn: That which is slimy or viscous; moist earth; mud; also, a
puddle. [Obs.] Evelyn.

SLABBER
Slab"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slabbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Slabbering.]
Etym: [OE. slaberen; akin to LG. & D. slabbern, G. schlabbern, LG. &
D. slabben, G. schlabben, Icel. slafra. Cf. Slaver, Slobber,
Slubber.]

Defn: To let saliva or some liquid fall from the mouth carelessly,
like a child or an idiot; to drivel; to drool. [Written also slaver,
and slobber.]

SLABBER
Slab"ber, v. t.

1. To wet and foul spittle, or as if with spittle.
He slabbered me over, from cheek to cheek, with his great tongue.
Arbuthnot.

2. To spill liquid upon; to smear carelessly; to spill, as liquid
foed or drink, in careless eating or drinking.
The milk pan and cream pot so slabbered and tost That butter is
wanting and cheese is half lost. Tusser.

SLABBER
Slab"ber, n.

Defn: Spittle; saliva; slaver.

SLABBER
Slab"ber, n. Etym: [See 1st Slab.] (Mach.)
(a) A saw for cutting slabs from logs.
(b) A slabbing machine.

SLABBERER
Slab"ber*er, n.

Defn: One who slabbers, or drools; hence, an idiot.

SLABBERY
Slab"ber*y, a.

Defn: Like, or covered with, slabber or slab; slippery; sloppy.

SLABBINESS
Slab"bi*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being slabby.

SLABBING
Slab"bing, a. Etym: [See 1st Slab.]

Defn: Adapted for forming slabs, or for dressing flat surfaces.
Slabbing machine, a milling machine.

SLABBY
Slab"by, a. [Compar. Slabbier; superl. Slabbiest.] Etym: [See Slab,
a.]

1. Thick; viscous.
They present you with a cup, and you must drink of a slabby stuff.
Selden.

2. Sloppy; slimy; miry. See Sloppy. Gay.

SLAB-SIDED
Slab"-sid`ed, a.

Defn: Having flat sides; hence, tall, or long and lank. [Colloq. U.
S.]

SLACK
Slack, n. Etym: [Cf. Slag.]

Defn: Small coal; also, coal dust; culm. Raymond.

SLACK
Slack, n. Etym: [Icel. slakki a slope on a mountain edge.]

Defn: A valley, or small, shallow dell. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.

SLACK
Slack, a. [Compar. Slacker; superl. Slackest.] Etym: [OE. slak, AS.
sleac; akin to OS. slak, OHG. slah, Prov. G. schlack, Icel. slakr,
Sw. slak; cf. Skr. srsj to let loose, to throw. Cf. Slake.]

Defn: Lax; not tense; not hard drawn; not firmly extended; as, a
slack rope.

2. Weak; not holding fast; as, a slack hand. Milton.

3. Remiss; backward; not using due diligence or care; not earnest or
eager; as, slack in duty or service.
The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count
slackness. 2 Pet. iii. 9.

4. Not violent, rapid, or pressing; slow; moderate; easy; as,
business is slack. "With slack pace." Chaucer.
Cslack southwest, at midnight was becalmed. Milton.
Slack in stays (Naut.), slow in going about, as a ship.
 -- Slack water, the time when the tide runs slowly, or the water is
at rest; or the interval between the flux and reflux of the tide.
 -- Slack-water navigation, navigation in a stream the depth of which
has been increased, and the current diminished, by a dam or dams.

Syn.
 -- Loose; relaxed; weak; remiss; backward; abated; diminished;
inactive; slow; tardy; dull.

SLACK
Slack, adv.

Defn: Slackly; as, slack dried hops.

SLACK
Slack, n.

Defn: The part of anything that hangs loose, having no strain upon
it; as, the slack of a rope or of a sail.

SLACK; SLACKEN
Slack, Slack"en, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slacked, Slackened (; p. pr. &
vb. n. Slacking, Slackening.] Etym: [See Slack, a.]

1. To become slack; to be made less tense, firm, or rigid; to
decrease in tension; as, a wet cord slackens in dry weather.

2. To be remiss or backward; to be negligent.

3. To lose cohesion or solidity by a chemical combination with water;
to slake; as, lime slacks.

4. To abate; to become less violent.
Whence these raging fires Will slacken, if his breath stir not their
flames. Milton.

5. To lose rapidity; to become more slow; as, a current of water
slackens.

6. To languish; to fail; to flag.

7. To end; to cease; to desist; to slake. [Obs.]
That through your death your lineage should slack. Chaucer.
They will not of that firste purpose slack. Chaucer.

SLACK; SLACKEN
Slack, Slack"en, v. t.

1. To render slack; to make less tense or firm; as, to slack a rope;
to slacken a bandage. Wycklif (Acts xxvii. 40)

2. To neglect; to be remiss in. [Obs.] Shak.
Slack not the pressage. Dryden.

3. To deprive of cohesion by combining chemically with water; to
slake; as, to slack lime.

4. To cause to become less eager; to repress; to make slow or less
rapid; to retard; as, to slacken pursuit; to slacken industry.
"Rancor for to slack." Chaucer.
I should be grieved, young prince, to think my presence Unbent your
thoughts, and slackened 'em to arms. Addison.
In this business of growing rich, poor men should slack their pace.
South.
With such delay Well plased, they slack their course. Milton.

5. To cause to become less intense; to mitigate; to abate; to ease.
To respite, or deceive, or slack thy pain Of this ill mansion.
Milton.
Air-slacked lime, lime slacked by exposure to the air, in consequence
of the absorption of carton dioxide and water, by which it is
converted into carbonate of lime and hydrate of lime.

SLACKEN
Slack"en, n. (Metal.)

Defn: A spongy, semivitrifled substance which miners or smelters mix
with the ores of metals to prevent their fusion. [Written also
slakin.]

SLACKLY
Slack"ly, adv.

Defn: In a slack manner. Trench.

SLACKNESS
Slack"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being slack.

SLADE
Slade, n. Etym: [AS. sl.]

1. A little dell or valley; a flat piece of low, moist ground. [Obs.]
Drayton.

2. The sole of a plow.

SLAG
Slag, n. Etym: [Sw. slagg, or LG. slacke, whence G. schlacke;
originally, perhaps, the splinters struck off from the metal by
hammering. See Slay, v. t.]

1. The dross, or recrement, of a metal; also, vitrified cinders.

2. The scoria of a volcano. Slag furnace, or Slag hearth (Metal.), a
furnace, or hearth, for extracting lead from slags or poor ore.
 -- Slag wool, mineral wool. See under Mineral.

SLAGGY
Slag"gy, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to slag; resembling slag; as, slaggy cobalt.

SLAIE
Slaie, n. Etym: [See Sley.]

Defn: A weaver's reed; a sley.

SLAKE
Slake, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Slaking.] Etym:
[OE. slaken to render slack, to slake, AS. sleacian, fr. sleac slack.
See Slack, v. & a.]

1. To allay; to quench; to extinguish; as, to slake thirst. "And
slake the heavenly fire." Spenser.
It could not slake mine ire nor ease my heart. Shak.

2. To mix with water, so that a true chemical combination shall take
place; to slack; as, to slake lime.

SLAKE
Slake, v. i.

1. To go out; to become extinct. "His flame did slake." Sir T.
Browne.

2. To abate; to become less decided. [R.] Shak.

3. To slacken; to become relaxed. "When the body's strongest sinews
slake." [R.] Sir J. Davies.

4. To become mixed with water, so that a true chemical combination
takes place; as, the lime slakes. Slake trough, a trough containing
water in which a blacksmith cools a forging or tool.

SLAKELESS
Slake"less, a.

Defn: Not capable of being slaked.

SLAKIN
Slak"in, n. (Metal.)

Defn: Slacken.

SLAM
Slam, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slammed; p. pr. & vb. n. Slamming.] Etym:
[Of Scand. origin; cf. Icel. slamra, slambra, sl, Norw. slemba,
slemma, dial. Sw. slamma.]

1. To shut with force and a loud noise; to bang; as, he slammed the
door.

2. To put in or on some place with force and loud noise; -- usually
with down; as, to slam a trunk down on the pavement.

3. To strike with some implement with force; hence, to beat or cuff.
[Prov. Eng.]

4. To strike down; to slaughter. [Prov. Eng.]

5. To defeat (opponents at cards) by winning all the tricks of a deal
or a hand. Hoyle. To slam to, to shut or close with a slam. "He
slammed to the door." W. D. Howells.

SLAM
Slam, v. i.

Defn: To come or swing against something, or to shut, with sudden
force so as to produce a shock and noise; as, a door or shutter
slams.

SLAM
Slam, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, slams.

2. The shock and noise produced in slamming.
The slam and the scowl were lost upon Sam. Dickens.

3. (Card Playing)

Defn: Winning all the tricks of a deal.

4. The refuse of alum works. [Prov. Eng.]

SLAM-BANG
Slam"-bang`, adv.

Defn: With great violence; with a slamming or banging noise.
[Colloq.]

SLAMKIN; SLAMMERKIN
Slam"kin, Slam"mer*kin, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schlampe, schlamp, dim.
schlampchen; schlampen to dangle, to be slovenly in one's dress.]

Defn: A slut; a slatternly woman. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SLANDER
Slan"der, n. Etym: [OE. sclandere, OF. esclandre, esclandle,
escandre, F. esclandre, fr. L. scandalum, Gr. skand to spring, leap.
See Scan, and cf. Scandal.]

1. A false tale or report maliciously uttered, tending to injure the
reputation of another; the malicious utterance of defamatory reports;
the dissemination of malicious tales or suggestions to the injury of
another.
Whether we speak evil of a man to his face or behind his back; the
former way, indeed, seems to be the most generous, but yet is a great
fault, and that which we call "reviling;" the latter is more mean and
base, and that which we properly call "slander", or "Backbiting."
Tillotson.
[We] make the careful magistrate The mark of slander. B. Jonson.

2. Disgrace; reproach; dishonor; opprobrium.
Thou slander of thy mother's heavy womb. Shak.

3. (Law)

Defn: Formerly, defamation generally, whether oral or written; in
modern usage, defamation by words spoken; utterance of false,
malicious, and defamatory words, tending to the damage and derogation
of another; calumny. See the Note under Defamation. Burril.

SLANDER
Slan"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slandered; p. pr. & vb. n. Slandering.]

1. To defame; to injure by maliciously uttering a false report; to
tarnish or impair the reputation of by false tales maliciously told
or propagated; to calumniate.
O, do not slander him, for he is kind. Shak.

2. To bring discredit or shame upon by one's acts.
Tax not so bad a voice To slander music any more than once. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To asperse; defame; calumniate; vilify; malign; belie;
scandalize; reproach. See Asperse.

SLANDERER
Slan"der*er, n.

Defn: One who slanders; a defamer; a calumniator. Jer. Taylor.

SLANDEROUS
Slan"der*ous, a.

1. Given or disposed to slander; uttering slander. "Slanderous
tongue." Shak.

2. Embodying or containing slander; calumnious; as, slanderous words,
speeches, or reports.
 -- Slan"der*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Slan"der*ous*ness, n.

SLANG
Slang,

Defn: imp. of Sling. Slung. [Archaic]

SLANG
Slang, n.

Defn: Any long, narrow piece of land; a promontory. [Local, Eng.]
Holland.

SLANG
Slang, n. Etym: [Cf. Sling.]

Defn: A fetter worn on the leg by a convict. [Eng.]

SLANG
Slang, n. Etym: [Said to be of Gypsy origin; but probably from
Scand., and akin to E. sling; cf. Norw. sleng a slinging, an
invention, device, slengja to sling, to cast, slengja kjeften
(literally, to sling the jaw) to use abusive language, to use slang,
slenjeord (ord = word) an insulting word, a new word that has no just
reason for being.]

Defn: Low, vulgar, unauthorized language; a popular but unauthorized
word, phrase, or mode of expression; also, the jargon of some
particular calling or class in society; low popular cant; as, the
slang of the theater, of college, of sailors, etc.

SLANG
Slang, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slanged; p. pr. & vb. n. Slanging.]

Defn: To address with slang or ribaldry; to insult with vulgar
language. [Colloq.]
Every gentleman abused by a cabman or slanged by a bargee was bound
there and then to take off his coat and challenge him to fisticuffs.
London Spectator.

SLANGINESS
Slang"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being slangy.

SLANGOUS
Slan"gous, a.

Defn: Slangy. [R.] John Bee.

SLANG-WHANGER
Slang"-whang`er, n. Etym: [Slang + whang to beat.]

Defn: One who uses abusive slang; a ranting partisan. [Colloq. or
Humorous] W. Irving.

SLANGY
Slang"y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to slang; of the nature of slang; disposed to
use slang. [Written also slangey.]

SLANK
Slank,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Slink.

SLANT
Slant, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slanted; p. pr. & vb. n. Slanting.] Etym:
[OE. slenten to slope, slide; cf. Sw. slinta to slide.]

Defn: To be turned or inclined from a right line or level; to lie
obliquely; to slope.
On the side of younder slanting hill. Dodsley.

SLANT
Slant, v. t.

Defn: To turn from a direct line; to give an oblique or sloping
direction to; as, to slant a line.

SLANT
Slant, n.

1. A slanting direction or plane; a slope; as, it lies on a slant.

2. An oblique reflection or gibe; a sarcastic remark. Slant or wind,
a local variation of the wind from its general direction.

SLANT
Slant, a. Etym: [Cf. dial. Sw. slant. See Slant, v. i.]

Defn: Inclined from a direct line, whether horizontal or
perpendicular; sloping; oblique. "The slant lightning." Milton.

SLANTING
Slant"ing, a.

Defn: Oblique; sloping.
 -- Slant"ing*ly, adv.

SLANTWISE; SLANTLY
Slant"wise`, Slant"ly, adv.

Defn: In an inclined direction; obliquely; slopingly.

SLAP
Slap, n. Etym: [OE. slappe; akin to LG. slappe, G. schlappe; probably
of imitative origin.]

Defn: A blow, esp. one given with the open hand, or with something
broad.

SLAP
Slap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Slapping.]

Defn: To strike with the open hand, or with something broad.

SLAP
Slap, adv. Etym: [Cf. LG. slap, G. schlapp. See Slap, n.]

Defn: With a sudden and violent blow; hence, quickly; instantly;
directly. [Colloq.] "The railroad cars drive slap into the city."
Thackeray.

SLAPDASH
Slap"dash`, adv. Etym: [Slap + dash.]

1. In a bold, careless manner; at random. [Colloq.]

2. With a slap; all at once; slap. [Colloq.] Prior.

SLAPDASH
Slap"dash`, v. t.

Defn: To apply, or apply something to, in a hasty, careless, or rough
manner; to roughcast; as, to slapdash mortar or paint on a wall, or
to slapdash a wall. [Colloq.] Halliwell.

SLAPE
Slape, a. Etym: [Icel. sleipr slippery; akin to E. slip.]

Defn: Slippery; smooth; crafty; hypocritical. [Prov. Eng.] Slape ale,
plain ale, as opposed to medicated or mixed ale. [Prov. Eng.]

SLAPEFACE
Slape"face`, n.

Defn: A soft-spoken, crafty hypocrite. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SLAPJACK
Slap"jack`, n.

Defn: A flat batter cake cooked on a griddle; a flapjack; a
griddlecake. [Local, U.S.]

SLAPPER
Slap"per, n.

1. One who, or that which, slaps.

2. Anything monstrous; a whopper. [Slang] Grose.

SLAPPER; SLAPPING
Slap"per, Slap"ping, a.

Defn: Very large; monstrous; big. [Slang.]

SLASH
Slash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slashed; p. pr. & vb. n. Slashing.] Etym:
[OE. slaschen, of uncertain origin; cf. OF. esclachier to break,
esclechier, esclichier, to break, and E. slate, slice, slit, v. t.]

1. To cut by striking violently and at random; to cut in long slits.

2. To lash; to ply the whip to. [R.] King.

3. To crack or snap, as a whip. [R.] Dr. H. More.

SLASH
Slash, v. i.

Defn: To strike violently and at random, esp. with an edged
instrument; to lay about one indiscriminately with blows; to cut
hastily and carelessly.
Hewing and slashing at their idle shades. Spenser.

SLASH
Slash, n.

1. A long cut; a cut made at random.

2. A large slit in the material of any garment, made to show the
lining through the openings.

3. Etym: [Cf. Slashy.] pl.

Defn: Swampy or wet lands overgrown with bushes. [Local, U.S.]
Bartlett.

SLASHED
Slashed, a.

1. Marked or cut with a slash or slashes; deeply gashed; especially,
having long, narrow openings, as a sleeve or other part of a garment,
to show rich lining or under vesture.
A gray jerkin, with scarlet and slashed sleeves. Sir W. Scott.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Divided into many narrow parts or segments by sharp incisions;
laciniate.

SLASHER
Slash"er, n. (Textile Manuf.)

Defn: A machine for applying size to warp yarns.

SLASH PINE
Slash" pine". (Bot.)

Defn: A kind of pine tree (Pinus Cubensis) found in Southern Florida
and the West Indies; -- so called because it grows in "slashes."

SLASHY
Slash"y, a. Etym: [Cf. Sw. slaska to dabble in water. Cf. Slush.]

Defn: Wet and dirty; slushy. [Prov. Eng.]

SLAT
Slat, n. Etym: [CF. Slot a bar.]

Defn: A thin, narrow strip or bar of wood or metal; as, the slats of
a window blind.

SLAT
Slat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slatted; p. pr. & vb. n. Slatting.] Etym:
[OE. slatten; cf. Icel. sletta to slap, to dab.]

1. To slap; to strike; to beat; to throw down violently. [Prov. Eng.
& Colloq. U.S.]
How did you kill him Slat[t]ed his brains out. Marston.

2. To split; to crack. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

3. To set on; to incite. See 3d Slate. [Prov. Eng.]

SLATCH
Slatch, n. Etym: [See Slack.] (Naut.)
(a) The period of a transitory breeze.
(b) An interval of fair weather.
(c) The loose or slack part of a rope; slack.

SLATE
Slate, n. Etym: [OE. slat, OF. esclat a shiver, splinter, F. eclat,
fr. OF. esclater to shiver, to chip, F. eclater, fr. OHG. sliezen to
tear, slit, split, fr. slizan to slit, G. schleissen. See Slit, v.
t., and cf. Eclat.]

1. (Min.)

Defn: An argillaceous rock which readily splits into thin plates;
argillite; argillaceous schist.

2. Any rock or stone having a slaty structure.

3. A prepared piece of such stone. Especially:
(a) A thin, flat piece, for roofing or covering houses, etc.
(b) A tablet for writing upon.

4. An artificial material, resembling slate, and used for the above
purposes.

5. A thin plate of any material; a flake. [Obs.]

6. (Politics)

Defn: A list of candidates, prepared for nomination or for election;
a list of candidates, or a programme of action, devised beforehand.
[Cant, U.S.] Bartlett. Adhesive slate (Min.), a kind of slate of a
greenish gray color, which absorbs water rapidly, and adheres to the
tongue; whence the name.
 -- Aluminous slate, or Alum slate (Min.), a kind of slate containing
sulphate of alumina, -- used in the manufacture of alum.
 -- Bituminous slate (Min.), a soft species of sectile clay slate,
impregnated with bitumen.
 -- Hornblende slate (Min.), a slaty rock, consisting essentially of
hornblende and feldspar, useful for flagging on account of its
toughness.
 -- Slate ax or axe, a mattock with an ax end, used in shaping slates
for roofs, and making holes in them for the nails.
 -- Slate clay (Geol.), an indurated clay, forming one of the
alternating beds of the coal measures, consisting of an infusible
compound of alumina and silica, and often used for making fire
bricks. Tomlinson.
 -- Slate globe, a globe the surface of which is made of an
artificial slatelike material.
 -- Slate pencil, a pencil of slate, or of soapstone, used for
writing on a slate.
 -- Slate rocks (Min.), rocks which split into thin lamin?, not
necessarily parallel to the stratification; foliated rocks.
 -- Slate spar (Min.), a variety of calcite of silvery white luster
and of a slaty structure.
 -- Transparent slate, a plate of translucent material, as ground
glass, upon which a copy of a picture, placed beneath it, can be made
by tracing.

SLATE
Slate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slated; p. pr. & vb. n. Slating.]

1. To cover with slate, or with a substance resembling slate; as, to
slate a roof; to slate a globe.

2. To register (as on a slate and subject to revision), for an
appointment. [Polit. Cant]

SLATE
Slate, v. t. Etym: [Cf. AS. sl?ting a privilege of hunting.]

Defn: To set a dog upon; to bait; to slat. See 2d Slat, 3. [Prov.
Eng. & Scot.] [Written also slete.] Ray.

SLATE-COLOR
Slate"-col`or.

Defn: A dark bluish gray color.

SLATE-GRAY
Slate"-gray`, a.

Defn: Of a dark gray, like slate.

SLATER
Slat"er, n.

Defn: One who lays slates, or whose occupation is to slate buildings.

SLATER
Slat"er, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any terrestrial isopod crustacean of the genus Porcellio and
allied genera; a sow bug.

SLATING
Slat"ing, n.

1. The act of covering with slate, slates, or a substance resembling
slate; the work of a slater.

2. Slates, collectively; also, material for slating.

SLATT
Slatt, n. Etym: [See Slat a strip of board.]

Defn: A slab of stone used as a veneer for coarse masonry. Knight.

SLATTER
Slat"ter, v. i. Etym: [E. slat to throw or dash about.]

Defn: To be careless, negligent, or aswkward, esp. with regard to
dress and neatness; to be wasteful. Ray.

SLATTERN
Slat"tern, n.

Defn: A woman who is negligent of her dress or house; one who is not
neat and nice.

SLATTERN
Slat"tern, a.

Defn: Resembling a slattern; sluttish; slatterny. "The slattern air."
Gay.

SLATTERN
Slat"tern, v. t.

Defn: To consume carelessly or wastefully; to waste; -- with away.
[R.] Chesterfield.

SLATTERNLINESS
Slat"tern*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being slatternly; slovenliness;
untidiness.

SLATTERNLY
Slat"tern*ly, a.

Defn: Resembling a slattern; sluttish; negligent; dirty.
 -- adv.

Defn: In a slatternly manner.

SLATTERPOUCH
Slat"ter*pouch`, n.

Defn: A dance or game played by boys, requiring active exercise.
[Obs.] Gayton.

SLATTING
Slat"ting,

Defn: Slats, collectively.

SLATTING
Slat"ting, n.

Defn: The violent shaking or flapping of anything hanging loose in
the wind, as of a sail, when being hauled down.

SLATY
Slat"y, a. Etym: [From Slate.]

Defn: Resembling slate; having the nature, appearance, or properties,
of slate; composed of thin parallel plates, capable of being
separated by splitting; as, a slaty color or texture. Slaty cleavage
(Min.), cleavage, as of rocks, into thin leaves or plates, like those
of slate; -- applied especially to those cases in which the planes of
cleavage are not parallel to the planes of stratification. It is now
believed to be caused by the compression which the strata have
undergone.
 -- Slaty gneiss (Min.), a variety of gneiss in which the scales of
mica or crystals of hornblende, which are usually minute, form thin
lamin?, rendering the rock easily cleavable.

SLAUGHTER
Slaugh"ter, n. Etym: [OE. slautir, slaughter, slaghter, Icel. slatr
slain flesh, modified by OE. slaught, slaht, slaughter, fr. AS.
sleaht a stroke, blow; both from the root of E. slay. See Slay, v.
t., and cf. Onslaught.]

Defn: The act of killing. Specifically:
(a) The extensive, violent, bloody, or wanton destruction of life;
carnage.
On war and mutual slaughter bent. Milton.

(b) The act of killing cattle or other beasts for market.

Syn.
 -- Carnage; massacre; butchery; murder; havoc.

SLAUGHTER
Slaugh"ter, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slaughtered; p. pr. & vb. n.
Slaughtering.]

1. To visit with great destruction of life; to kill; to slay in
battle.
Your castle is surprised; your wife and babes Savagely slaughtered.
Shak.

2. To butcher; to kill for the market, as beasts.

SLAUGHTERER
Slaugh"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who slaughters.

SLAUGHTERHOUSE
Slaugh"ter*house`, n.

Defn: A house where beasts are butchered for the market.

SLAUGHTERMAN
Slaugh"ter*man, n.; pl. Slaughtermen (.

Defn: One employed in slaughtering. Shak.

SLAUGHTEROUS
Slaugh"ter*ous, a.

Defn: Destructive; murderous. Shak. M. Arnold.
 -- Slaugh"ter*ous*ly, adv.

SLAV
Slav, n.;pl. Slavs. Etym: [A word originally meaning, intelligible,
and used to contrast the people so called with foreigners who spoke
languages unintelligible to the Slavs; akin to OSlav. slovo a word,
slava fame, Skr. cru to hear. Cf. Loud.] (Ethnol.)

Defn: One of a race of people occupying a large part of Eastern and
Northern Europe, including the Russians, Bulgarians, Roumanians,
Servo-Croats, Slovenes, Poles, Czechs, Wends or Sorbs, Slovaks, etc.
[Written also Slave, and Sclav.]

SLAVE
Slave, n.

Defn: See Slav.

SLAVE
Slave, n. Etym: [Cf. F. esclave, D. slaaf, Dan. slave, sclave, Sw.
slaf, all fr. G. sklave, MHG. also slave, from the national name of
the Slavonians, or Sclavonians (in LL. Slavi or Sclavi), who were
frequently made slaves by the Germans. See Slav.]

1. A person who is held in bondage to another; one who is wholly
subject to the will of another; one who is held as a chattel; one who
has no freedom of action, but whose person and services are wholly
under the control of another.
thou our slave, Our captive, at the public mill our drudge Milton.

2. One who has lost the power of resistance; one who surrenders
himself to any power whatever; as, a slave to passion, to lust, to
strong drink, to ambition.

3. A drudge; one who labors like a slave.

4. An abject person; a wretch. Shak. Slave ant (Zool.), any species
of ants which is captured and enslaved by another species, especially
Formica fusca of Europe and America, which is commonly enslaved by
Formica sanguinea.
 -- Slave catcher, one who attempted to catch and bring back a
fugitive slave to his master.
 -- Slave coast, part of the western coast of Africa to which slaves
were brought to be sold to foreigners.
 -- Slave driver, one who superintends slaves at their work; hence,
figuratively, a cruel taskmaster.
 -- Slave hunt. (a) A search after persons in order to reduce them to
slavery. Barth. (b) A search after fugitive slaves, often conducted
with bloodhounds.
 -- Slave ship, a vessel employed in the slave trade or used for
transporting slaves; a slaver.
 -- Slave trade, the busines of dealing in slaves, especially of
buying them for transportation from their homes to be sold elsewhere.
 -- Slave trader, one who traffics in slaves.

Syn.
 -- Bond servant; bondman; bondslave; captive; henchman; vassal;
dependent; drudge. See Serf.

SLAVE
Slave, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slaved; p. pr. & vb. n. Slaving.]

Defn: To drudge; to toil; to labor as a slave.

SLAVE
Slave, v. t.

Defn: To enslave. Marston.

SLAVEBORN
Slave"born`, a.

Defn: Born in slavery.

SLAVEHOLDER
Slave"hold`er, n.

Defn: One who holds slaves.

SLAVEHOLDING
Slave"hold`ing, a.

Defn: Holding persons in slavery.

SLAVEOCRACY
Slave*oc"ra*cy, n.

Defn: See Slavocracy.

SLAVER
Slav"er, n.

1. A vessel engaged in the slave trade; a slave ship.

2. A person engaged in the purchase and sale of slaves; a slave
merchant, or slave trader.
The slaver's hand was on the latch, He seemed in haste to go.
Longfellow.

SLAVER
Slav"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slavered; p. pr. & vb. n. Slavering.]
Etym: [Cf. Icel. slafra. See Slabber.]

1. To suffer spittle, etc., to run from the mouth.

2. To be besmeared with saliva. Shak.

SLAVER
Slav"er, v. t.

Defn: To smear with saliva issuing from the mouth; to defile with
drivel; to slabber.

SLAVER
Slav"er, n.

Defn: Saliva driveling from the mouth.
Of all mad creatures, if the learned are right, It is the slaver
kills, and not the bite. Pope.

SLAVERER
Slav"er*er, n.

Defn: A driveler; an idiot.

SLAVERING
Slav"er*ing, a.

Defn: Drooling; defiling with saliva.
 -- Slav"er*ing*ly, adv.

SLAVERY
Slav"er*y, n.; pl. Slaveries. Etym: [See 2d Slave.]

1. The condition of a slave; the state of entire subjection of one
person to the will of another.
Disguise thyself as thou wilt, still, slavery, said I, still thou art
a bitter draught! Sterne.
I wish, from my soul, that the legislature of this state [Virginia]
could see the policy of a gradual abolition of slavery. It might
prevent much future mischief. Washington.

2. A condition of subjection or submission characterized by lack of
freedom of action or of will.
The vulgar slaveries rich men submit to. C. Lever.
There is a slavery that no legislation can abolish, -- the slavery of
caste. G. W. Cable.

3. The holding of slaves.

Syn.
 -- Bondage; servitude; inthrallment; enslavement; captivity; bond
service; vassalage.

SLAVEY
Slav"ey, n.

Defn: A maidservant. [Colloq. & Jocose Eng.]

SLAVIC
Slav"ic, a.

Defn: Slavonic.
 -- n.

Defn: The group of allied languages spoken by the Slavs.

SLAVISH
Slav"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to slaves; such as becomes or befits a slave;
servile; excessively laborious; as, a slavish life; a slavish
dependance on the great.
 -- Slav"ish*ly, adv.
 -- Slav"ish*ness, n.

SLAVISM
Slav"ism, n.

Defn: The common feeling and interest of the Slavonic race.

SLAVOCRACY
Slav*oc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Slave + -cracy, as in democracy.]

Defn: The persons or interest formerly representing slavery
politically, or wielding political power for the preservation or
advancement of slavery. [U. S.]

SLAVONIAN; SLAVONIC
Sla*vo"ni*an, Sla*von"ic, a.

1. Of or pertaining to Slavonia, or its inhabitants.

2. Of or pertaining to the Slavs, or their language.

SLAVONIAN
Sla*vo"ni*an, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Slavonia; ethnologically, a Slav.

SLAVOPHIL; SLAVOPHILE
Slav"o*phil, Slav"o*phile, n. Etym: [Slavic + Gr.

Defn: One, not being a Slav, who is interested in the development and
prosperity of that race.

SLAW
Slaw, n. Etym: [D. sla, contr. fr. salade, OD. salaet, salad. See
Salad.]

Defn: Sliced cabbage served as a salad, cooked or uncooked.

SLAW; SLAWEN
Slaw, Slaw"en, obs.

Defn: p. p. of Slee, to slay.
With a sword drawn out he would have slaw himself. Wyclif (Acts xvi.
27.)

SLAY
Slay, v. t. [imp. Slew; p. p. Slain; p. pr. & vb. n. Slaying.] Etym:
[OE. slan, sl, sleen, slee, AS. slean to strike, beat, slay; akin to
OFries. sla, D. slaan, OS. & OHG. slahan, G. schlagen, Icel. sla,
Dan. slaae, Sw. sl, Goth. slahan; perhaps akin to L. lacerare to tear
to pieces, Gr. lacerate. Cf. Slaughter, Sledge a hammer, Sley.]

Defn: To put to death with a weapon, or by violence; hence, to kill;
to put an end to; to destroy.
With this sword then will I slay you both. Chaucer.
I will slay the last of them with the sword. Amos ix. 1.
I'll slay more gazers than the basilisk. Shak.

Syn.
 -- To kill; murder; slaughter; butcher.

SLAYER
Slay"er, n.

Defn: One who slays; a killer; a murderer; a destrroyer of life.

SLAZY
Sla"zy, a.

Defn: See Sleazy.

SLE
Sle, v. t.

Defn: To slay. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLEAVE
Sleave, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. sloif, a knot loop, Sw. slejf, G. schleife
a knot, silding knot, and E. slip, v.i.]
(a) The knotted or entangled part of silk or thread.
(b) Silk not yet twisted; floss; -- called also sleave silk.
Sleep that knits up the ravell'd sleave of care. Shak.

SLEAVE
Sleave, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sleaved; p. pr. & vb. n. Sleaving.]

Defn: To separate, as threads; to divide, as a collection of threads;
to sley; -- a weaver's term.

SLEAVED
Sleaved, a.

Defn: Raw; not spun or wrought; as, sleaved thread or silk.
Holinshed.

SLEAZINESS
Slea"zi*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being sleazy.

SLEAZY
Slea"zy, a. Etym: [Cf. G. schleissig worn out, threadbare, from
schleissen to slit, split, decay, or E. leasy.]

Defn: Wanting firmness of texture or substance; thin; flimsy; as,
sleazy silk or muslin. [Spelt also slazy.]

SLED
Sled, n. Etym: [Akin to D. slede, G. schlitten, OHG. slito, Icel.
sle, Sw. slade, Dan. sl, and E. slide, v. See Slide, and cf. Sledge a
vehicle, Sleigh.]

1. A vehicle on runners, used for conveying loads over the snow or
ice; -- in England called sledge.

2. A small, light vehicle with runners, used, mostly by young
persons, for sliding on snow or ice.

SLED
Sled, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sledded; p. pr. & vb. n. Sledding.]

Defn: To convey or transport on a sled; as, to sled wood or timber.

SLEDDING
Sled"ding, n.

1. The act of transporting or riding on a sled.

2. The state of the snow which admits of the running of sleds; as,
the sledding is good.

SLEDGE
Sledge, n. Etym: [Perhaps from sleds, pl. of sled, confused with
sledge a hammer. See Sled, n.]

1. A strong vehicle with low runners or low wheels; or one without
wheels or runners, made of plank slightly turned up at one end, used
for transporting loads upon the snow, ice, or bare ground; a sled.

2. A hurdle on which, formerly, traitors were drawn to the place of
execution. [Eng.] Sir W. Scott.

3. A sleigh. [Eng.]

4. A game at cards; -- called also old sledge, and all fours.

SLEDGE
Sledge, v. i. & t. [imp. & p. p. Sledged; p. pr. & vb. n. Sledging.]

Defn: To travel or convey in a sledge or sledges. Howitt.

SLEDGE
Sledge, n. Etym: [AS. slecge,from slean to strike, beat. See Slay, v.
t.]

Defn: A large, heavy hammer, usually wielded with both hands; --
called also sledge hammer.
With his heavy sledge he can it beat. Spenser.

SLEE
Slee, v. t. Etym: [See Slay.]

Defn: To slay. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLEEK
Sleek, a. [Compar. Sleeker; superl. Sleekest.] Etym: [OE. slik; akin
to Icel. slikr, and OE. sliken to glide, slide, G. schleichen, OHG.
slihhan, D. slik, slijk, mud, slime, and E. slink. Cf. Slick, Slink.]

1. Having an even, smooth surface; smooth; hence, glossy; as, sleek
hair. Chaucer.
So sleek her skin, so faultless was her make. Dryden.

2. Not rough or harsh.
Those rugged names to our like mouths grow sleek. Milton.

SLEEK
Sleek, adv.

Defn: With ease and dexterity. [Low]

SLEEK
Sleek, n.

Defn: That which makes smooth; varnish. [R.]

SLEEK
Sleek, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sleeked;p. pr. & vb. n. Sleeking.]

Defn: To make even and smooth; to render smooth, soft, and glossy; to
smooth over.
Sleeking her soft alluring locks. Milton.
Gentle, my lord, sleek o'er your rugged looks. Shak.

SLEEKLY
Sleek"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sleek manner; smoothly.

SLEEKNESS
Sleek"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sleek; smoothness and glossiness
of surface.

SLEEKY
Sleek"y, a.

1. Of a sleek, or smooth, and glossy appearance. Thomson.

2. Fawning and deceitful; sly. [Scot.]

SLEEP
Sleep, obs.

Defn: imp. of Sleep. Slept. Chaucer.

SLEEP
Sleep, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slept; p. pr. & vb. n. Sleeping.] Etym:
[OE. slepen, AS. sl; akin to OFries. sl, OS. slapan, D. slapen, OHG.
slafan, G. schlafen, Goth. sl, and G. schlaff slack, loose, and L.
labi to glide, slide, labare to totter. Cf. Lapse.]

1. To take rest by a suspension of the voluntary exercise of the
powers of the body and mind, and an apathy of the organs of sense; to
slumber. Chaucer.
Watching at the head of these that sleep. Milton.

2. Figuratively:
(a) To be careless, inattentive, or uncouncerned; not to be vigilant;
to live thoughtlessly.
We sleep over our happiness. Atterbury.

(b) To be dead; to lie in the grave.
Them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. 1 Thess. iv.
14.

(c) To be, or appear to be, in repose; to be quiet; to be unemployed,
unused, or unagitated; to rest; to lie dormant; as, a question sleeps
for the present; the law sleeps.
How sweet the moonlight sleep upon this bank! Shak.

SLEEP
Sleep, v. t.

1. To be slumbering in; -- followed by a cognate object; as, to sleep
a dreamless sleep. Tennyson.

2. To give sleep to; to furnish with accomodations for sleeping; to
lodge. [R.] Blackw. Mag. To sleep away, to spend in sleep; as, to
sleep away precious time.
 -- To sleep off, to become free from by sleep; as, to sleep off
drunkeness or fatigue.

SLEEP
Sleep, n. Etym: [AS. sl; akin to OFries. sl, OS. slap, D. slaap, OHG.
slaf, G. schlaf, Goth. sl. See Sleep, v. i.]

Defn: A natural and healthy, but temporary and periodical, suspension
of the functions of the organs of sense, as well as of those of the
voluntary and rational soul; that state of the animal in which there
is a lessened acuteness of sensory perception, a confusion of ideas,
and a loss of mental control, followed by a more or less unconscious
state. "A man that waketh of his sleep." Chaucer.
O sleep, thou ape of death. Shak.

Note: Sleep is attended by a relaxation of the muscles, and the
absence of voluntary activity for any rational objects or purpose.
The pulse is slower, the respiratory movements fewer in number but
more profound, and there is less blood in the cerebral vessels. It is
susceptible of greater or less intensity or completeness in its
control of the powers. Sleep of plants (Bot.), a state of plants,
usually at night, when their leaflets approach each other, and the
flowers close and droop, or are covered by the folded leaves.

Syn.
 -- Slumber; repose; rest; nap; doze; drowse.

SLEEP-AT-NOON
Sleep"-at-noon", n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant (Tragopogon pratensis) which closes its flowers at
midday; a kind of goat's beard. Dr. Prior.

SLEEP-CHARGED
Sleep"-charged`, a.

Defn: Heavy with sleep.

SLEEPER
Sleep"er, n.

1. One who sleeps; a slumberer; hence, a drone, or lazy person.

2. That which lies dormant, as a law. [Obs.] Bacon.

3. A sleeping car. [Colloq. U.S.]

4. (Zool.)

Defn: An animal that hibernates, as the bear.

5. (Zool.)
(a) A large fresh-water gobioid fish (Eleotris dormatrix).
(b) A nurse shark. See under Nurse.

SLEEPER
Sleep"er, n. Etym: [Cf. Norw. sleip a sleeper (a timber), as adj.,
slippery, smooth. See Slape.]

Defn: Something lying in a reclining posture or position.
Specifically: --
(a) One of the pieces of timber, stone, or iron, on or near the level
of the ground, for the support of some superstructure, to steady
framework, to keep in place the rails of a railway, etc.; a
stringpiece.
(b) One of the joists, or roughly shaped timbers, laid directly upon
the ground, to receive the flooring of the ground story. [U.S.]
(c) (Naut.) One of the knees which connect the transoms to the after
timbers on the ship's quarter.
(d) (Naut. ) The lowest, or bottom, tier of casks.

SLEEPFUL
Sleep"ful, a.

Defn: Strongly inclined to sleep; very sleepy.
 -- Sleep"ful*ness, n.

SLEEPILY
Sleep"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sleepy manner; drowsily.

SLEEPINESS
Sleep"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sleepy.

SLEEPING
Sleep"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Sleep. Sleeping car, a railway car or carrriage, arranged
with apartments and berths for sleeping.
 -- Sleeping partner (Com.), a dormant partner. See under Dormant.
 -- Sleeping table (Mining), a stationary inclined platform on which
pulverized ore is washed; a kind of buddle.

SLEEPISH
Sleep"ish, a.

Defn: Disposed to sleep; sleepy; drowsy.
Your sleepish, and more than sleepish, security. Ford.

SLEEPLESS
Sleep"less, a.

1. Having no sleep; wakeful.

2. Having no rest; perpetually agitated. "Biscay's sleepless bay."
Byron.
 -- Sleep"less*ly, adv.
 -- Sleep"less*ness, n.

SLEEPMARKEN
Sleep"mark`en, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See 1st Hag, 4.

SLEEPWAKER
Sleep"wak`er, n.

Defn: On in a state of magnetic or mesmeric sleep.

SLEEPWAKING
Sleep"wak`ing, n.

Defn: The state of one mesmerized, or in a partial and morbid sleep.

SLEEPWALKER
Sleep"walk`er, n.

Defn: One who walks in his sleep; a somnambulist.

SLEEPWALKING
Sleep"walk`ing, n.

Defn: Walking in one's sleep.

SLEEPY
Sleep"y, a. [Compar. Sleepier; superl. Sleepiest.] Etym: [AS. sl. See
Sleep, n.]

1. Drowsy; inclined to, or overcome by, sleep. Shak.
She waked her sleepy crew. Dryden.

2. Tending to induce sleep; soporiferous; somniferous; as, a sleepy
drink or potion. Chaucer.

3. Dull; lazy; heavy; sluggish. Shak.
'Tis not sleepy business; But must be looked to speedily and
strongly. Shak.

4. Characterized by an absence of watchfulness; as, sleepy security.
Sleepy duck (Zool.), the ruddy duck.

SLEEPYHEAD
Sleep"y*head`, n.

1. A sleepy person.
To bed, to bed, says Sleepyhead. Mother Goose.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The ruddy duck.

SLEER
Sle"er, n.

Defn: A slayer. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLEET
Sleet, n. (Gun.)

Defn: The part of a mortar extending from the chamber to the
trunnions.

SLEET
Sleet, n. Etym: [OE. sleet; akin to MHG. sl, sl hailstone, G.
schlosse; of uncertain origin.]

Defn: Hail or snow, mingled with rain, usually falling, or driven by
the wind, in fine particles.

SLEET
Sleet, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sleeted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sleeting.]

Defn: To snow or hail with a mixture of rain.

SLEETCH
Sleetch, n. Etym: [Cf. Slush, Slutch.]

Defn: Mud or slime, such as that at the bottom of rivers. [Scot.]

SLEETINESS
Sleet"i*ness, n.

Defn: The state of being sleety.

SLEETY
Sleet"y, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sleet; characterized by sleet; as, a sleety
storm; sleety weather.

SLEEVE
Sleeve, n.

Defn: See Sleave, untwisted thread.

SLEEVE
Sleeve, n. Etym: [OE. sleeve, sleve, AS. sl, sl; akin to sl to put
on, to clothe; cf. OD. sloove the turning up of anything, sloven to
turn up one's sleeves, sleve a sleeve, G. schlaube a husk, pod.]

1. The part of a garment which covers the arm; as, the sleeve of a
coat or a gown. Chaucer.

2. A narrow channel of water. [R.]
The Celtic Sea, called oftentimes the Sleeve. Drayton.

3. (Mach.)
(a) A tubular part made to cover, sustain, or steady another part, or
to form a connection between two parts.
(b) A long bushing or thimble, as in the nave of a wheel.
(c) A short piece of pipe used for covering a joint, or forming a
joint between the ends of two other pipes. Sleeve button, a
detachable button to fasten the wristband or cuff.
 -- Sleeve links, two bars or buttons linked together, and used to
fasten a cuff or wristband.
 -- To laugh in the sleeve, to laugh privately or unperceived,
especially while apparently preserving a grave or serious demeanor
toward the person or persons laughed at; that is, perhaps,
originally, by hiding the face in the wide sleeves of former times.
 -- To pin, or hang, on the sleeve of, to be, or make, dependent
upon.

SLEEVE
Sleeve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sleeved; p. pr. & vb. n. Sleeving.]

Defn: To furnish with sleeves; to put sleeves into; as, to sleeve a
coat.

SLEEVED
Sleeved, a.

Defn: Having sleeves; furnished with sleeves; -- often in
composition; as, long-sleeved.

SLEEVEFISH
Sleeve"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A squid.

SLEEVEHAND
Sleeve"hand`, n.

Defn: The part of a sleeve nearest the hand; a cuff or wristband.
[Obs.] Shak.

SLEEVELESS
Sleeve"less, a. Etym: [AS. sl.]

1. Having no sleeves.

2. Wanting a cover, pretext, or palliation; unreasonable; profitless;
bootless; useless. [Obs.] Shak.
The vexation of a sleeveless errand. Bp. Warburton.

SLEID
Sleid, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sleided; p. pr. & vb. n. Sleiding.] Etym:
[See Sley.]

Defn: To sley, or prepare for use in the weaver's sley, or slaie.
Shak.

SLEIGH
Sleigh, a.

Defn: Sly. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLEIGH
Sleigh, n. Etym: [Cf. D. & LG. slede, slee, Icel. sle. See Sled.]

Defn: A vehicle moved on runners, and used for transporting persons
or goods on snow or ice; -- in England commonly called a sledge.
Sleigh bell, a small bell attached either to a horse when drawing a
slegh, or to the sleigh itself; especially a globular bell with a
loose ball which plays inside instead of a clapper.

SLEIGHING
Sleigh"ing, n.

1. The act of riding in a sleigh.

2. The state of the snow or ice which admits of running sleighs.

SLEIGHT
Sleight, n. Etym: [OE. sleighte, sleihte, sleithe, Icel. sl (for sl)
slyness, cunning, fr. sl (for sl) sly, cunning. See Sly.]

1. Cunning; craft; artful practice. [Obs.] "His sleight and his
covin." Chaucer.

2. An artful trick; sly artifice; a feat so dexterous that the manner
of performance escapes observation.
The world hath many subtle sleights. Latimer.

3. Dexterous practice; dexterity; skill. Chaucer. "The juggler's
sleight." Hudibras. Sleight of hand, legerdemain; prestidigitation.

SLEIGHTFUL
Sleight"ful, a.

Defn: Cunning; dexterous. [Obs.]

SLEIGHTLY
Sleight"ly, adv.

Defn: Cunningly. [Obs.] Huloet.

SLEIGHTY
Sleight"y, a.

Defn: Cunning; sly. [Obs.] Huloet.

SLENDER
Slen"der, a. [Compar. Slenderer; superl. Slenderest.] Etym: [OE.
slendre, sclendre, fr. OD. slinder thin, slender, perhaps through a
French form; cf. OD. slinderen, slidderen, to creep; perh. akin to E.
slide.]

1. Small or narrow in proportion to the length or the height; not
thick; slim; as, a slender stem or stalk of a plant. "A slender,
choleric man." Chaucer.
She, as a veil down to the slender waist, Her unadorned golden
tresses wore. Milton.

2. Weak; feeble; not strong; slight; as, slender hope; a slender
constitution.
Mighty hearts are held in slender chains. Pope.
They have inferred much from slender premises. J. H. Newman.
The slender utterance of the consonants. J. Byrne.

3. Moderate; trivial; inconsiderable; slight; as, a man of slender
intelligence.
A slender degree of patience will enable him to enjoy both the humor
and the pathos. Sir W. Scott.

4. Small; inadequate; meager; pitiful; as, slender means of support;
a slender pittance.
Frequent begging makes slender alms. Fuller.

5. Spare; abstemious; frugal; as, a slender diet.
The good Ostorius often deigned To grace my slender table with his
presence. Philips.

6. (Phon.)

Defn: Uttered with a thin tone; -- the opposite of broad; as, the
slender vowels long e and i.
 -- Slen"der*ly, adv.
 -- Slen"der*ness, n.

SLENT
Slent, n. & v.

Defn: See Slant. [Obs.]

SLEP
Slep, obs.

Defn: imp. of Sleep. Slept. Chaucer.

SLEPEZ
Sle*pez", n. Etym: [Russ. sliepets'.] (Zool.)

Defn: A burrowing rodent (Spalax typhlus), native of Russia and Asia
Minor. It has the general appearance of a mole, and is destitute of
eyes. Called also mole rat.

SLEPT
Slept,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Sleep.

SLEUTH
Sleuth, n. Etym: [Icel. sloedh. See Slot a track.]

Defn: The track of man or beast as followed by the scent. [Scot.]
Halliwell.

SLEUTHHOUND
Sleuth"hound`, n. Etym: [See Sleuth, and cf. Slothound.] (Zool.)

Defn: A hound that tracks animals by the scent; specifically, a
bloodhound. [Spelt variously slouthhound, sluthhound, etc.]

SLEW
Slew,

Defn: imp. of Slay.

SLEW
Slew, v. t.

Defn: See Slue.

SLEWED
Slewed, a.

Defn: Somewhat drunk. [Slang]

SLEWTH
Slewth, n.

Defn: Sloth; idleness. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLEY
Sley, n. Etym: [AS. sl, fr. slean to strike. See Slay, v. t.]

1. A weaver's reed. [Spelt also slaie.]

2. A guideway in a knitting machine. Knight.

SLEY
Sley, v. t.

Defn: To separate or part the threads of, and arrange them in a reed;
-- a term used by weavers. See Sleave, and Sleid.

SLIBBER
Slib"ber, a.

Defn: Slippery. [Obs.] Holland.

SLICE
Slice, n. Etym: [OE. slice, sclice, OF. esclice, from esclicier,
esclichier, to break to pieces, of German origin; cf. OHG. slizan to
split, slit, tear, G. schleissen to slit. See Slit, v. t.]

1. A thin, broad piece cut off; as, a slice of bacon; a slice of
cheese; a slice of bread.

2. That which is thin and broad, like a slice. Specifically:
(a) A broad, thin piece of plaster.
(b) A salver, platter, or tray. [Obs.]
(c) A knife with a thin, broad blade for taking up or serving fish;
also, a spatula for spreading anything, as paint or ink.
(d) A plate of iron with a handle, forming a kind of chisel, or a
spadelike implement, variously proportioned, and used for various
purposes, as for stripping the planking from a vessel's side, for
cutting blubber from a whale, or for stirring a fire of coals; a
slice bar; a peel; a fire shovel. [Cant]
(e) (Shipbuilding) One of the wedges by which the cradle and the ship
are lifted clear of the building blocks to prepare for launching.
(f) (Printing) A removable sliding bottom to galley. Slice bar, a
kind of fire iron resembling a poker, with a broad, flat end, for
stirring a fire of coals, and clearing it and the grate bars from
clinkers, ashes, etc.; a slice.

SLICE
Slice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sliced; p. pr. & vb. n. Slicing.]

1. To cut into thin pieces, or to cut off a thin, broad piece from.

2. To cut into parts; to divide.

3. To clear by means of a slice bar, as a fire or the grate bars of a
furnace.

SLICER
Sli"cer, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, slices; specifically, the circular saw
of the lapidary.

SLICH; SLICK
Slich, Slick, n. (Metal.)

Defn: See Schlich.

SLICK
Slick, a. Etym: [See Sleek.]

Defn: Sleek; smooth. "Both slick and dainty." Chapman.

SLICK
Slick, v. t.

Defn: To make sleek or smoth. "Slicked all with sweet oil." Chapman.

SLICK
Slick, n. (Joinery)

Defn: A wide paring chisel.

SLICKEN
Slick"en, a.

Defn: Sleek; smooth. [Prov. Eng.]

SLICKENS
Slick"ens, n. Etym: [Cf. Slick, n.] (Mining)

Defn: The pulverized matter from a quartz mill, or the lighter soil
of hydraulic mines. [Local, U. S.]

SLICKENSIDES
Slick"en*sides`, n.

1. The smooth, striated, or partially polished surfaces of a fissure
or seam, supposed to have been produced by the sliding of one surface
on another.

2. A variety of galena found in Derbyshire, England.

SLICKER
Slick"er, n.

Defn: That which makes smooth or sleek. Specifically:
(a) A kind of burnisher for leather.
(b) (Founding) A curved tool for smoothing the surfaces of a mold
after the withdrawal of the pattern.

SLICKER
Slick"er, n.

Defn: A waterproof coat. [Western U.S.]

SLICKING
Slick"ing, n.

1. The act or process of smoothing.

2. pl. (Min.)

Defn: Narrow veins of ore.

SLICKNESS
Slick"ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being slick; smoothness; sleekness.

SLID
Slid,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Slide.

SLIDDEN
Slid"den,

Defn: p. p. of Slide.

SLIDDER
Slid"der, v. t. Etym: [AS. sliderian. See Slide, v. t.]

Defn: To slide with interruption. [Obs.] Dryden.

SLIDDER; SLIDDERLY; SLIDDERY
Slid"der, Slid"der*ly, Slid"der*y, a. Etym: [AS. slidor. See Slide,
v. t.]

Defn: Slippery. [Obs.]
To a drunk man the way is slidder. Chaucer.

SLIDE
Slide, v. t. [imp. Slid; p. p. Slidden, Slid; p. pr. & vb. n.
Slidding.] Etym: [OE. sliden, AS. slidan; akin to MHG. sliten, also
to AS. slidor slippery, E. sled, Lith. slidus slippery. Cf. Sled.]

1. To move along the surface of any body by slipping, or without
walking or rolling; to slip; to glide; as, snow slides down the
mountain's side.

2. Especially, to move over snow or ice with a smooth, uninterrupted
motion, as on a sled moving by the force of gravity, or on the feet.
They bathe in summer, and in winter slide. Waller.

3. To pass inadvertently.
Beware thou slide not by it. Ecclus. xxviii. 26.

4. To pass along smoothly or unobservedly; to move gently onward
without friction or hindrance; as, a ship or boat slides through the
water.
Ages shall slide away without perceiving. Dryden.
Parts answering parts shall slide into a whole. Pope.

5. To slip when walking or standing; to fall.
Their foot shall slide in due time. Deut. xxxii. 35.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: To pass from one note to another with no perceptible cassation
of sound.

7. To pass out of one's thought as not being of any consequence.
[Obs. or Colloq.]
With good hope let he sorrow slide. Chaucer.
With a calm carelessness letting everything slide. Sir P. Sidney.

SLIDE
Slide, v. t.

1. To cause to slide; to thrust along; as, to slide one piece of
timber along another.

2. To pass or put imperceptibly; to slip; as, to slide in a word to
vary the sense of a question.

SLIDE
Slide, n. Etym: [AS. slide.]

1. The act of sliding; as, a slide on the ice.

2. Smooth, even passage or progress.
A better slide into their business. Bacon.

3. That on which anything moves by sliding. Specifically:
(a) An inclined plane on which heavy bodies slide by the force of
gravity, esp. one constructed on a mountain side for conveying logs
by sliding them down.
(b) A surface of ice or snow on which children slide for amusement.

4. That which operates by sliding. Specifically:
(a) A cover which opens or closes an aperture by sliding over it.
(b) (Mach.) A moving piece which is guided by a part or parts along
which it slides.
(c) A clasp or brooch for a belt, or the like.

5. A plate or slip of glass on which is a picture or delineation to
be exhibited by means of a magic lantern, stereopticon, or the like;
a plate on which is an object to be examined with a microscope.

6. The descent of a mass of earth, rock, or snow down a hill or
mountain side; as, a land slide, or a snow slide; also, the track of
bare rock left by a land slide.

7. (Geol.)

Defn: A small dislocation in beds of rock along a line of fissure.
Dana.

8. (Mus.)
(a) A grace consisting of two or more small notes moving by conjoint
degrees, and leading to a principal note either above or below.
(b) An apparatus in the trumpet and trombone by which the sounding
tube is lengthened and shortened so as to produce the tones between
the fundamental and its harmonics.

9. (Phonetics)

Defn: A sound which, by a gradual change in the position of the vocal
organs, passes imperceptibly into another sound.

10. (Steam Engine)
(a) Same as Guide bar, under Guide.
(b) A slide valve. Slide box (Steam Engine), a steam chest. See under
Steam.
 -- Slide lathe, an engine lathe. See under Lathe.
 -- Slide rail, a transfer table. See under Transfer.
 -- Slide rest (Turning lathes), a contrivance for holding, moving,
and guiding, the cutting tool, made to slide on ways or guides by
screws or otherwise, and having compound motion.
 -- Slide rule, a mathematical instrument consisting of two parts,
one of which slides upon the other, for the mechanical performance of
addition and subtraction, and, by means of logarithmic scales, of
multiplication and division.
 -- Slide valve. (a) Any valve which opens and closes a passageway by
sliding over a port. (b) A particular kind of sliding valve, often
used in steam engines for admitting steam to the piston and releasing
it, alternately, having a cuplike cavity in its face, through which
the exhaust steam passes. It is situated in the steam chest, and
moved by the valve gear. It is sometimes called a D valve, -- a name
which is also applied to a semicylindrical pipe used as a sliding
valve. In the illustration, a is the cylinder of a steam engine, in
which plays the piston p; b the steam chest, receiving its supply
from the pipe i, and containing the slide valve s, which is shown as
admitting steam to one end of the cylinder through the port e, and
opening communication between the exhaust passage f and the port c,
for the release of steam from the opposite end of the cylinder.

SLIDEGROAT
Slide"groat, n.

Defn: The game of shovelboard. [Obs.]

SLIDER
Slid"er, a.

Defn: See Slidder. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLIDER
Slid"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, slides; especially, a sliding part of an
instrument or machine.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The red-bellied terrapin (Pseudemys rugosa). [Local, U. S. ]
Slider pump, a form of rotary pump.

SLIDEWAY
Slide"way`, n.

Defn: A way along which something slides.

SLIDING
Slid"ing, a.

1. That slides or slips; gliding; moving smoothly.

2. Slippery; elusory. [Obs.]
That sliding science hath me made so bare. Chaucer.
Sliding friction (Mech.), the resistance one body meets with in
sliding along the surface of another, as distinguished from rolling
friction.
 -- Sliding gunter (Naut.), a topmast arranged with metallic fittings
so as to be hoisted and lowered by means of halyards.
 -- Sliding keel (Naut), a movable keel, similar to a centeboard.
 -- Sliding pair. (Mech.) See the Note under Pair, n., 7.
 -- Sliding rule. Same as Slide rule, under Slide, n.
 -- Sliding scale. (a) A scale for raising or lowering imposts in
proportion to the fall or rise of prices. (b) A variable scale of
wages or of prices. (c) A slide rule.
 -- Sliding ways (Naut.), the timber guides used in launching a
vessel.

SLIDOMETER
Sli*dom"e*ter, n. Etym: [Slide + -meter.]

Defn: An instrument for indicating and recording shocks to railway
cars occasioned by sudden stopping.

SLIGHT
Slight, n.

Defn: Sleight. Spenser.

SLIGHT
Slight, v. t. Etym: [Cf. D. slechten to level, to demolish.]

1. To overthrow; to demolish. [Obs.] Clarendon.

2. To make even or level. [Obs.] Hexham.

3. To throw heedlessly. [Obs.]
The rogue slighted me into the river. Shak.

SLIGHT
Slight, a. [Compar. Slighter; superl. Slightest.] Etym: [OE. sli,
sleght, probably from OD. slicht, slecht, simple, plain, D. slecht;
akin to OFries. sliucht, G. schlecht, schlicht, OHG. sleht smooth,
simple, Icel. sl smooth, Sw. slat, Goth. slaihts; or uncertain
origin.]

1. Not decidedly marked; not forcible; inconsiderable; unimportant;
insignificant; not severe; weak; gentle; -- applied in a great
variety of circumstances; as, a slight (i. e., feeble) effort; a
slight (i. e., perishable) structure; a slight (i. e., not deep)
impression; a slight (i. e., not convincing) argument; a slight (i.
e., not thorough) examination; slight (i. e., not severe) pain, and
the like. "At one slight bound." Milton.
Slight is the subject, but not so the praise. Pope.
Some firmly embrace doctrines upon slight grounds. Locke.

2. Not stout or heavy; slender.
His own figure, which was formerly so slight. Sir W. Scott.

3. Foolish; silly; weak in intellect. Hudibras.

SLIGHT
Slight, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slighted; p. pr. & vb. n. Slighting.]

Defn: To disregard, as of little value and unworthy of notice; to
make light of; as, to slight the divine commands. Milton.
The wretch who slights the bounty of the skies. Cowper.
To slight off, to treat slightingly; to drive off; to remove. [R.] --
To slight over, to run over in haste; to perform superficially; to
treat carelessly; as, to slight over a theme. "They will but slight
it over." Bacon.

Syn.
 -- To neglect; disregard; disdain; scorn.
 -- Slight, Neglect. To slight is stronger than to neglect. We may
neglect a duty or person from inconsiderateness, or from being over-
occupied in other concerns. To slight is always a positive and
intentional act, resulting from feelings of dislike or contempt. We
ought to put a kind construction on what appears neglect on the part
of a friend; but when he slights us, it is obvious that he is our
friend no longer.
Beware . . . lest the like befall . . . If they transgress and slight
that sole command. Milton.
This my long-sufferance, and my day of grace, Those who neglect and
scorn shall never taste. Milton.

SLIGHT
Slight, n.

Defn: The act of slighting; the manifestation of a moderate degree of
contempt, as by neglect or oversight; neglect; indignity.

Syn.
 -- Neglect; disregard; inattention; contempt; disdain; scorn;
disgrace; indignity; disparagement.

SLIGHT
Slight, adv.

Defn: Slightly. [Obs. or Poetic]
Think not so slight of glory. Milton.

SLIGHTEN
Slight"en, v. t.

Defn: To slight. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SLIGHTER
Slight"er, n.

Defn: One who slights.

SLIGHTFUL
Slight"ful, a.

Defn: See Sleightful. [Obs.]

SLIGHTING
Slight"ing, a.

Defn: Characterized by neglect or disregard.

SLIGHTINGLY
Slight"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a slighting manner.

SLIGHTLY
Slight"ly, adv.

1. In a slight manner.

2. Slightingly; negligently. [Obs.] Shak.

SLIGHTNESS
Slight"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being slight; slenderness; feebleness;
superficiality; also, formerly, negligence; indifference; disregard.

SLIGHTY
Slight"y, a.

Defn: Slight. [Obs.] Echard.

SLIK
Slik, a. Etym: [See Such.]

Defn: Such. [Obs. or Scot.]

Note: Used by Chaucer as of the Northern dialect.

SLIKENSIDES
Slik"en*sides`, n.

Defn: Same as Slickensides.

SLILY
Sli"ly, adv.

Defn: See Slyly. South.

SLIM
Slim, a. [Compar. Slimmer; superl. Slimmest.] Etym: [Formerly, bad,
worthless, weak, slight, awry, fr. D. slim; akin to G. schlimm, MHG.
slimp oblique, awry; of uncertain origin. The meaning of the English
word seems to have been influenced by slender.]

1. Worthless; bad. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

2. Weak; slight; unsubstantial; poor; as, a slim argument. "That was
a slim excuse." Barrow.

3. Of small diameter or thickness in proportion to the height or
length; slender; as, a slim person; a slim tree. Grose.

SLIME
Slime, n. Etym: [OE. slim, AS. slim; akin to D. slijm, G. schleim,
MHG. slimen to make smooth, Icel. slim slime, Dan. sliim; cf. L.
limare to file, polish, levis smooth, Gr. limus mud.]

1. Soft, moist earth or clay, having an adhesive quality; viscous
mud.
As it [Nilus] ebbs, the seedsman Upon the slime and ooze scatters his
grain. Shak.

2. Any mucilaginous substance; any substance of a dirty nature, that
is moist, soft, and adhesive.

3. (Script.)

Defn: Bitumen. [Archaic]
Slime had they for mortar. Gen. xi. 3.

4. pl. (Mining)

Defn: Mud containing metallic ore, obtained in the preparatory
dressing. Pryce.

5. (Physiol.)

Defn: A mucuslike substance which exudes from the bodies of certain
animals. Goldsmith. Slime eel. (Zool.) See 1st Hag, 4.
 -- Slime pit, a pit for the collection of slime or bitumen.

SLIME
Slime, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slimed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sliming.]

Defn: To smear with slime. Tennyson.

SLIMILY
Slim"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a slimy manner.

SLIMINESS
Slim"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being slimy.

SLIMLY
Slim"ly, adv.

Defn: In a state of slimness; in a slim manner; slenderly.

SLIMNESS
Slim"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being slim.

SLIMSY
Slim"sy, a.

Defn: Flimsy; frail. [Colloq. U.S.]

SLIMY
Slim"y, a. [Compar. Slimier; superl. Slimiest.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to slime; resembling slime; of the nature of
slime; viscous; glutinous; also, covered or daubed with slime;
yielding, or abounding in, slime.
Slimy things did crawl with legs Upon the slimy sea. Coleridge.

SLINESS
Sli"ness, n.

Defn: See Slyness.

SLING
Sling, n. Etym: [OE. slinge; akin to OD. slinge, D. slinger, OHG.
slinga; cf. OF. eslingue, of German origin. See Sling, v. t.]

1. An instrument for throwing stones or other missiles, consisting of
a short strap with two strings fastened to its ends, or with a string
fastened to one end and a light stick to the other. The missile being
lodged in a hole in the strap, the ends of the string are taken in
the hand, and the whole whirled rapidly round until, by loosing one
end, the missile is let fly with centrifugal force.

2. The act or motion of hurling as with a sling; a throw;
figuratively, a stroke.
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. Shak.
At one sling Of thy victorius arm, well-pleasing Son. Milton.

3. A contrivance for sustaining anything by suspension; as:
(a) A kind of hanging bandage put around the neck, in which a wounded
arm or hand is supported.
(b) A loop of rope, or a rope or chain with hooks, for suspending a
barrel, bale, or other heavy object, in hoisting or lowering.
(c) A strap attached to a firearm, for suspending it from the
shoulder.
(d) (Naut.) A band of rope or iron for securing a yard to a mast; --
chiefly in the plural. Sling cart, a kind of cart used to transport
cannon and their carriages, large stones, machines, etc., the objects
transported being slung, or suspended by a chain attached to the
axletree.
 -- Sling dog, one of a pair of iron hooks used as part of a sling.
See def. 3 (b) above.

SLING
Sling, v. t. [imp. Slung, Archaic Slang (; p. p. Slung; p. pr. & vb.
n. Slinging.] Etym: [AS. slingan; akin to D. slingeren, G. schlingen,
to wind, to twist, to creep, OHG. slingan to wind, to twist, to move
to and fro, Icel. slyngva, slongva, to sling, Sw. slunga, Dan.
slynge, Lith. slinkti to creep.]

1. To throw with a sling. "Every one could sling stones at an
hairbreadth, and not miss." Judg. xx. 16.

2. To throw; to hurl; to cast. Addison.

3. To hang so as to swing; as, to sling a pack.

4. (Naut)

Defn: To pass a rope round, as a cask, gun, etc., preparatory to
attaching a hoisting or lowering tackle.

SLING
Sling, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schlingen to swallow.]

Defn: A drink composed of spirit (usually gin) and water sweetened.
sling.

SLINGER
Sling"er, n.

Defn: One who slings, or uses a sling.

SLINK
Slink, v. t. [imp. Slunk, Archaic Slank (; p. p. Slunk; p. pr. & vb.
n. Slinking.] Etym: [AS. slincan; probably akin to G. schleichen, E.
sleek. See Sleek, a.]

1. To creep away meanly; to steal away; to sneak. "To slink away and
hide." Tale of Beryn.
Back to the thicket slunk The guilty serpent. Milton.
There were some few who slank obliquely from them as they passed.
Landor.

2. To miscarry; -- said of female beasts.

SLINK
Slink, v. t.

Defn: To cast prematurely; -- said of female beasts; as, a cow that
slinks her calf.

SLINK
Slink, a.

1. Produced prematurely; as, a slink calf.

2. Thin; lean. [Scot.]

SLINK
Slink, n.

1. The young of a beast brought forth prematurely, esp. a calf
brought forth before its time.

2. A thievish fellow; a sneak. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SLINKY
Slink"y, a.

Defn: Thin; lank. [Prov. Eng. & U. S.]

SLIP
Slip, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Slipping.] Etym:
[OE. slippen; akin to LG. & D. slippen, MHG. slipfen (cf. Dan.
slippe, Sw. slippa, Icel. sleppa), and fr. OE. slipen, AS. slipan (in
comp.), akin to G. schleifen to slide, glide, drag, whet, OHG. slifan
to slide, glide, make smooth, Icel. slipa to whet; cf. also AS. sl,
Goth. sliupan, OS. slopian, OHG. sliofan, G. schliefen, schl, which
seem to come from a somewhat different root form. Cf. Slope, n.]

1. To move along the surface of a thing without bounding, rolling, or
stepping; to slide; to glide.

2. To slide; to lose one's footing or one's hold; not to tread
firmly; as, it is necessary to walk carefully lest the foot should
slip.

3. To move or fly (out of place); to shoot; -- often with out, off,
etc.; as, a bone may slip out of its place.

4. To depart, withdraw, enter, appear, intrude, or escape as if by
sliding; to go or come in a quiet, furtive manner; as, some errors
slipped into the work.
Thus one tradesman slips away, To give his partner fairer play.
Prior.
Thrice the flitting shadow slipped away. Dryden.

5. To err; to fall into error or fault.
There is one that slippeth in his speech, but not from his heart.
Ecclus. xix. 16.
To let slip, to loose from the slip or noose, as a hound; to allow to
escape.
Cry, "Havoc," and let slip the dogs of war. Shak.

SLIP
Slip, v. t.

1. To cause to move smoothly and quickly; to slide; to convey gently
or secretly.
He tried to slip a powder into her drink. Arbuthnot.

2. To omit; to loose by negligence.
And slip no advantage That my secure you. B. Jonson.

3. To cut slips from; to cut; to take off; to make a slip or slips
of; as, to slip a piece of cloth or paper.
The branches also may be slipped and planted. Mortimer.

4. To let loose in pursuit of game, as a greyhound.
Lucento slipped me like his greyhound. Shak.

5. To cause to slip or slide off, or out of place; as, a horse slips
his bridle; a dog slips his collar.

6. To bring forth (young) prematurely; to slink. To slip a cable.
(Naut.) See under Cable.
 -- To slip off, to take off quickly; as, to slip off a coat.
 -- To slip on, to put on in haste or loosely; as, to slip on a gown
or coat.

SLIP
Slip, n. Etym: [AS. slipe, slip.]

1. The act of slipping; as, a slip on the ice.

2. An unintentional error or fault; a false step.
This good man's slip mended his pace to martyrdom. Fuller.

3. A twig separated from the main stock; a cutting; a scion; hence, a
descendant; as, a slip from a vine.
A native slip to us from foreign seeds. Shak.
The girlish slip of a Sicilian bride. R. Browning.

4. A slender piece; a strip; as, a slip of paper.
Moonlit slips of silver cloud. Tennyson.
A thin slip of a girl, like a new moon Sure to be rounded into beauty
soon. Longfellow.

5. A leash or string by which a dog is held; -- so called from its
being made in such a manner as to slip, or become loose, by
relaxation of the hand.
We stalked over the extensive plains with Killbuck and Lena in the
slips, in search of deer. Sir S. Baker.

6. An escape; a secret or unexpected desertion; as, to give one the
slip. Shak.

7. (Print.)

Defn: A portion of the columns of a newspaper or other work struck
off by itself; a proof from a column of type when set up and in the
galley.

8. Any covering easily slipped on. Specifically:
(a) A loose garment worn by a woman.
(b) A child's pinafore.
(c) An outside covering or case; as, a pillow slip.
(d) The slip or sheath of a sword, and the like. [R.]

9. A counterfeit piece of money, being brass covered with silver.
[Obs.] Shak

10. Matter found in troughs of grindstones after the grinding of edge
tools. [Prov. Eng.] Sir W. Petty.

11. Potter's clay in a very liquid state, used for the decoration of
ceramic ware, and also as a cement for handless and other applied
parts.

12. A particular quantity of yarn. [Prov. Eng.]

13. An inclined plane on which a vessel is built, or upon which it is
hauled for repair.

14. An opening or space for vessels to lie in, between wharves or in
a dock; as, Peck slip. [U. S.]

15. A narrow passage between buildings. [Eng.]

16. A long seat or narrow pew in churches, often without a door. [U.
S.]

17. (Mining.)

Defn: A dislocation of a lead, destroying continuity. Knight.

18. (Engin.)

Defn: The motion of the center of resistance of the float of a paddle
wheel, or the blade of an oar, through the water horozontally, or the
difference between a vessel's actual speed and the speed which she
would have if the propelling instrument acted upon a solid; also, the
velocity, relatively to still water, of the backward current of water
produced by the propeller.

19. (Zool.)

Defn: A fish, the sole.

20. (Cricket)

Defn: A fielder stationed on the off side and to the rear of the
batsman. There are usually two of them, called respectively short
slip, and long slip. To give one the slip, to slip away from one; to
elude one.
 -- Slip dock. See under Dock.
 -- Slip link (Mach.), a connecting link so arranged as to allow some
play of the parts, to avoid concussion.
 -- Slip rope (Naut.), a rope by which a cable is secured preparatory
to slipping. Totten.
 -- Slip stopper (Naut.), an arrangement for letting go the anchor
suddenly.

SLIPBOARD
Slip"board`, n.

Defn: A board sliding in grooves.

SLIPCOAT CHEESE
Slip"coat` cheese".

Defn: A rich variety of new cheese, resembling butter, but white.
Halliwell.

SLIPES
Slipes, n. pl. Etym: [Cf. Slip, v.]

Defn: Sledge runners on which a skip is dragged in a mine.

SLIPKNOT
Slip"knot`, n.

Defn: knot which slips along the rope or line around which it is
made.

SLIP-ON
Slip"-on`, n.

Defn: A kind of overcoat worn upon the shoulders in the manner of a
cloak. [Scot.]

SLIPPAGE
Slip"page, n.

Defn: The act of slipping; also, the amount of slipping.

SLIPPER
Slip"per, n.

1. One who, or that which, slips.

2. A kind of light shoe, which may be slipped on with ease, and worn
in undress; a slipshoe.

3. A kind of apron or pinafore for children.

4. A kind of brake or shoe for a wagon wheel.

5. (Mach.)

Defn: A piece, usually a plate, applied to a sliding piece, to
receive wear and afford a means of adjustment; -- also called shoe,
and gib. Slipper animalcule (Zool.), a ciliated infusorian of the
genus Paramecium.
 -- Slipper flower.(Bot.) Slipperwort.
 -- Slipper limpet, or Slipper shell (Zool.), a boat shell.

SLIPPER
Slip"per, a. Etym: [AS. slipur.]

Defn: Slippery. [Obs.]
O! trustless state of earthly things, and slipper hope Of mortal men.
Spenser.

SLIPPERED
Slip"pered, a.

Defn: Wearing slippers. Shak.

SLIPPERILY
Slip"per*i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a slippery manner.

SLIPPERINESS
Slip"per*i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being slippery.

SLIPPERNESS
Slip"per*ness, n.

Defn: Slipperiness. [Obs.]

SLIPPERWORT
Slip"per*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Calceolaria.

SLIPPERY
Slip"per*y, a. Etym: [See Slipper, a.]

1. Having the quality opposite to adhesiveness; allowing or causing
anything to slip or move smoothly, rapidly, and easily upon the
surface; smooth; glib; as, oily substances render things slippery.

2. Not affording firm ground for confidence; as, a slippery promise.
The slippery tops of human state. Cowley.

3. Not easily held; liable or apt to slip away.
The slippery god will try to loose his hold. Dryden.

4. Liable to slip; not standing firm. Shak.

5. Unstable; changeable; mutable; uncertain; inconstant; fickle. "The
slippery state of kings." Denham.

6. Uncertain in effect. L'Estrange.

7. Wanton; unchaste; loose in morals. Shak. Slippery elm. (Bot.) (a)
An American tree (Ulmus fulva) with a mucilagenous and slightly
aromatic inner bark which is sometimes used medicinally; also, the
inner bark itself. (b) A malvaceous shrub (Fremontia Californica); --
so called on the Pacific coast.

SLIPPINESS
Slip"pi*ness, n.

Defn: Slipperiness. [R.] "The slippiness of the way." Sir W. Scott.

SLIPPY
Slip"py, a. Etym: [AS. slipeg.]

Defn: Slippery.

SLIPSHOD
Slip"shod`, a.

1. Wearing shoes or slippers down at the heel.
The shivering urchin bending as he goes, With slipshod heels. Cowper.

2. Figuratively: Careless in dress, manners, style, etc.; slovenly;
shuffling; as, slipshod manners; a slipshod or loose style of
writing.
Thy wit shall ne'er go slipshod. Shak.

SLIPSHOE
Slip"shoe`, n.

Defn: A slipper. Halliwell.

SLIPSKIN
Slip"skin`, a.

Defn: Evasive. [Obs.] Milton.

SLIPSLOP
Slip"slop`, n. Etym: [A reduplication of slop.]

Defn: Weak, poor, or flat liquor; weak, profitless discourse or
writing.

SLIPSTRING
Slip"string`, n.

Defn: One who has shaken off restraint; a prodigal. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

SLIPTHRIFT
Slip"thrift`, n.

Defn: A spendthrift. [Obs.]

SLISH
Slish, n. Etym: [A corruption of slash.]

Defn: A cut; as, slish and slash. [Colloq.] Shak.

SLIT
Slit, obs.

Defn: 3d. pers. sing. pres. of Slide. Chaucer.

SLIT
Slit, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slit or Slitted (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Slitting.] Etym: [OE. slitten, fr. sliten, AS. stitan to tear; akin
to D. slijten to wear out, G. schleissen to slit, split, OHG. slizan
to split, tear, wear out, Icel. stita to break, tear, wear out, Sw.
slita, Dan. slide. Cf. Eclat, Slate, n., Slice.]

1. To cut lengthwise; to cut into long pieces or strips; as, to slit
iron bars into nail rods; to slit leather into straps.

2. To cut or make a long fissure in or upon; as, to slit the ear or
the nose.

3. To cut; to sever; to divide. [Obs.]
And slits the thin-spun life. Milton.

SLIT
Slit, n. Etym: [AS. slite.]

Defn: A long cut; a narrow opening; as, a slit in the ear. Gill slit.
(Anat.) See Gill opening, under Gill.

SLITHER
Slith"er, v. i. Etym: [Cf. G. schlittern, LG. schliddern. See Slide.]

Defn: To slide; to glide. [Prov. Eng.]

SLIT-SHELL
Slit"-shell", n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of Pleurotomaria, a genus of beautiful, pearly,
spiral gastropod shells having a deep slit in the outer lip. Many
fossil species are known, and a few living ones are found in deep
water in tropical seas.

SLITTER
Slit"ter, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, slits.

SLITTING
Slit"ting, a. & n.

Defn: from Slit. Slitting file. See Illust. (i) of File.
 -- Slitting mill. (a) A mill where iron bars or plates are slit into
narrow strips, as nail rods, and the like. (b) A machine used by
lapidaries for slicing stones, usually by means of a revolving disk,
called a slicer, supplied with diamond powder.
 -- Slitting roller, one of a pair of rollers furnished with ribs
entering between similar ribs in the other roller, and cutting like
shears, -- used in slitting metals.

SLIVE
Slive, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Slip.]

Defn: To sneak. [Prov. Eng.]

SLIVE
Slive, v. t. Etym: [OE. sliven to split, cleave, AS. slifan.]

Defn: To cut; to split; to separate. [Obs.] Holland.

SLIVER
Sliv"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slivered; p. pr. & vb. n. Slivering.]
Etym: [See Slive, v. t.]

Defn: To cut or divide into long, thin pieces, or into very small
pieces; to cut or rend lengthwise; to slit; as, to sliver wood. Shak.
They 'll sliver thee like a turnip. Sir W. Scott.

SLIVER
Sliv"er, n.

1. A long piece cut ot rent off; a sharp, slender fragment; a
splinter.

2. A strand, or slender roll, of cotton or other fiber in a loose,
untwisted state, produced by a carding machine and ready for the
roving or slubbing which preceeds spinning.

3. pl.

Defn: Bait made of pieces of small fish. Cf. Kibblings. [Local, U.S.]
Bartlett.

SLOAKAN
Sloak"an, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A species of seaweed. [Spelled also slowcawn.] See 3d Laver.

SLOAM
Sloam, n. (Mining)

Defn: A layer of earth between coal seams.

SLOAT
Sloat, n. Etym: [See Slot a bar.]

Defn: A narrow piece of timber which holds together large pieces; a
slat; as, the sloats of a cart.

SLOBBER
Slob"ber, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Slabber.

SLOBBER
Slob"ber, n.

1. See Slabber.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A jellyfish. [Prov. Eng.]

3. pl. (Vet.)

Defn: Salivation.

SLOBBERER
Slob"ber*er, n.

1. One who slobbers.

2. A slovenly farmer; a jobbing tailor. [Prov. Eng.]

SLOBBERY
Slob"ber*y, a.

Defn: Wet; sloppy, as land. Shak.

SLOCK; SLOCKEN
Slock, Slock"en, v. t.

Defn: To quench; to allay; to slake. See Slake. [Obs. or Scot.]

SLOCKING
Slock"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Slock. Slocking stone, a rich piece of ore displayed in
order to tempt persons to embark in a mining enterprise.

SLOE
Sloe, n. Etym: [OE. slo, AS. sla; akin to D. slee, G. schlehe, OHG.
sl$ha, Dan. slaaen, Sw. sl, perhaps originally, that which blunts the
teeth, or sets them on edge (cf. Slow); cf. Lith. sliwa a plum, Russ.
sliva.] (Bot.)

Defn: A small, bitter, wild European plum, the fruit of the
blackthorn (Prunus spinosa); also, the tree itself.

SLOG
Slog, v. t. & i. [Cf. Slug, v. t.]

Defn: To hit hard, esp. with little attention to aim or the like, as
in cricket or boxing; to slug. [Cant or Slang]

SLOGAN
Slo"gan, n. Etym: [Gael. sluagh-ghairm, i.e., an army cry; sluagh
army + gairm a call, calling.]

Defn: The war cry, or gathering word, of a Highland clan in Scotland;
hence, any rallying cry. Sir W. Scott.

SLOGGER
Slog"ger, n.

Defn: A hard hitter; a slugger. [Cant or Slang]  T. Hughes.

SLOGGY
Slog"gy, a.

Defn: Sluggish. [Obs.]
Somnolence that is sloggy slumbering Chaucer.

SLOKE
Sloke, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Sloakan.

SLOO; SLUE
Sloo, or Slue, n.

Defn: A slough; a run or wet place. See 2d Slough, 2.

SLOOM
Sloom, n.

Defn: Slumber. [Prov. Eng.]

SLOOMY
Sloom"y, a.

Defn: Sluggish; slow. [Prov. Eng.]

SLOOP
Sloop, n.Etym: [D. sloep, of uncertain origin. Cf. Shallop.] (Naut.)

Defn: A vessel having one mast and fore-and-aft rig, consisting of a
boom-and-gaff mainsail, jibs, staysail, and gaff topsail. The typical
sloop has a fixed bowsprit, topmast, and standing rigging, while
those of a cutter are capable of being readily shifted. The sloop
usually carries a centerboard, and depends for stability upon breadth
of beam rather than depth of keel. The two types have rapidly
approximated since 1880. One radical distinction is that a slop may
carry a centerboard. See Cutter, and Illustration in Appendix. Sloop
of war, formerly, a vessel of war rigged either as a ship, brig, or
schooner, and mounting from ten to thirty-two guns; now, any war
vessel larger than a gunboat, and carrying guns on one deck only.

SLOP
Slop, n. Etym: [OE. sloppe a pool; akin to As. sloppe, slyppe, the
sloppy droppings of a cow; cf. AS. sl to slip, and E. slip, v.i. Cf.
Cowslip.]

1. Water or other liquid carelessly spilled or thrown aboyt, as upon
a table or a floor; a puddle; a soiled spot.

2. Mean and weak drink or liquid food; -- usually in the plural.

3. pl.

Defn: Dirty water; water in which anything has been washed or rinsed;
water from wash-bowls, etc. Slop basin, or Slop bowl, a basin or bowl
for holding slops, especially for receiving the rinsings of tea or
coffee cups at the table.
 -- Slop molding (Brickmaking), a process of manufacture in which the
brick is carried to the drying ground in a wet mold instead of on a
pallet.

SLOP
Slop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slopped; p. pr. & vb. n. Slopping.]

1. To cause to overflow, as a liquid, by the motion of the vessel
containing it; to spill.

2. To spill liquid upon; to soil with a liquid spilled.

SLOP
Slop, v. i.

Defn: To overflow or be spilled as a liquid, by the motion of the
vessel containing it; -- often with over.

SLOP
Slop, n. Etym: [AS. slop a frock or over-garment, fr. sl to slip, to
slide; akin to Icel sloppr a thin garment; cf. OHG. slouf a garment.
Cf. Slip, v. i.]

1. Any kind of outer garment made of linen or cotton, as a night
dress, or a smock frock. [Obs.] Halliwell.

2. A loose lower garment; loose breeches; chiefly used in the plural.
"A pair of slops." Sir P. Sidney.
There's a French salutation to your French slop. Shak.

3. pl.

Defn: Ready-made clothes; also, among seamen, clothing, bedding, and
other furnishings.

SLOPE
Slope, n. Etym: [Formed (like abode fr. abide) from OE. slipen. See
Slip, v. i.]

1. An oblique direction; a line or direction including from a
horizontal line or direction; also, sometimes, an inclination, as of
one line or surface to another.

2. Any ground whose surface forms an angle with the plane of the
horizon.
buildings the summit and slope of a hill. Macaulay.
Under the slopes of Pisgah. Deut. iv. 49. (Rev. Ver.).

Note: A slope, considered as descending, is a declivity; considered
as ascending, an acclivity. Slope of a plane (Geom.), the direction
of the plane; as, parallel planes have the same slope.

SLOPE
Slope, a.

Defn: Sloping. "Down the slope hills." Milton.
A bank not steep, but gently slope. Bacon.

SLOPE
Slope, adv.

Defn: In a sloping manner. [Obs.] Milton.

SLOPE
Slope, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sloped; p. pr. & vb. n. Sloping.]

Defn: To form with a slope; to give an oblique or slanting direction
to; to direct obliquely; to incline; to slant; as, to slope the
ground in a garden; to slope a piece of cloth in cutting a garment.

SLOPE
Slope, v. i.

1. To take an oblique direction; to be at an angle with the plane of
the horizon; to incline; as, the ground slopes.

2. To depart; to disappear suddenly. [Slang]

SLOPENESS
Slope"ness, n.

Defn: State of being slope. Sir H. Wotton.

SLOPEWISE
Slope"wise`, adv.

Defn: Obliquely. [Obs.] Carew.

SLOPING
Slop"ing, a.

Defn: Inclining or inclined from the plane of the horizon, or from a
horizontal or other right line; oblique; declivous; slanting.
 -- Slop"ing*ly, adv.
The sloping land recedes into the clouds. Cowper.

SLOPPINESS
Slop"pi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sloppy; muddiness.

SLOPPY
Slop"py, a. [Compar. Sloppier; superl. Sloppiest.] Etym: [From Slop.]

Defn: Wet, so as to spatter easily; wet, as with something slopped
over; muddy; plashy; as, a sloppy place, walk, road.

SLOPSELLER
Slop"sell`er, n.

Defn: One who sells slops, or ready-made clothes. See 4th Slop, 3.

SLOPSHOP
Slop"shop`, n.

Defn: A shop where slops. or ready-made clothes, are sold.

SLOPWORK
Slop"work`, n.

Defn: The manufacture of slops, or cheap ready-made clothing; also,
such clothing; hence, hasty, slovenly work of any kind.
No slopwork ever dropped from his [Carlyle's] pen. Froude.

SLOPY
Slop"y, a.

Defn: Sloping; inclined.

SLOSH; SLOSHY
Slosh, Slosh"y.

Defn: See Slush, Slushy.

SLOT
Slot, n. Etym: [LG. & D. slot a lock, from a verb meaning to close.,
to shut, D. sluiten; akin to G. schliessen, OHG. sliozan, OFries. sl,
and probably to L. claudere. Cf. Close, Sluice.]

1. A broad, flat, wooden bar; a slat or sloat.

2. A bolt or bar for fastening a door. [Prov. Eng.]

3. A narrow depression, perforation, or aperture; esp., one for the
reception of a piece fitting or sliding in it.

SLOT
Slot, v. t. Etym: [See Slot a bar.]

Defn: To shut with violence; to slam; as, to slot a door. [Obs. or
Prov. Eng.]

SLOT
Slot, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. sl, and E. sleuth.]

Defn: The track of a deer; hence, a track of any kind. Milton.
As a bloodhound follows the slot of a hurt deer. Sir W. Scott.

SLOTH
Sloth, n. Etym: [OE. slouthe, sleuthe, AS. sl, fr. slaw slow. See
Slow.]

1. Slowness; tardiness.
These cardinals trifle with me; I abhor This dilatory sloth and
tricks of Rome. Shak.

2. Disinclination to action or labor; sluggishness; laziness;
idleness.
[They] change their course to pleasure, ease, and sloth. Milton.
Sloth, like rust, consumes faster than labor wears. Franklin.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of arboreal edentates constituting
the family Bradypodid?, and the suborder Tardigrada. They have long
exserted limbs and long prehensile claws. Both jaws are furnished
with teeth (see Illust. of Edentata), and the ears and tail are
rudimentary. They inhabit South and Central America and Mexico.

Note: The three-toed sloths belong to the genera Bradypus and
Arctopithecus, of which several species have been described. They
have three toes on each foot. The best-known species are collared
sloth (Bradypus tridactylus), and the ai (Arctopitheus ai). The two-
toed sloths, consisting the genus Cholopus, have two toes on each
fore foot and three on each hind foot. The best-known is the unau
(Cholopus didactylus) of South America. See Unau. Another species (C.
Hoffmanni) inhabits Central America. Various large extinct
terrestrial edentates, such as Megatherium and Mylodon, are often
called sloths. Australian, or Native sloth (Zool.), the koala.
 -- Sloth animalcule (Zool.), a tardigrade.
 -- Sloth bear (Zool.), a black or brown long-haired bear (Melursus
ursinus, or labiatus), native of India and Ceylon; -- called also
aswail, labiated bear, and jungle bear. It is easily tamed and can be
taught many tricks.
 -- Sloth monkey (Zool.), a loris.

SLOTH
Sloth, v. i.

Defn: To be idle. [Obs.] Gower.

SLOTHFUL
Sloth"ful, a.

Defn: Addicted to sloth; inactive; sluggish; lazy; indolent; idle.
He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a
great waster. Prov. xviii. 9.
-- Sloth"ful*ly, adv.
 -- Sloth"ful*ness, n.

SLOTHHOUND
Sloth"hound`, n. Etym: [See Slot a track, and cf. Sleuthhound.]
(Zool.)

Defn: See Sleuthhound.

SLOT MACHINE
Slot" ma*chine".

Defn: A machine the operation of which is started by dropping a coin
into a slot, for delivering small articles of merchandise, showing
one's weight, exhibiting pictures, throwing dice, etc.

SLOTTED
Slot"ted, a.

Defn: Having a slot.

SLOTTING
Slot"ting, n.

Defn: The act or process of making slots, or mortises.

SLOUCH
Slouch, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. sla slouching felloew, and E. slack,
slug, a lazy fellow.]

1. A hanging down of the head; a drooping attitude; a limp
appearance; an ungainly, clownish gait; a sidewise depression or
hanging down, as of a hat brim.

2. An awkward, heavy, clownish fellow. [Colloq.] Slouth hat, a soft,
limp hat of unstiffened cloth or felt.

SLOUCH
Slouch, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slouched; p. pr. & vb. n. Slouching.]

1. To droop, as the head.

2. To walk in a clumsy, lazy manner. [Colloq.]

SLOUCH
Slouch, v. t.

Defn: To cause to hang down; to depress at the side; as, to slouth
the hat.

SLOUCHING
Slouch"ing, a.

Defn: Hanging down at the side; limp; drooping; without firmness or
shapeliness; moving in an ungainly manner.

SLOUCHY
Slouch"y, a.

Defn: Slouching. [Colloq.]

SLOUGH
Slough, a.

Defn: Slow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLOUGH
Slough, n. Etym: [OE. slogh, slough, AS. sloh a hollow place; cf.
MHG. sluch an abyss, gullet, G. schlucken to swallow; also Gael. &
Ir. sloc a pit, pool. ditch, Ir. slug to swallow. Gr.

1. A place of deep mud or mire; a hole full of mire. Chaucer.
He's here stuck in a slough. Milton.

2. [Pronounced sloo.]

Defn: A wet place; a swale; a side channel or inlet from a river.

Note: [In this sense local or provincial; also spelt sloo, and slue.]
Slough grass (Bot.), a name in the Mississippi valley for grasses of
the genus Muhlenbergia; -- called also drop seed, and nimble Will.

SLOUGH
Slough, obs.

Defn: imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew. Chaucer.

SLOUGH
Slough, n. Etym: [OE. slugh, slouh; cf. MHG. sl the skin of a
serpent, G. schlauch a skin, a leather bag or bottle.]

1. The skin, commonly the cast-off skin, of a serpent or of some
similar animal.

2. (Med.)

Defn: The dead mass separating from a foul sore; the dead part which
separates from the living tissue in mortification.

SLOUGH
Slough, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sloughed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sloughing.]
(Med.)

Defn: To form a slough; to separate in the form of dead matter from
the living tissues; -- often used with off, or away; as, a sloughing
ulcer; the dead tissues slough off slowly.

SLOUGH
Slough, v. t.

Defn: To cast off; to discard as refuse.
New tint the plumage of the birds, And slough decay from grazing
herds. Emerson.

SLOUGHING
Slough"ing, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The act of casting off the skin or shell, as do insects and
crustaceans; ecdysis.

SLOUGHY
Slough"y, a.

Defn: Full of sloughs, miry.

SLOUGHY
Slough"y, a.

Defn: Resembling, or of the nature of, a slough, or the dead matter
which separates from living flesh.

SLOVEN
Slov"en, n. Etym: [D. slaf careless, negligent, a sloven; akin to LG.
sluf slovenly.]

Defn: A man or boy habitually negligent of neathess and order; -- the
correlative term to slattern, or slut. Pope.
He became a confirmed sloven. Macaulay.

SLOVENLINESS
Slov"en*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being slovenly.

SLOVENLY
Slov"en*ly, a.

1. Having the habits of a sloven; negligent of neatness and order,
especially in dress.
A slovenly, lazy fellow, bolling at his ease. L'Estrange.

2. Characteristic of a solven; lacking neatness and order; evincing
negligence; as, slovenly dress.

SLOVENLY
Slov"en*ly, adv.

Defn: a slovenly manner.

SLOVENNESS
Slov"en*ness, n.

Defn: Slovenliness. [Obs.] Fuller.

SLOVENRY
Slov"en*ry, n.

Defn: Slovenliness. [Obs.] Shak.

SLOW
Slow, obs.

Defn: imp. of Slee, to slay. Slew. Chaucer.

SLOW
Slow, a. [Compar. Slower; superl. Slowest.] Etym: [OE. slow, slaw,
AS. slaw; akin to OS. sl blunt, dull, D. sleeuw, slee, sour, OHG. sl
blunt, dull, Icel. sl, sl, Dan. slov, Sw. slo. Cf. Sloe, and Sloth.]

1. Moving a short space in a relatively long time; not swift; not
quick in motion; not rapid; moderate; deliberate; as, a slow stream;
a slow motion.

2. Not happening in a short time; gradual; late.
These changes in the heavens, though slow, produced Like change on
sea and land, sidereal blast. Milton.

3. Not ready; not prompt or quick; dilatory; sluggish; as, slow of
speech, and slow of tongue.
Fixed on defense, the Trojans are not slow To guard their shore from
an expected foe. Dryden.

4. Not hasty; not precipitate; acting with deliberation; tardy;
inactive.
He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding. Prov. xiv. 29.

5. Behind in time; indicating a time earlier than the true time; as,
the clock or watch is slow.

6. Not advancing or improving rapidly; as, the slow growth of arts
and sciences.

7. Heavy in wit; not alert, prompt, or spirited; wearisome; dull.
[Colloq.] Dickens. Thackeray.

Note: Slow is often used in the formation of compounds for the most
part self-explaining; as, slow-gaited, slow-paced, slow-sighted,
slow-winged, and the like. Slow coach, a slow person. See def.7,
above. [Colloq.] -- Slow lemur, or Slow loris (Zool.), an East Indian
nocturnal lemurine animal (Nycticebus tardigradus) about the size of
a small cat; -- so called from its slow and deliberate movements. It
has very large round eyes and is without a tail. Called also bashful
Billy.
 -- Slow match. See under Match.

Syn.
 -- Dilatory; late; lingering; tardy; sluggish; dull; inactive.
 -- Slow, Tardy, Dilatory. Slow is the wider term, denoting either a
want of rapid motion or inertness of intellect. Dilatory signifies a
proneness to defer, a habit of delaying the performance of what we
know must be done. Tardy denotes the habit of being behind hand; as,
tardy in making up one's acounts.

SLOW
Slow, adv.

Defn: Slowly.
Let him have time to mark how slow time goes In time of sorrow. Shak.

SLOW
Slow, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Slowing.]

Defn: To render slow; to slacken the speed of; to retard; to delay;
as, to slow a steamer. Shak.

SLOW
Slow, v. i.

Defn: To go slower; -- often with up; as, the train slowed up before
crossing the bridge.

SLOW
Slow, n.

Defn: A moth. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

SLOWBACK
Slow"back`, n.

Defn: A lubber; an idle fellow; a loiterer. [Old Slang] Dr. Favour.

SLOWH
Slowh, obs.

Defn: imp. of Slee,to slay. Chaucer.

SLOWHOUND
Slow"hound`, n.

Defn: A sleuthhound. [R.]

SLOWLY
Slow"ly, adv.

Defn: In a slow manner; moderately; not rapidly; not early; not
rashly; not readly; tardly.

SLOWNESS
Slow"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being slow.

SLOWS
Slows, n. (Med.)

Defn: Milk sickness.

SLOW-WITTED
Slow"-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Dull of apprehension; not possessing quick intelligence.

SLOWWORM
Slow"worm`, n. Etym: [AS. slawyrm; the first part is probably akin to
slean to strike, the reptile being supposed to be very poisonous. See
Slay, v. t., and Worm.] (Zool.)

Defn: A lecertilian reptile; the blindworm.

SLOYD
Sloyd, n. [Written also slojd, and sloid.] [Sw. slojd skill,
dexterity, esp. skilled labor, hence, manufacture, wood carving.]

Defn: Lit., skilled mechanical work, such as that required in wood
carving; trade work; hence, a system (usually called the sloyd
system) of manual training in the practical use of the tools and
materials used in the trades, and of instruction in the making and
use of the plans and specifications connected with trade work. The
sloyd system derives its name from the fact that it was adopted or
largely developed from a similar Swedish system, in which wood
carving was a chief feature. Its purpose is not only to afford
practical skill in some trade, but also to develop the pupils
mentally and physically.

SLUB
Slub, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A roll of wool slightly twisted; a rove; -- called also
slubbing.

SLUB
Slub, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Slubbing.]

Defn: To draw out and twist slightly; -- said of slivers of wool.

SLUBBER
Slub"ber, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slubbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Slubbering.]
Etym: [Cf. Dan. slubbreto swallow, to sup up, D. slobberen to lap, to
slabber. Cf. Slabber.]

1. To do lazily, imperfectly, or coarsely.
Slubber not business for my sake. Shak.

2. To daub; to stain; to cover carelessly.
There is no art that hath more . . . slubbered with aphorisming
pedantry than the art of policy. Milton.

SLUBBER
Slub"ber, n.

Defn: A slubbing machine.

SLUBBERDEGULLION
Slub"ber*de*gul`lion, n. Etym: [Slubber + Prov. E. gullion a wretch.]

Defn: A mean, dirty wretch. [Low]

SLUBBERINGLY
Slub"ber*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a slovenly, or hurried and imperfect, manner. [Low] Drayton.

SLUBBING
Slub"bing, a. & n.

Defn: from Slub. Slubbing billy, or Slubbing machine, the machine by
which slubs are formed.

SLUDGE
Sludge, n. Etym: [CF. Slush.]

1. Mud; mire; soft mud; slush. Mortimer. Tennyson.

2. Small floating pieces of ice, or masses of saturated snow. Kane.

3. (Mining)

Defn: See Slime, 4. Sludge hole, the hand-hole, or manhole, in a
steam boiler, by means of which sediment can be removed.

SLUDGE ACID
Sludge acid.

Defn: Impure dark-colored sulphuric acid that has been used in the
refining of petroleum.

SLUDGER
Slud"ger, n.

Defn: A bucket for removing mud from a bored hole; a sand pump.

SLUDGER
Sludg"er, n.

Defn: A shovel for sludging out drains, etc.

SLUDY
Slud"y, a.

Defn: Miry; slushy.

SLUE
Slue, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slued (; p. pr. & vb. n. Sluing (.] Etym:
[Prov. E. slew to turn round, Scot. to lean or incline to a side; cf.
Icel. sn to turn, bend.] [Written also slew.]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: To turn about a fixed point, usually the center or axis, as a
spar or piece of timber; to turn; -- used also of any heavy body.

2. In general, to turn about; to twist; -- often used reflexively and
followed by round. [Colloq.]
They laughed, and slued themselves round. Dickens.

SLUE
Slue, v. i.

Defn: To turn about; to turn from the course; to slip or slide and
turn from an expected or desired course; -- often followed by round.

SLUE
Slue, n.

Defn: See Sloough, 2. [Local]

SLUG
Slug, n. Etym: [OE. slugge slothful, sluggen to be slothful; cf. LG.
slukk low-spirited, sad, E. slack, slouch, D. slak, slek, a snail.]

1. A drone; a slow, lazy fellow; a sluggard. Shak.

2. A hindrance; an obstruction. [Obs.] Bacon.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of terrestrial pulmonate mollusks
belonging to Limax and several related genera, in which the shell is
either small and concealed in the mantle, or altogether wanting. They
are closely allied to the land snails.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: Any smooth, soft larva of a sawfly or moth which creeps like a
mollusk; as, the pear slug; rose slug.

5. A ship that sails slowly. [Obs.] Halliwell.
His rendezvous for his fleet, and for all slugs to come to, should be
between Calais and Dover. Pepys.

6. Etym: [Perhaps a different word.]

Defn: An irregularly shaped piece of metal, used as a missile for a
gun.

7. (Print.)

Defn: A thick strip of metal less than type high, and as long as the
width of a column or a page, -- used in spacing out pages and to
separate display lines, etc. Sea slug. (Zool.) (a) Any nudibranch
mollusk. (b) A holothurian.
 -- Slug caterpillar. Same as Slugworm.

SLUG
Slug, v. i.

Defn: To move slowly; to lie idle. [Obs.]
To slug in sloth and sensual delight. Spenser.

SLUG
Slug, v. t.

Defn: To make sluggish. [Obs.] Milton.

SLUG
Slug, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slugged; p. pr. & vb. n. Slugging.]

1. To load with a slug or slugs; as, to slug a gun.

2. To strike heavily. [Cant or Slang]

SLUG
Slug, v. i.

Defn: To become reduced in diameter, or changed in shape, by passing
from a larger to a smaller part of the bore of the barrel; -- said of
a bullet when fired from a gun, pistol, or other firearm.

SLUGABED
Slug"a*bed`, n.

Defn: One who indulges in lying abed; a sluggard. [R.] "Fie, you
slugabed!" Shak.

SLUGGARD
Slug"gard, n. Etym: [Slug + -ard.]

Defn: A person habitually lazy, idle, and inactive; a drone.
Go to the ant, thou sluggard; considered her ways, and be wise. Prov.
vi. 6.

SLUGGARD
Slug"gard, a.

Defn: Sluggish; lazy. Dryden.

SLUGGARDIZE
Slug"gard*ize, v. t.

Defn: To make lazy. [R.] Shak.

SLUGGARDY
Slug"gard*y, n. Etym: [OE. sloggardye.]

Defn: The state of being a sluggard; sluggishness; sloth. Gower.
Idleness is rotten sluggardy. Chaucer.

SLUGGER
Slug"ger, n.

Defn: One who strikes heavy blows; hence, a boxer; a prize fighter.
[Cant or Slang]

SLUGGING MATCH
Slug"ging match.
 (a) A boxing match or prize fight marked rather by heavy hitting
than skill. [Cant or Slang]
 (b) A ball game, esp. a baseball game, in which  there is much hard
hitting of the ball. [Slang, U. S.]

SLUGGISH
Slug"gish, a.

1. Habitually idle and lazy; slothful; dull; inactive; as, a sluggish
man.

2. Slow; having little motion; as, a sluggish stream.

3. Having no power to move one's self or itself; inert.
Matter, being impotent, sluggish, and inactive, hath no power to stir
or move itself. Woodward.
And the sluggish land slumbers in utter neglect. Longfellow.

4. Characteristic of a sluggard; dull; stupid; tame; simple. [R.] "So
sluggish a conceit." Milton.

Syn.
 -- Inert; idle; lazy; slothful; indolent; dronish; slow; dull;
drowsy; inactive. See Inert.
 -- Slug"gish*ly, adv.
 -- Slug"gish*ness, n.

SLUGGY
Slug"gy, a.

Defn: Sluggish. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLUG-HORN
Slug"-horn`, a.

Defn: An erroneous form of the Scotch word slughorne, or sloggorne,
meaning slogan.

SLUGS
Slugs, n. pl. (Mining)

Defn: Half-roasted ore.

SLUGWORM
Slug"worm`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any caterpillar which has the general appearance of a slug, as
do those of certain moths belonging to Limacodes and allied genera,
and those of certain sawflies.

SLUICE
Sluice, n. Etym: [OF. escluse, F. ecluse, LL. exclusa, sclusa, from
L. excludere, exclusum, to shut out: cf. D. sluis sluice, from the
Old French. See Exclude.]

1. An artifical passage for water, fitted with a valve or gate, as in
a mill stream, for stopping or regulating the flow; also, a water
gate of flood gate.

2. Hence, an opening or channel through which anything flows; a
source of supply.
Each sluice of affluent fortune opened soon. Harte.
This home familiarity . . . opens the sluices of sensibility. I.
Taylor.

3. The stream flowing through a flood gate.

4. (Mining)

Defn: A long box or trough through which water flows, -- used for
washing auriferous earth. Sluice gate, the sliding gate of a sluice.

SLUICE
Sluice, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sluiced; p. pr. & vb. n. Sluicing.]

1. To emit by, or as by, flood gates. [R.] Milton.

2. To wet copiously, as by opening a sluice; as, to sluice meadows.
Howitt.
He dried his neck and face, which he had been sluicing with cold
water. De Quincey.

3. To wash with, or in, a stream of water running through a sluice;
as, to sluice eart or gold dust in mining.

SLUICEWAY
Sluice"way`, n.

Defn: An artificial channel into which water is let by a sluice;
specifically, a trough constructed over the bed of a stream, so that
logs, lumber, or rubbish can be floated down to some convenient place
of delivery.

SLUICY
Slui`cy, a.

Defn: Falling copiously or in streams, as from a sluice.
And oft whole sheets descend of sluicy rain. Dryden.

SLUM
Slum, n. Etym: [CF. Slump, n.]

1. A foul back street of a city, especially one filled with a poor,
dirty, degraded, and often vicious population; any low neighborhood
or dark retreat; -- usually in the plural; as, Westminster slums are
haunts for theives. Dickens.

2. pl. (Mining)

Defn: Same as Slimes.

SLUMBER
Slum"ber, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slumbered; p. pr. & vb. n. Slumbering.]
Etym: [OE. slombren, slumberen, slumeren, AS. slumerian, fr. sluma
slumber; akin to D. sluimeren to slumber, MHG. slummern, slumen, G.
schlummern, Dan. slumre, Sw. slumra, Goth. slawan to be silent.]

1. To sleep; especially, to sleep lightly; to doze. Piers Plowman.
He that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep. Ps. cxxi. 4.

2. To be in a state of negligence, sloth, supineness, or inactivity.
"Why slumbers Pope" Young.

SLUMBER
Slum"ber, v. t.

1. To lay to sleep. [R.] Wotton.

2. To stun; to stupefy. [Obs.] Spenser.

SLUMBER
Slum"ber, n.

Defn: Sleep; especially, light sleep; sleep that is not deep or
sound; repose.
He at last fell into a slumber, and thence into a fast sleep, which
detained him in that place until it was almost night. Bunyan.
Fast asleep It is no matter; Enjoy the honey-heavy dew of slumber.
Shak.
Rest to my soul, and slumber to my eyes. Dryden.

SLUMBERER
Slum"ber*er, n.

Defn: One who slumbers; a sleeper.

SLUMBERINGLY
Slum"ber*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a slumbering manner.

SLUMBERLESS
Slum"ber*less, a.

Defn: Without slumber; sleepless.

SLUMBEROUS
Slum"ber*ous, a.

1. Inviting slumber; soporiferous. "Pensive in the slumberous shade."
Pope.

2. Being in the repose of slumber; sleepy; drowsy.
His quiet and almost slumberous countenance. Hawthorne.

SLUMBERY
Slum"ber*y, a.

Defn: Sleepy. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SLUMBROUS
Slum"brous, a.

Defn: Slumberous. Keats.

SLUMGUM
Slum"gum`, n.

Defn: The impure residue, consisting of cocoons, propolis, etc.,
remaining after the wax is extracted from honeycombs.

SLUMMING
Slum"ming, vb. n.

Defn: Visiting slums.

SLUMP
Slump, n. Etym: [Cf. D. slomp a mass, heap, Dan. slump a quantity,
and E. slump, v.t.]

Defn: The gross amount; the mass; the lump. [Scot.]

SLUMP
Slump, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Lump; also Sw. slumpa to bargain for the
lump.]

Defn: To lump; to throw into a mess.
These different groups . . . are exclusively slumped together under
that sense. Sir W. Hamilton.

SLUMP
Slump, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Slumped; p. pr. & vb. n. Slumping.] Etym:
[Scot. slump a dull noise produced by something falling into a hole,
a marsh, a swamp.]

Defn: To fall or sink suddenly through or in, when walking on a
surface, as on thawing snow or ice, partly frozen ground, a bog,
etc., not strong enough to bear the person.
The latter walk on a bottomless quag, into which unawares they may
slump. Barrow.

SLUMP
Slump, n.

1. A boggy place. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

2. The noise made by anything falling into a hole, or into a soft,
miry place. [Scot.]

SLUMPY
Slump"y, a.

Defn: Easily broken through; boggy; marshy; swampy. [Prov. Eng. &
Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett.

SLUNG
Slung,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Sling. Slung shot, a metal ball of small size,
with a string attached, used by ruffians for striking.

SLUNK
Slunk,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Slink.

SLUR
Slur, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slurred; p. pr. & vb. n. Slurring.] Etym:
[Cf. OE. sloor mud, clay, Icel. sl, slo, to trail or drag one's self
along, D. sleuren, sloren, to train, to drag, to do negligently and
slovenly, D. sloor, sloerie, a sluttish girl.]

1. To soil; to sully; to contaminate; to disgrace. Cudworth.

2. To disparage; to traduce. Tennyson.

3. To cover over; to disguise; to conceal; to pass over lightly or
with little notice.
With periods, points, and tropes, he slurs his crimes. Dryden.

4. To cheat, as by sliding a die; to trick. [R.]
To slur men of what they fought for. Hudibras.

5. To pronounce indistinctly; as, to slur syllables.

6. (Mus.)

Defn: To sing or perform in a smooth, gliding style; to connect
smoothly in performing, as several notes or tones. Busby.

7. (Print.)

Defn: To blur or double, as an impression from type; to mackle.

SLUR
Slur, n.

1. A mark or stain; hence, a slight reproach or disgrace; a stigma; a
reproachful intimation; an innuendo. "Gaining to his name a lasting
slur." South.

2. A trick played upon a person; an imposition. [R.]

3. (Mus.)

Defn: A mark, thus [&upslur; or ], connecting notes that are to be
sung to the same syllable, or made in one continued breath of a wind
instrument, or with one stroke of a bow; a tie; a sign of legato.

4. In knitting machines, a contrivance for depressing the sinkers
successively by passing over them.

SLURRED
Slurred, a. (Mus.)

Defn: Marked with a slur; performed in a smooth, gliding style, like
notes marked with a slur.

SLUSH
Slush, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. slaska to paddle in water, slask wet,
filth.] [Written also slosh.]

1. Soft mud.

2. A mixture of snow and water; half-melted snow.

3. A soft mixture of grease and other materials, used for
lubrication.

4. The refuse grease and fat collected in cooking, especially on
shipboard.

5. (Mach.)

Defn: A mixture of white lead and lime, with which the bright parts
of machines, such as the connecting rods of steamboats, are painted
to be preserved from oxidation.

SLUSH
Slush, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Slushed; p. pr. & vb. n. Slushing.]

1. To smear with slush or grease; as, to slush a mast.

2. To paint with a mixture of white lead and lime.

SLUSHY
Slush"y, a.

Defn: Abounding in slush; characterized by soft mud or half-melted
snow; as, the streets are slushy; the snow is slushy. "A dark,
drizzling, slushy day." Blackw. Mag.

SLUT
Slut, n. Etym: [OE. slutte; cf. OD. slodde a slut, Icel. slottr a
heavy, loglike fellow, slota to droop.]

1. An untidy woman; a slattern.
Sluts are good enough to make a sloven's porridge. Old Proverb.

2. A servant girl; a drudge. [Obs.]
Our little girl Susan is a most admirable slut, and pleases us
mightly, doing more service than both the others. Pepys.

3. A female dog; a bitch.

SLUTCH
Slutch, n. Etym: [CF. Sludge.]

Defn: Slush. [Prov. Eng.]

SLUTCHY
Slutch"y, a.

Defn: Slushy. [Prov. Eng.] Pennant.

SLUTHHOUND
Sluth"hound`, n.

Defn: Sleuthhound.

SLUTTERY
Slut"ter*y, n.

Defn: The qualities and practices of a slut; sluttishness;
slatternlines. Drayton.

SLUTTISH
Slut"tish, a.

Defn: Like a slut; untidy; indecently negligent of cleanliness;
disorderly; as, a sluttish woman.
Why is thy lord so slutish, I thee pray. Chaucer.
An air of liberal, though sluttish, plenty, indicated the wealthy
farmer. Sir W. Scott.
-- Slut"tish*ly, adv.
 -- Slut"tish*ness, n.

SLY
Sly, a. [Compar. Slier or Slyer; superl. Sliest or Slyest.] Etym:
[OE. sli, slegh, sleih, Icel sl, for sl; akin to Sw. slug, Dan. slu,
LG. slou, G. schlau; probably to E. slay, v.t.; cf. G. verschlagen
sly. See Slay, v. t., and cf. Sleight.]

1. Dexterous in performing an action, so as to escape notice; nimble;
skillful; cautious; shrewd; knowing; -- in a good sense.
Be ye sly as serpents, and simple as doves. Wyclif (Matt. x. 16).
Whom graver age And long experience hath made wise and sly. Fairfax.

2. Artfully cunning; secretly mischievous; wily.
For my sly wiles and subtle craftiness, The litle of the kingdom I
possess. Spenser.

3. Done with, and marked by, artful and dexterous secrecy; subtle;
as, a sly trick.
Envy works in a sly and imperceptible manner. I. Watts.

4. Light or delicate; slight; thin. [Obs.] By the sly, or On the sly,
in a sly or secret manner. [Colloq.] "Gazed on Hetty's charms by the
sly." G. Eliot.
 -- Sly goose (Zool.), the common sheldrake; -- so named from its
craftiness.

Syn.
 -- Cunning; crafty; subtile; wily. See Cunning.

SLY
Sly, adv.

Defn: Slyly. [Obs. or Poetic] Spenser.

SLYBOOTS
Sly"boots`, n.

Defn: A humerous appellation for a sly, cunning, or waggish person.
Slyboots was cursedly cunning to hide 'em. Goldsmith.

SLYLY
Sly"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sly manner; shrewdly; craftily.
Honestly and slyly he it spent. Chaucer.

SLYNESS
Sly"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sly.

SLYPE
Slype, n. Etym: [Cf. D. sluipen to sneak.] (Arch.)

Defn: A narrow passage between two buildings, as between the transept
and chapter house of a monastery. [Eng.]

SMACK
Smack, n. Etym: [D. smak; akin to LG. smack, smak, Dan. smakke, G.
schmacke, F. semaque.] (Naut.)

Defn: A small sailing vessel, commonly rigged as a sloop, used
chiefly in the coasting and fishing trade.

SMACK
Smack, n. Etym: [OE. smak, AS. ssm taste, savor; akin to D. smaak, G.
geschmack, OHG. smac; cf. Lith. smagus pleasant. Cf. Smack, v. i.]

1. Taste or flavor, esp. a slight taste or flavor; savor; tincture;
as, a smack of bitter in the medicine. Also used figuratively.
So quickly they have taken a smack in covetousness. Robynson (More's
Utopia).
They felt the smack of this world. Latimer.

2. A small quantity; a taste. Dryden.

3. A loud kiss; a buss. "A clamorous smack." Shak.

4. A quick, sharp noise, as of the lips when suddenly separated, or
of a whip.

5. A quick, smart blow; a slap. Johnson.

SMACK
Smack, adv.

Defn: As if with a smack or slap. [Colloq.]

SMACK
Smack, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Smacked; p. pr. & vb. n. Smacking.] Etym:
[OE. smaken to taste, have a taste, -- from the noun; cf. AS. smecan
taste; akin to D. smaken, G. schmecken, OHG. smechen to taste,
smachschmatzen to smack the lips, to kiss with a sharp noise, MHG.
smatzen, smackzeen), Icel smakka to taste, Sw. smaka, Dan. smage. See
2d Smack, n.]

1. To have a smack; to be tinctured with any particular taste.

2. To have or exhibit indications of the presence of any character or
quality.
All sects, all ages, smack of this vice. Shak.

3. To kiss with a close compression of the lips, so as to make a
sound when they separate; to kiss with a sharp noise; to buss.

4. To make a noise by the separation of the lips after tasting
anything.

SMACK
Smack, v. t.

1. To kiss with a sharp noise; to buss.

2. To open, as the lips, with an inarticulate sound made by a quick
compression and separation of the parts of the mouth; to make a noise
with, as the lips, by separating them in the act of kissing or after
tasting.
Drinking off the cup, and smacking his lips with an air of ineffable
relish. Sir W. Scott.

3. To make a sharp noise by striking; to crack; as, to smack a whip.
"She smacks the silken thong." Young.

SMACKING
Smack"ing, n.

Defn: A sharp, quick noise; a smack.
Like the faint smacking of an after kiss. Dryden.

SMACKING
Smack"ing, a.

Defn: Making a sharp, brisk sound; hence, brisk; as, a smacking
breeze.

SMALL
Small, a. [Compar. Smaller; superl. Smallest.] Etym: [OE. small, AS.
sm$l; akin to D. smal narrow, OS. & OHG. smal small, G. schmal
narrow, Dan. & Sw. smal, Goth. smals small, Icel. smali smal cattle,
sheep, or goats; cf. Gr.

1. Having little size, compared with other things of the same kind;
little in quantity or degree; diminutive; not large or extended in
dimension; not great; not much; inconsiderable; as, a small man; a
small river.
To compare Great things with small. Milton.

2. Being of slight consequence; feeble in influence or importance;
unimportant; trivial; insignificant; as, a small fault; a small
business.

3. Envincing little worth or ability; not large-minded; -- sometimes,
in reproach, paltry; mean.
A true delineation of the smallest man is capable of interesting the
reatest man. Carlyle.

4. Not prolonged in duration; not extended in time; short; as, after
a small space. Shak.

5. Weak; slender; fine; gentle; soft; not loud. "A still, small
voice." 1 Kings xix. 12. Great and small,of all ranks or degrees; --
used especially of persons. "His quests, great and small." Chaucer.
 -- Small arms, muskets, rifles, pistols, etc., in distinction from
cannon.
 -- Small beer. See under Beer.
 -- Small coal. (a) Little coals of wood formerly used to light
fires. Gay. (b) Coal about the size of a hazelnut, separated from the
coarser parts by screening.
 -- Small craft (Naut.), a vessel, or vessels in general, of a small
size.
 -- Small fruits. See under Fruit.
 -- Small hand, a certain size of paper. See under Paper.
 -- Small hours. See under Hour.
 -- Small letter. (Print.), a lower-case letter. See Lower-case, and
Capital letter, under Capital, a.
 -- Small piece, a Scotch coin worth about 2 -- Small register. See
the Note under 1st Register, 7.
 -- Small stuff (Naut.), spun yarn, marline, and the smallest kinds
of rope. R. H. Dana, Jr.
 -- Small talk, light or trifling conversation; chitchat.
 -- Small wares (Com.), various small textile articles, as tapes,
braid, tringe, and the like. M`Culloch.

SMALL
Small, adv.

1. In or to small extent, quantity, or degree; little; slightly.
[Obs.] "I wept but small." Chaucer. "It small avails my mood." Shak.

2. Not loudly; faintly; timidly. [Obs. or Humorous]
You may speak as small as you will. Shak.

SMALL
Small, n.

1. The small or slender part of a thing; as, the small of the leg or
of the back.

2. pl.

Defn: Smallclothes. [Colloq.] Hood. Dickens.

3. pl.

Defn: Same as Little go. See under Little, a.

SMALL
Small, v. t.

Defn: To make little or less. [Obs.]

SMALLAGE
Small"age, n. Etym: [Small + F. ache smallage. See Ach parsley.]
(Bot.)

Defn: A biennial umbelliferous plant (Apium graveolens) native of the
seacoats of Europe and Asia. When deprived of its acrid and even
poisonous properties by cultivation, it becomes celery.

SMALLCLOTHES
Small"clothes`, n. pl.

Defn: A man's garment for the hips and thighs; breeches. See
Breeches.

SMALLISH
Small"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat small. G. W. Cable.

SMALLNESS
Small"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being small.

SMALLPOX
Small"pox`, n. Etym: [Small + pox, pocks.] (Med.)

Defn: A contagious, constitutional, febrile disease characterized by
a peculiar eruption; variola. The cutaneous eruption is at first a
collection of papules which become vesicles (first flat, subsequently
umbilicated) and then pustules, and finally thick crusts which slough
after a certain time, often leaving a pit, or scar.

SMALLS
Smalls, n. pl.

Defn: See Small, n., 2, 3.

SMALLSWORD
Small"sword`, n.

Defn: A light sword used for thrusting only; especially, the sword
worn by civilians of rank in the eighteenth century.

SMALLY
Smal"ly, adv.

Defn: In a small quantity or degree; with minuteness. [R.] Ascham.

SMALT
Smalt, n. Etym: [It. smalto, LL. smaltum; of Teutonic origin; cf.
OHG. smalz grease, butter, G. schmalz grease, OHG. smelzan to melt,
G. schmelzen. See Smelt, v. t., and cf. Amel, Enamel.]

Defn: A deep blue pigment or coloring material used in various arts.
It is a vitreous substance made of cobalt, potash, and calcined
quartz fused, and reduced to a powder.

SMALT-BLUE
Smalt"-blue`, a.

Defn: Deep blue, like smalt.

SMALTINE; SMALTITE
Smalt"ine, Smalt"ite, n. Etym: [See Smalt.] (Min.)

Defn: A tin-white or gray mineral of metallic luster. It is an
arsenide of cobalt, nickel, and iron. Called also speiskobalt.

SMARAGD
Smar"agd, n. Etym: [L. smaragdus. See Emerald.]

Defn: The emerald. [Obs.] Bale.

SMARAGDINE
Sma*rag"dine, a. Etym: [L. smaragdinus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to emerald; resembling emerald; of an emerald
green.

SMARAGDITE
Sma*rag"dite, n. Etym: [Cf. F. smaragdite; -- so called from its
emerald-green color. See Smaragd.] (Min.)

Defn: A green foliated kind of amphibole, observed in eclogite and
some varietis of gabbro.

SMART
Smart, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Smarted; p. pr. & vb. n. Smarting.] Etym:
[OE. smarten, AS. smeortan; akin to D. smarten, smerten, G.
schmerzen, OHG. smerzan, Dan. smerte, SW. smarta, D. smart, smert, a
pain, G. schmerz, Ohg. smerzo, and probably to L. mordere to bite;
cf. Gr. m to rub, crush. Cf. Morsel.]

1. To feel a lively, pungent local pain; -- said of some part of the
body as the seat of irritation; as, my finger smarts; these wounds
smart. Chaucer. Shak.

2. To feel a pungent pain of mind; to feel sharp pain or grief; to
suffer; to feel the sting of evil.
No creature smarts so little as a fool. Pope.
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it. Prov. xi. 15.

SMART
Smart, v. t.

Defn: To cause a smart in. "A goad that . . . smarts the flesh." T.
Adams.

SMART
Smart, n. Etym: [OE. smerte. See Smart, v. i.]

1. Quick, pungent, lively pain; a pricking local pain, as the pain
from puncture by nettles. "In pain's smart." Chaucer.

2. Severe, pungent pain of mind; pungent grief; as, the smart of
affliction.
To stand 'twixt us and our deserved smart. Milton.
Counsel mitigates the greatest smart. Spenser.

3. A fellow who affects smartness, briskness, and vivacity; a dandy.
[Slang] Fielding.

4. Smart money (see below). [Canf]

SMART
Smart, a. [Compar. Smarter; superl. Smartest.] Etym: [OE. smerte. See
Smart, v. i.]

1. Causing a smart; pungent; pricking; as, a smart stroke or taste.
How smart lash that speech doth give my conscience. Shak.

2. Keen; severe; poignant; as, smart pain.

3. Vigorous; sharp; severe. "Smart skirmishes, in which many fell."
Clarendon.

4. Accomplishing, or able to accomplish, results quickly; active;
sharp; clever. [Colloq.]

5. Efficient; vigorous; brilliant. "The stars shine smarter." Dryden.

6. Marked by acuteness or shrewdness; quick in suggestion or reply;
vivacious; witty; as, a smart reply; a smart saying.
Who, for the poor renown of being smart Would leave a sting within a
brother's heart Young.
A sentence or two, . . . which I thought very smart. Addison.

7. Pretentious; showy; spruce; as, a smart gown.

8. Brisk; fresh; as, a smart breeze. Smart money. (a) Money paid by a
person to buy himself off from some unpleasant engagement or some
painful situation. (b) (Mil.) Money allowed to soldiers or sailors,
in the English service, for wounds and injures received; also, a sum
paid by a recruit, previous to being sworn in, to procure his release
from service. (c) (Law) Vindictive or exemplary damages; damages
beyond a full compensation for the actual injury done. Burrill.
Greenleaf.
 -- Smart ticket, a certificate given to wounded seamen, entitling
them to smart money. [Eng.] Brande & C.

Syn.
 -- Pungent; poignant; sharp; tart; acute; quick; lively; brisk;
witty; clever; keen; dashy; showy.
 -- Smart, Clever. Smart has been much used in New England to
describe a person who is intelligent, vigorous, and active; as, a
smart young fellow; a smart workman, etc., conciding very nearly with
the English sense of clever. The nearest approach to this in England
is in such expressions as, he was smart (pungent or witty) in his
reply, etc.; but smart and smartness, when applied to persons, more
commonly refer to dress; as, a smart appearance; a smart gown, etc.

SMARTEN
Smart"en, v. t.

Defn: To make smart or spruce; -- usually with up. [Colloq.]
She had to go and smarten herself up somewhat. W. Black.

SMARTLE
Smar"tle, v. i.

Defn: To waste away. [Prov. Eng.]

SMARTLY
Smart"ly, adv.

Defn: In a smart manner.

SMARTNESS
Smart"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being smart.

SMARTWEED
Smart"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An acrid plant of the genus Polygonum (P. Hydropiper), which
produces smarting if applied where the skin is tender.

SMASH
Smash, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smashed (; p. pr. & vb. n. Smashing.]
Etym: [Cf. Sw. smisk a blow, stroke, smiska to strike, dial. Sw.
smaske to kiss with a noise, and E. smack a loud kiss, a slap.]

Defn: To break in pieces by violence; to dash to pieces; to crush.
Here everything is broken and smashed to pieces. Burke.

SMASH
Smash, v. i.

Defn: To break up, or to pieces suddenly, as the result of collision
or pressure.

SMASH
Smash, n.

1. A breaking or dashing to pieces; utter destruction; wreck.

2. Hence, bankruptcy. [Colloq.]

SMASHER
Smash"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, smashes or breaks things to pieces.

2. Anything very large or extraordinary. [Slang]

3. One who passes counterfeit coin. [Cant, Eng.]

SMATCH
Smatch, n. Etym: [OE. smach, smak. See Smack taste.]

Defn: Taste; tincture; smack. [Obs.]
Thy life hath had some smatch of honor in it. Shak.

SMATCH
Smatch, v. i.

Defn: To smack. [Obs.] Banister (1578).

SMATTER
Smat"ter, v. i. Etym: [OE. smateren to make a noise; cf. Sw. smattra
to clatter, to crackle, G. schmettern to dash, crash, to warble,
quaver.]

1. To talk superficially or ignorantly; to babble; to chatter.
Of state affairs you can not smatter. Swift.

2. To have a slight taste, or a slight, superficial knowledge, of
anything; to smack.

SMATTER
Smat"ter, v. t.

1. To talk superficially about.

2. To gain a slight taste of; to acquire a slight, superficial
knowledge of; to smack. Chaucer.

SMATTER
Smat"ter, n.

Defn: Superficial knowledge; a smattering.

SMATTERER
Smat"ter*er, n.

Defn: One who has only a slight, superficial knowledge; a sciolist.

SMATTERING
Smat"ter*ing, n.

Defn: A slight, superficial knowledge of something; sciolism.
I had a great desire, not able to attain to a superficial skill in
any, to have some smattering in all. Burton.

SMEAR
Smear, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smeared; p. pr. & vb. n. Smearing.] Etym:
[OE. smeren, smerien, AS. smierwan, smyrwan, fr. smeoru fat, grease;
akin to D. smeren, OHG. smirwen, G. schmieren, Icel. smyrja to
anoint. See Smear, n.]

1. To overspread with anything unctuous, viscous, or adhesive; to
daub; as, to smear anything with oil. "Smear the sleepy grooms with
blood." Shak.

2. To soil in any way; to contaminate; to pollute; to stain morally;
as, to be smeared with infamy. Shak.

SMEAR
Smear, n. Etym: [OE. smere,. smeoru fat, grease; akin to D. smeer, G.
schmeer, OHG. smero, Icel. smjor, Sw. & Dan. smor butter, Goth. smair
fatness, smarna dung; cf. Lith. smarsas fat. Cf. Smirch.]

1. A fat, oily substance; oinment. Johnson.

2. Hence, a spot made by, or as by, an unctuous or adhesive
substance; a blot or blotch; a daub; a stain.
Slow broke the morn, All damp and rolling vapor, with no sun, But in
its place a moving smear of light. Alexander Smith.

SMEARCASE
Smear"case`, n. [G. schmierkase; schmier grease (or schmieren to
smear) + kase cheese.]

Defn: Cottage cheese. [Local, U. S.]

SMEAR DAB
Smear" dab". (Zool.)

Defn: The sand fluke (b). [Prov. Eng.]

SMEARED
Smeared, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the color mark ings ill defined, as if rubbed; as, the
smeared dagger moth (Apatela oblinita).

SMEARY
Smear"y, a.

Defn: Tending to smear or soil; adhesive; viscous. Rowe.

SMEATH
Smeath, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The smew. [Prov. Eng.]

SMECTITE
Smec"tite, n. Etym: [G. smectit, fr. Gr. (Min.)

Defn: A hydrous silicate of alumina, of a greenish color, which, in
certain states of humidity, appears transparent and almost
gelatinous.

SMEE
Smee, n. Etym: [Cf. Smew.] (Zool.)
(a) The pintail duck.
(b) The widgeon.
(c) The poachard.
(d) The smew. [Prov. Eng.]

SMEETH
Smeeth, v. t. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: To smoke; to blacken with smoke; to rub with soot. [Obs.]

SMEETH
Smeeth, v. t. Etym: [OE. sme, AS. sm. See Smooth.]

Defn: To smooth. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SMEGMA
Smeg"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: The matter secreted by any of the sebaceous glands.
Specifically:
(a) The soapy substance covering the skin of newborn infants.
(b) The cheesy, sebaceous matter which collects between the glans
penis and the foreskin.

SMEGMATIC
Smeg*mat"ic, a.

Defn: Being of the nature of soap; soapy; cleansing; detersive.

SMEIR
Smeir, n.

Defn: A salt glaze on pottery, made by adding common salt to an
earthenware glaze.

SMELL
Smell, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smelled, Smelt (; p. pr. & vb. n.
Smelling.] Etym: [OE. smellen, smillen, smullen; cf. LG. smellen,
smelen, smolen, schmelen, to smoke, to reek, D. smeulen to smolder,
and E. smolder. Cf. Smell, n.]

1. To perceive by the olfactory nerves, or organs of smell; to have a
sensation of, excited through the nasal organs when affected by the
appropriate materials or qualities; to obtain the scent of; as, to
smell a rose; to smell perfumes.

2. To detect or perceive, as if by the sense of smell; to scent out;
-- often with out. "I smell a device." Shak.
Can you smell him out by that Shak.

3. To give heed to. [Obs.]
From that time forward I began to smellthe Word of God, and forsook
the school doctors. Latimer.
To smell a rat, to have a sense of something wrong, not clearly
evident; to have reason for suspicion. [Colloq.] -- To smell out, to
find out by sagacity. [Colloq.]

SMELL
Smell, v. i.

1. To affect the olfactory nerves; to have an odor or scent; -- often
followed by of; as, to smell of smoke, or of musk.

2. To have a particular tincture or smack of any quality; to savor;
as, a report smells of calumny.
Praises in an enemy are superfluous, or smell of craft. Milton.

3. To exercise the sense of smell. Ex. xxx. 38.

4. To exercise sagacity. Shak.

SMELL
Smell, n. Etym: [OE. smel, smil, smul, smeol. See Smell, v. t.]
(Physiol.)

1. The sense or faculty by which certain qualities of bodies are
perceived through the instrumentally of the olfactory nerves. See
Sense.

2. The quality of any thing or substance, or emanation therefrom,
which affects the olfactory organs; odor; scent; fragrance; perfume;
as, the smell of mint.
Breathing the smell of field and grove. Milton.
That which, above all others, yields the sweetest smell in the air,
is the violent. Bacon.

Syn.
 -- Scent; odor; perfume; fragrance.

SMELLER
Smell"er, n.

1. One who smells, or perceives by the sense of smell; one who gives
out smell.

2. The nose. [Pugilists' Slang]

SMELL-FEAST
Smell"-feast`, n.

1. One who is apt to find and frequent good tables; a parasite; a
sponger.
The epicure and the smell-feast. South.

2. A feast at which the guests are supposed to feed upon the odors
only of the viands.

SMELLING
Smell"ing, n.

1. The act of one who smells.

2. The sense by which odors are perceived; the sense of smell. Locke.
Smelling bottle, a small bottle filled with something suited to
stimulate the sense of smell, or to remove faintness, as spirits of
ammonia.

SMELLING SALTS
Smell"ing salts.

Defn: An aromatic preparation of carbonate of ammonia and, often,
some scent, to avoid or relieve faintness, headache, or the like.

SMELL-LESS
Smell"-less, a.

Defn: Destitute of smell; having no odor.
Daisies smell-less, yet most quaint. Beau & Fl.

SMELT
Smelt, imp. & p. p.

Defn: of Smell.

SMELT
Smelt, n. Etym: [AS. smelt, smylt; akin to Dan. smelt.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of small silvery salmonoid fishes
of the genus Osmerus and allied genera, which ascend rivers to spawn,
and sometimes become landlocked in lakes. They are esteemed as food,
and have a peculiar odor and taste.

Note: The most important species are the European smelt (Osmerus
eperlans) (called also eperlan, sparling, and spirling), the Eastern
American smelt (O. mordax), the California smelt (O. thalichthys),
and the surf smelt (Hypomesus olidus). The name is loosely applied to
various other small fishes, as the lant, the California tomcod, the
spawn eater, the silverside.

2. Fig.: A gull; a simpleton. [Obs.] eau & Fl. Sand smelt (Zool.),
the silverside.

SMELT
Smelt, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smelted; p. pr. & vb. n. Smelting.] Etym:
[Of foreign origin; cf. Sw. smalta, D. smelten, Dan. smelte, Icel.
smelta, G. schmelzen OHG. smelzan, smelzen; probably akin to Gr.
Enamel, Melt, Mute, v. i., Smalt.] (Metal.)

Defn: To melt or fuse, as, ore, for the purpose of separating and
refining the metal; hence, to reduce; to refine; to flux or scorify;
as, to smelt tin.

SMELTER
Smelt"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, smelts.

SMELTERY
Smelt"er*y, n.

Defn: A house or place for smelting.

SMELTIE
Smelt"ie, n.

Defn: A fish, the bib. [Prov. Eng.]

SMELTING
Smelt"ing,

Defn: a. & n. from Smelt. Smelting furnace (Metal.), a furnace in
which ores are smelted or reduced.

SMERK
Smerk, n. & v.

Defn: See Smirk.

SMERK; SMERKY
Smerk, Smerk"y, a.

Defn: Smart; jaunty; spruce. See Smirk, a. [Obs.]
So smerk, so smooth, his pricked ears. Spenser.

SMERLIN
Smer"lin, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A small loach.

SMEW
Smew, n. Etym: [Perhaps for ice-mew.] (Zool.)
(a) small European merganser (Mergus albellus) which has a white
crest; -- called also smee, smee duck, white merganser, and white
nun.
(b) The hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.]

SMICKER
Smick"er, v. i. Etym: [Akin to Sw. smickra to flatter, Dan. smigre,
and perhaps to G. schmeicheln, and E. smile. Cf. Smicker, a.]

Defn: To look amorously or wantonly; to smirk.

SMICKER
Smick"er, a. Etym: [AS. smicere tasteful, trim. See Smicker, v.]

Defn: Amorous; wanton; gay; spruce. [Obs.]

SMICKERING
Smick"er*ing, n.

Defn: Amorous glance or inclination. [Obs.] "A smickering to our
young lady." Dryden.

SMICKET
Smick"et, n. Etym: [Dim. of smock.]

Defn: A woman's under-garment; a smock. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.] Johnson.

SMICKLY
Smick"ly, adv.

Defn: Smugly; finically. [Obs.] Ford.

SMIDDY
Smid"dy, n. Etym: [See Smithy.]

Defn: A smithy. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SMIFT
Smift, n.

Defn: A match for firing a charge of powder, as in blasting; a fuse.

SMIGHT
Smight, v. t.

Defn: To smite. [Obs.] Spenser.

SMILACIN
Smil"a*cin, n. Etym: [Cf. F. similacine. See Smilax.] (Chem.)

Defn: See Parrilin.

SMILAX
Smi"lax, n. Etym: [L., bindweed, Gr. (Bot.)
(a) A genus of perennial climbing plants, usually with a prickly
woody stem; green brier, or cat brier. The rootstocks of certain
species are the source of the medicine called sarsaparilla.
(b) A delicate trailing plant (Myrsiphyllum asparagoides) much used
for decoration. It is a native of the Cape of Good Hope.

SMILE
Smile, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Smiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Smiling.] Etym:
[OE. smilen; akin to Dan. smile, Sw. smila, MHG. smielen, smieren, L.
mirari to wonder at, Skr. smi to smile; and probably to E. smicker.
sq. root173. Cf. Admire, Marvel, Smirk.]

1. To express amusement, pleasure, moderate joy, or love and
kindness, by the features of the face; to laugh silently.
He doth nothing but frown . . . He hears merry tales and smiles not.
Shak.
She led to see the doughty hero slain. Pope.
When last I saw thy young blue eyes, they smiled. Byron.

2. To express slight contempt by a look implying sarcasm or pity; to
sneer.
'T was what I said to Craggs and Child, Who praised my modesty, and
smiled. Pope.

3. To look gay and joyous; to have an appearance suited to excite
joy; as, smiling spring; smilimg plenty.
The desert smiled, And paradise was opened in the wild. Pope.

4. To be propitious or favorable; to favor; to countenance; -- often
with on; as, to smile on one's labors.

SMILE
Smile, v. t.

1. To express by a smile; as, to smile consent; to smile a welcome to
visitors.

2. To affect in a certain way with a smile. [R.]
And sharply smile prevailing folly dead. Young.

SMILE
Smile, n. Etym: [CF. Dan. smiil, Sw. smil. See Smile, v. i.]

1. The act of smiling; a peculiar change or brightening of the face,
which expresses pleasure, moderate joy, mirth, approbation, or
kindness; -- opposed to frown.
Sweet intercourse Of looks and smiles: for smiles from reason flow.
Milton.

2. A somewhat similar expression of countenance, indicative of
satisfaction combined with malevolent feelings, as contempt, scorn,
etc; as, a scornful smile.

3. Favor; countenance; propitiousness; as, the smiles of Providence.
"The smile of heaven." Shak.

4. Gay or joyous appearance; as, the smiles of spring.
The brightness of their [the flowers'] smile was gone. Bryant.

SMILELESS
Smile"less, a.

Defn: Not having a smile.

SMILER
Smil"er, n.

Defn: One who smiles. Tennyson.

SMILET
Smil"et, n.

Defn: A little smile. [R.]
Those happy smilets That played on her ripe lip. Shak.

SMILINGLY
Smil"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a smiling manner. Shak.

SMILINGNESS
Smil"ing*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being smiling.
And made despair a smilingness assume. Byron.

SMILODON
Smi"lo*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Paleon.)

Defn: An extinct genus of saber-toothed tigers. See Mach.

SMILT
Smilt, v. i.

Defn: To melt. [Obs.] Mortimer.

SMINTHURID
Smin*thu"rid, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous small species of springtails, of the family
Sminthurid, -- usually found on flowers. See Illust. under
Collembola.

SMIRCH
Smirch, v. t. Etym: [From the root of smear.]

Defn: To smear with something which stains, or makes dirty; to
smutch; to begrime; to soil; to sully.
I'll . . . with a kind of umber smirch my face. Shak.

SMIRCH
Smirch, n.

Defn: A smutch; a dirty stain.

SMIRK
Smirk, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Smirked; p. pr. & vb. n. Smirking.] Etym:
[OE. smirken, ASS. smercian, smearcian; cf. MHG. smieren, smielen, to
smile. See Smile, v. i.]

Defn: To smile in an affected or conceited manner; to smile with
affected complaisance; to simper.

SMIRK
Smirk, n.

Defn: A forced or affected smile; a simper.
The bride, all smirk and blush, had just entered. Sir W. Scott.

SMIRK
Smirk, a.

Defn: Nice,; smart; spruce; affected; simpering. "So smirk, so
smooth." Spenser.

SMIRKINGLY
Smirk"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: With smirking; with a smirk.

SMIRKY
Smirk"y, a.

Defn: Smirk; smirking.

SMIT
Smit, rare

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Smite. Spenser.
Smit with the beauty of so fair a scene. Cowper.

SMIT
Smit, obs.

Defn: 3d. pers. sing. pres. of Smite. Chaucer.

SMITE
Smite, v. t. [imp. Smoth, rarely Smit (; p. p. Smitten, rarely Smit,
or Smote; p. pr. & vb. n. Smiting.] Etym: [AS. smitan to smite, to
soil, pollute; akin to OFries. smita to smite, LG. smiten, D.
smijten, G. schmeissen, OHG. smizan to smear, stroke, OSw. & dial.
Sw. smita to smite, Dan. smiide to throw, Goth. bismeitan, to anoint,
besmear; cf. Skr. m to be fat. The original sense seems to have been,
to daub on, to smear. Cf. Smut.]

1. To strike; to inflict a blow upon with the hand, or with any
instrument held in the hand, or with a missile thrown by the hand;
as, to smite with the fist, with a rod, sword, spear, or stone.
Whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other
also. Matt. v. 39.
And David . . . took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the
Philistine in his forehead. 1 Sam. xvii. 49.

2. To cause to strike; to use as an instrument in striking or
hurling.
Profpesy, and smite thine hands together. Ezek. xxi. 14.
Saul . . . smote the javelin into the wall. 1 Sam. xix. 10.

3. To destroy the life of by beating, or by weapons of any kind; to
slay by a blow; to kill; as, to smite one with the sword, or with an
arrow or other instrument.

4. To put to rout in battle; to overthrow by war.

5. To blast; to destroy the life or vigor of, as by a stroke or by
some visitation.
The flax and the barely was smitten. Ex. ix. 31.

6. To afflict; to chasten; to punish.
Let us not mistake God's goodness, nor imagine, because he smites us,
that we are forsaken by him. Wake.

7. To strike or affect with passion, as love or fear.
The charms that smite the simple heart. Pope.
Smith with the love of sister arts we came. Pope.
To smite off, to cut off.
 -- To smite out, to knock out, as a tooth. Exod,xxi.27.
 -- To smite with the tongue, to reproach or upbarid; to revile.
[Obs.] Jer. xviii. 18.

SMITE
Smite, v. i.

Defn: To strike; to collide; to beat. [Archaic]
The heart meleth, and the knees smite together. Nah. ii. 10.

SMITE
Smite, n.

Defn: The act of smiting; a blow.

SMITER
Smit"er, n.

Defn: One who smites.
I give my back to the smiters. Isa. l. 6.

SMITH
Smith, n. Etym: [AS. smi; akin to D. smid, G. schmied, OHG. smid,
Icel. smi, Dan. & Sw. smed, Goth. smi (in comp.); cf. Gr.

1. One who forgess with the hammer; one who works in metals; as, a
blacksmith, goldsmith, silversmith, and the like. Piers Plowman.
Nor yet the smith hath learned to form a sword. Tate.

2. One who makes or effects anything. [R.] Dryden.

SMITH
Smith, v. t. Etym: [AS. smi. See Smith, n.]

Defn: To beat into shape; to fprge. [Obs.] Chaucer.
What smith that any [weapon] smitheth. Piers Plowman.

SMITHCRAFT
Smith"craft`, n.

Defn: The art or occupation of a smith; smithing. [R.] Sir W.
Raleigh.

SMITHER
Smith"er, n.

1. Light, fine rain. [Prov. Eng.]

2. pl.

Defn: Fragments; atoms; finders. [Prov. Eng.]
Smash the bottle to smithers. Tennyson.

SMITHEREENS
Smith`er*eens", n. pl.

Defn: Fragments; atoms; smithers. [Colloq.] W. Black.

SMITHERY
Smith"er*y, n.; pl. -ies (.

1. The workshop of a smith; a smithy or stithy.

2. Work done by a smith; smithing.
The din of all his smithery may some time or other possibly wake this
noble duke. Burke.

SMITHING
Smith"ing, n.

Defn: The act or art of working or forging metals, as iron, into any
desired shape. Moxon.

SMITHSONIAN
Smith*so"ni*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Englishman J.L.M. Smithson, or to the
national institution of learning which he endowed at Washington,
D.C.; as, the Smithsonian Institution; Smithsonian Reports.
 -- n.

Defn: The Smithsonian Institution.

SMITHSONITE
Smith"son*ite, n. Etym: [See Smithsonian.] (Min.)

Defn: Native zinc carbonate. It generally occurs in stalactitic,
reniform, or botryoidal shapes, of a white to gray, green, or brown
color. See Note under Calamine.

SMITHY
Smith"y, n. Etym: [AS. smi, fr. smi; akin to D. smidse, smids, OHG.
smitta, G. schmiede, Icel. smi. See Smith, n.]

Defn: The workshop of a smith, esp. a blacksmith; a smithery; a
stithy. [Written also smiddy.]
Under a spreading chestnut tree The village smithy stands. Lonfellow.

SMITT
Smitt, n. Etym: [CF. G. schmitz a stain, schmitzen besmear. See
Smite, v. t.]

Defn: Fine clay or ocher made up into balls, used for marking sheep.
[Eng.] Woodsward.

SMITTEN
Smit"ten,

Defn: p. p. of Smite.

SMITTLE
Smit"tle, v. t. Etym: [Freq. fr. OE. smitten to befoul. See Smite, v.
t.]

Defn: To infect. [Prov. Eng.]

SMITTLE
Smit"tle, n.

Defn: Infection. [Pov. Eng.] Wright.

SMITTLE; SMITTLISH
Smit"tle, Smit"tlish, a.

Defn: Infectious; catching. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] H. Kingsley.

SMOCK
Smock, n. Etym: [AS. smoc; akin to OHG. smocho, Icel. smokkr, and
from the root of AS. sm to creep, akin to G. schmiegen to cling to,
press close. MHG. smiegen, Icel. smj to creep through, to put on a
garment which has a hole to put the head through; cf. Lith. smukti to
glide. Cf. Smug, Smuggle.]

1. A woman's under-garment; a shift; a chemise.
In her smock, with head and foot all bare. Chaucer.

2. A blouse; a smoock frock. Carlyle.

SMOCK
Smock, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a smock; resembling a smock; hence, of or
pertaining to a woman. Smock mill, a windmill of which only the cap
turns round to meet the wind, in distinction from a post mill, whose
whole building turns on a post.
 -- Smock race, a race run by women for the prize of a smock. [Prov.
Eng.]

SMOCK
Smock, v. t.

Defn: To provide with, or clothe in, a smock or a smock frock.
Tennyson.

SMOCK-FACED
Smock"-faced`, a.

Defn: Having a feminine countenance or complexion; smooth-faced;
girlish. Fenton.

SMOCK FROCK
Smock" frock`.

Defn: A coarse frock, or shirt, worn over the other dress, as by farm
laborers. Macaulay.

SMOCKLESS
Smock"less, a.

Defn: Wanting a smock. Chaucer.

SMOKABLE
Smok"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being smoked; suitable or ready to be smoked; as,
smokable tobacco.

SMOKE
Smoke, n. Etym: [AS. smoca, fr. smeocan to smoke; akin to LG. & D.
smook smoke, Dan. smog, G. schmauch, and perh. to Gr. smaugti to
choke.]

1. The visible exhalation, vapor, or substance that escapes, or
expelled, from a burning body, especially from burning vegetable
matter, as wood, coal, peat, or the like.

Note: The gases of hydrocarbons, raised to a red heat or thereabouts,
without a mixture of air enough to produce combustion, disengage
their carbon in a fine powder, forming smoke. The disengaged carbon
when deposited on solid bodies is soot.

2. That which resembles smoke; a vapor; a mist.

3. Anything unsubstantial, as idle talk. Shak.

4. The act of smoking, esp. of smoking tobacco; as, to have a smoke.
[Colloq.]

Note: Smoke is sometimes joined with other word. forming self-
explaining compounds; as, smoke-consuming, smoke-dried, smoke-
stained, etc. Smoke arch, the smoke box of a locomotive.
 -- Smoke ball (Mil.), a ball or case containing a composition which,
when it burns, sends forth thick smoke.
 -- Smoke black, lampblack. [Obs.] -- Smoke board, a board suspended
before a fireplace to prevent the smoke from coming out into the
room.
 -- Smoke box, a chamber in a boiler, where the smoke, etc., from the
furnace is collected before going out at the chimney.
 -- Smoke sail (Naut.), a small sail in the lee of the galley
stovepipe, to prevent the smoke from annoying people on deck.
 -- Smoke tree (Bot.), a shrub (Rhus Cotinus) in which the flowers
are mostly abortive and the panicles transformed into tangles of
plumose pedicels looking like wreaths of smoke.
 -- To end in smoke, to burned; hence, to be destroyed or ruined;
figuratively, to come to nothing.

Syn.
 -- Fume; reek; vapor.

SMOKE
Smoke, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Smoked; p. pr. & vb n. Smoking.] Etym:
[AS. smocian; akin to D. smoken, G. schmauchen, Dan. smoge. See
Smoke, n.]

1. To emit smoke; to throw off volatile matter in the form of vapor
or exhalation; to reek.
Hard by a cottage chimney smokes. Milton.

2. Hence, to burn; to be kindled; to rage.
The anger of the Lord and his jealousy shall smoke agains. that man.
Deut. xxix. 20.

3. To raise a dust or smoke by rapid motion.
Proud of his steeds, he smokes along the field. Dryden.

4. To draw into the mouth the smoke of tobacco burning in a pipe or
in the form of a cigar, cigarette, etc.; to habitually use tobacco in
this manner.

5. To suffer severely; to be punished.
Some of you shall smoke for it in Rome. Shak.

SMOKE
Smoke, v. t.

1. To apply smoke to; to hang in smoke; to disinfect, to cure, etc.,
by smoke; as, to smoke or fumigate infected clothing; to smoke beef
or hams for preservation.

2. To fill or scent with smoke; hence, to fill with incense; to
perfume. "Smoking the temple." Chaucer.

3. To smell out; to hunt out; to find out; to detect.
I alone Smoked his true person, talked with him. Chapman.
He was first smoked by the old Lord Lafeu. Shak.
Upon that . . . I began to smoke that they were a parcel of mummers.
Addison.

4. To ridicule to the face; to quiz. [Old Slang]

5. To inhale and puff out the smoke of, as tobacco; to burn or use in
smoking; as, to smoke a pipe or a cigar.

6. To subject to the operation of smoke, for the purpose of annoying
or driving out; -- often with out; as, to smoke a woodchuck out of
his burrow.

SMOKE BALL
Smoke ball.

Defn: Same as Puffball.

SMOKE-DRY
Smoke"-dry`, v. t.

Defn: To dry by or in smoke.

SMOKEHOUSE
Smoke"house`, n.

Defn: A building where meat or fish is cured by subjecting it to a
dense smoke.

SMOKEJACK
Smoke"jack`, n.

Defn: A contrivance for turning a spit by means of a fly or wheel
moved by the current of ascending air in a chimney.

SMOKELESS
Smoke"less, a.

Defn: Making or having no smoke. "Smokeless towers." Pope.

SMOKELESS POWDER
Smoke"less pow"der.

Defn: A high-explosive gunpowder whose explosion produces little, if
any, smoke.

SMOKER
Smok"er, n.

1. One who dries or preserves by smoke.

2. One who smokes tobacco or the like.

3. A smoking car or compartment. [U. S.]

SMOKESTACK
Smoke"stack`, n.

Defn: A chimney; esp., a pipe serving as a chimney, as the pipe which
carries off the smoke of a locomotive, the funnel of a steam vessel,
etc.

SMOKILY
Smok"i*ly, adv.

Defn: In a smoky manner.

SMOKINESS
Smok"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being smoky.

SMOKING
Smok"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Smoke. Smoking bean (Bot.), the long pod of the catalpa,
or Indian-bean tree, often smoked by boys as a substitute for cigars.
 -- Smoking car, a railway car carriage reserved for the use of
passengers who smoke tobacco.

SMOKY
Smok"y, a. [Compar. Smokier; superl. Smokiest.]

1. Emitting smoke, esp. in large quantities or in an offensive
manner; fumid; as, smoky fires.

2. Having the appearance or nature of smoke; as, a smoky fog.
"Unlustrous as the smoky light." Shak.

3. Filled with smoke, or with a vapor resembling smoke; thick; as, a
smoky atmosphere.

4. Subject to be filled with smoke from chimneys or fireplace; as, a
smoky house.

5. Tarnished with smoke; noisome with smoke; as, smoky rafters; smoky
cells.

6. Suspicious; open to suspicion. [Obs.] Foote. Smoky quartz (Min.),
a variety of quartz crystal of a pale to dark smoky-brown color. See
Quartz.

SMOLDER; SMOULDER
Smol"der, Smoul"der, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Smoldered or Smouldered; p.
pr. & vb. n. Smoldering or Smouldering.] Etym: [OE. smolderen; cf.
Prov. G. smolen, smelen, D. smeulen. Cf. Smell.]

1. To burn and smoke without flame; to waste away by a slow and
supressed combustion.
The smoldering dust did round about him smoke. Spenser.

2. To exist in a state of suppressed or smothered activity; to burn
inwardly; as, a smoldering feud.

SMOLDER; SMOULDER
Smol"der, Smoul"der, v. t.

Defn: To smother; to suffocate; to choke. [Obs.] Holinshed.
Palsgrave.

SMOLDER; SMOULDER
Smol"der, Smoul"der, n.

Defn: Smoke; smother. [Obs.]
The smolder stops our nose with stench. Gascoigne.

SMOLDERING; SMOULDERING
Smol"der*ing, Smoul"der*ing, a.

Defn: Being in a state of suppressed activity; quiet but not dead.
Some evil chance Will make the smoldering scandal break and blaze.
Tennyson.

SMOLDERINGNESS; SMOULDERINGNESS
Smol"der*ing*ness, Smoul"der*ing*ness, n.

Defn: The state of smoldering.

SMOLDRY; SMOULDRY
Smol"dry, Smoul"dry, a.

Defn: Smoldering; suffocating; smothery. [Obs.]
A flaming fire ymixt with smoldry smoke. Spenser.

SMOLT
Smolt, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A young salmon two or three years old, when it has acquired its
silvery color.

SMOOCH
Smooch, v. t.

Defn: See Smutch.

SMOOR
Smoor, v. t. Etym: [AS. smorian; akin to D. & LG. smoren, G. schmoren
to stew. Cf. Smother.]

Defn: To suffocate or smother. [Written also smore.] [Obs. or Prov.
Eng. & Scot.] Sir T. More. Burns.

SMOOTH
Smooth, a. [Compar. Smoother; superl. Smoothest.] Etym: [OE. smothe,
smethe, AS. smeedhe, smoeedte, where e, oe, come from an older o; cf.
LG. smode, smoe, smodig; of uncertain origin.]

1. Having an even surface, or a surface so even that no roughness or
points can be perceived by the touch; not rough; as, smooth glass;
smooth porcelain. Chaucer.
The outlines must be smooth, imperceptible to the touch, and even,
without eminence or cavities. Dryden.

2. Evenly spread or arranged; sleek; as, smooth hair.

3. Gently flowing; moving equably; not ruffled or obstructed; as, a
smooth stream.

4. Flowing or uttered without check, obstruction, or hesitation; not
harsh; voluble; even; fluent.
The only smooth poet of those times. Milton.
Waller was smooth; but Dryden taught to join The varying verse, the
full-resounding line. Pope.
When sage Minerva rose, From her sweet lips smooth elocution flows.
Gay.

5. Bland; mild; smoothing; fattering.
This smooth discourse and mild behavior oft Conceal a traitor.
Addison.

6. (Mech. & Physics)

Defn: Causing no resistance to a body sliding along its surface;
frictionless.

Note: Smooth is often used in the formation of selfexplaining
compounds; as, smooth-bodied, smooth-browed, smooth-combed, smooth-
faced, smooth-finished, smooth-gliding, smooth-grained, smooth-
leaved, smooth-sliding, smooth-speaking, smooth-woven, and the like.

Syn.
 -- Even; plain; level; flat; polished; glossy; sleek; soft; bland;
mild; soothing; voluble; flattering; adulatory; deceptive.

SMOOTH
Smooth, adv.

Defn: Smoothly. Chaucer.
Smooth runs the water where the brook is deep. Shak.

SMOOTH
Smooth, n.

1. The act of making smooth; a stroke which smooths. Thackeray.

2. That which is smooth; the smooth part of anything. "The smooth of
his neck." Gen. xxvii. 16.

SMOOTH
Smooth, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smoothed (smoothd); p. pr. & vb. n.
Smoothing.] Etym: [OE. smothen, smethen, AS. smeedhian; cf. LG.
smoden. See Smooth, a.]

Defn: To make smooth; to make even on the surface by any means; as,
to smooth a board with a plane; to smooth cloth with an iron.
Specifically: --
(a) To free from obstruction; to make easy.
Thou, Abelard! the last sad office pay, And smooth my passage to the
realms of day. Pope.

(b) To free from harshness; to make flowing.
In their motions harmony divine So smooths her charming tones that
God's own ear Listens delighted. Milton.

(c) To palliate; to gloze; as, to smooth over a fault.
(d) To give a smooth or calm appearance to.
Each perturbation smoothed with outward calm. Milton.

(e) To ease; to regulate. Dryden.

SMOOTH
Smooth, v. i.

Defn: To flatter; to use blandishment.
Because I can not flatter and speak fair, Smile in men's faces,
smooth, deceive and cog. Shak.

SMOOTHBORE
Smooth"bore`, a. (Gun.)

Defn: Having a bore of perfectly smooth surface; -- distinguished
from rifled.
 -- n.

Defn: A smoothbore firearm.

SMOOTH-CHINNED
Smooth"-chinned`, a.

Defn: Having a smooth chin; beardless. Drayton.

SMOOTHEN
Smooth"en, v. t.

Defn: To make smooth. [Obs.]

SMOOTHER
Smooth"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, smooths.

SMOOTHING
Smooth"ing, a. & n.

Defn: fr. Smooth, v. Smoothing iron, an iron instrument with a
polished face, for smoothing clothes; a sadiron; a flatiron.
 -- Smoothing plane, a short, finely set plane, for smoothing and
finishing work.

SMOOTHLY
Smooth"ly, adv.

Defn: In a smooth manner.

SMOOTHNESS
Smooth"ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being smooth.

SMOOTH-SPOKEN
Smooth"-spo`ken, a.

Defn: Speaking smoothly; plausible; flattering; smooth-tongued.

SMOOTH-TONGUED
Smooth"-tongued`, a.

Defn: Having a smooth tongue; plausible; flattering.

SMORE
Smore, v. t.

Defn: To smother. See Smoor. [Obs.]
Some dying vomit blood, and some were smored. Du Bartas.

SMORZANDO; SMORSATO
Smor*zan"do, Smor*sa"to, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Growing gradually fainter and softer; dying away; morendo.

SMOTE
Smote,

Defn: imp. (and rare p. p.) of Smite.

SMOTERLICH
Smo"ter*lich, a. Etym: [CF. Smut.]

Defn: Dirty foul. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SMOTHER
Smoth"er, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smothered; p. pr. & vb. n. Smothering.]
Etym: [OE. smotheren; akin to E. smoor. See Smoor.]

1. To destroy the life of by suffocation; to deprive of the air
necessary for life; to cover up closely so as to prevent breathing;
to suffocate; as, to smother a child.

2. To affect as by suffocation; to stife; to deprive of air by a
thick covering, as of ashes, of smoke, or the like; as, to smother a
fire.

3. Hence, to repress the action of; to cover from public view; to
suppress; to conceal; as, to smother one's displeasure.

SMOTHER
Smoth"er, v. i.

1. To be suffocated or stifled.

2. To burn slowly, without sufficient air; to smolder.

SMOTHER
Smoth"er, n. Etym: [OE. smorther. See Smother, v. t.]

1. Stifling smoke; thick dust. Shak.

2. A state of suppression. [Obs.]
Not to keep their suspicions in smother. Bacon.
Smother fly (Zool.), an aphid.

SMOTHERED MATE
Smoth"ered mate. (Chess)

Defn: Checkmate given when movement of the king is completely
obstructed by his own men.

SMOTHERINESS
Smoth"er*i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being smothery.

SMOTHERINGLY
Smoth"er*ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a smothering manner.

SMOTHERY
Smoth"er*y, a.

Defn: Tending to smother; stifling.

SMOUCH
Smouch, v. t. Etym: [Akin to smack.]

Defn: To kiss closely. [Obs.] P. Stubbes.

SMOUCH
Smouch, v. t. Etym: [See Smutch.]

Defn: To smutch; to soil; as, to smouch the face.

SMOUCH
Smouch, n.

Defn: A dark soil or stain; a smutch.

SMOULDER
Smoul"der, v. i.

Defn: See Smolder.

SMOULDRY
Smoul"dry, a.

Defn: See Smoldry.

SMUDGE
Smudge, n. Etym: [Cf. Dan. smuds smut, E. smutch, or smoke.]

1. A suffocating smoke. Grose.

2. A heap of damp combustibles partially ignited and burning slowly,
placed on the windward side of a house, tent, or the like, in order,
by the thick smoke, to keep off mosquitoes or other insects. [U. S.]
Bartlett.

3. That which is smeared upon anything; a stain; a blot; a smutch; a
smear.

SMUDGE
Smudge, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smudged; p. pr. & vb. n. Smudging.]

1. To stifle or smother with smoke; to smoke by means of a smudge.

2. To smear; to smutch; to soil; to blacken with smoke.

SMUDGINESS
Smudg"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being smudged, soiled, or blurred. C.
A. Young.

SMUG
Smug, a. Etym: [Of. Scand. or Low German origin; cf. LG. smuck, G.
schmuck, Dan. smuk, OSw. smuck, smock, and E. smock, smuggle; cf. G.
schmuck ornament. See Smock.]

Defn: Studiously neat or nice, especially in dress; spruce;
affectedly precise; smooth and prim.
They be so smug and smooth. Robynson (More's Utopia).
The smug and scanty draperies of his style. De Quincey.
A young, smug, handsome holiness has no fellow. Beau & Fl.

SMUG
Smug, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smugged; p. pr. & vb. n. Smugging.]

Defn: To make smug, or spruce. [Obs.]
Thus said, he smugged his beard, and stroked up fair. Dryton.

SMUGGLE
Smug"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smuggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Smuggling.]
Etym: [Of Low German or Scand. origin; cf. LG. smuggeln, D.
smokkelen, G. schmuggeln, Dan. smugle, Sw. smyga to introduce or
convey secretly, Dan. i smug secretly, D. smuigen to eat in secret,
AS. smgan to creep. See Smock.]

1. To import or export secretly, contrary to the law; to import or
export without paying the duties imposed by law; as, to smuggle lace.

2. Fig.: To convey or introduce clandestinely.

SMUGGLE
Smug"gle, v. i.

Defn: To import or export in violation of the customs laws.

SMUGGLER
Smug"gler, n.

1. One who smuggles.

2. A vessel employed in smuggling.

SMUGLY
Smug"ly, adv.

Defn: In a smug manner. [R.] Gay.

SMUGNESS
Smug"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being smug.

SMUT
Smut, n. Etym: [Akin to Sw. smuts, Dan. smuds, MHG. smuz, G. schmutz,
D. smet a spot or stain, smoddig, smodsig, smodderig, dirty,
smodderen to smut; and probably to E. smite. See Smite, v. t., and
cf. Smitt, Smutch.]

1. Foul matter, like soot or coal dust; also, a spot or soil made by
such matter.

2. (Mining)

Defn: Bad, soft coal, containing much earthy matter, found in the
immediate locality of faults.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: An affection of cereal grains producing a swelling which is at
length resolved into a powdery sooty mass. It is caused by parasitic
fungi of the genus Ustilago. Ustilago segetum, or U. Carbo, is the
commonest kind; that of Indian corn is Ustilago maydis.

4. Obscene language; ribaldry; obscenity.
He does not stand upon decency . . . but will talk smut, though a
priest and his mother be in the room. Addison.
Smut mill, a machine for cleansing grain from smut.

SMUT
Smut, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smutted; p. pr. & vb. n. Smutting.]

1. To stain or mark with smut; to blacken with coal, soot, or other
dirty substance.

2. To taint with mildew, as grain. Bacon.

3. To blacken; to sully or taint; to tarnish.

4. To clear of smut; as, to smut grain for the mill.

SMUT
Smut, v. i.

1. To gather smut; to be converted into smut; to become smutted.
Mortimer.

2. To give off smut; to crock.

SMUTCH
Smutch, n. Etym: [Prob. for smuts. See Smut, n.]

Defn: A stain; a dirty spot. B. Jonson.

SMUTCH
Smutch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Smutched; p. pr. & vb. n. Smutching.]

Defn: To blacken with smoke, soot, or coal. [Written also smooch.] B.
Jonson.

SMUTCHIN
Smutch"in, n.

Defn: Snuff. [Obs.] Howell.

SMUTTY
Smut"ty, a. [Compar. Smuttier; superl. Smuttiest.]

1. Soiled with smut; smutted.

2. Tainted with mildew; as, smutty corn.

3. Obscene; not modest or pure; as, a smutty saying.
The smutty joke, ridiculously lewd. Smollett.
-- Smut"ti*ly, adv.
 -- Smut"ti*ness, n.

SMYRNIOT
Smyr"ni*ot, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Smyrna.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Smyrna.

SNACK
Snack, n. Etym: [See Snatch, v. t.]

1. A share; a part or portion; -- obsolete, except in the colloquial
phrase, to go snacks, i. e., to share.
At last he whispers, "Do, and we go snacks." Pope.

2. A slight, hasty repast. [Colloq.]

SNACKET
Snack"et, n.

Defn: See Snecket. [Prov. Eng.]

SNACOT
Snac"ot, n. Etym: [Said to be corrupted fr. NL. syngnathus, fr. Gr.
sy`n together + gna`qos jaw, because the jaws can be only slightly
separated.] (Zool.)

Defn: A pipefish of the genus Syngnathus. See Pipefish.

SNAFFLE
Snaf"fle, n. Etym: [D. snavel a beak, bill, snout; akin to G.
schnabel, OHG. snabul,. sneb, snebbe, OFries. snavel mouth, Dan. &
Sw. snabel beak, bill, Lith. snapas, and to E. snap, v. See Snap, and
cf. Neb.]

Defn: A kind of bridle bit, having a joint in the part to be placed
in the mouth, and rings and cheek pieces at the ends, but having no
curb; -- called also snaffle bit.

SNAFFLE
Snaf"fle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snaffled; p. pr. & vb. n. Snaffling.]

Defn: To put a snaffle in the mouth of; to subject to the snaffle; to
bridle.

SNAG
Snag, n. Etym: [Prov. E., n., a lump on a tree where a branch has
been cut off; v., to cut off the twigs and small branches from a
tree, of Celtic origin; cf. Gael. snaigh, snaidh, to cut down, to
prune, to sharpen, p. p. snaighte, snaidhte, cut off, lopped, Ir.
snaigh a hewing, cutting.]

1. A stump or base of a branch that has been lopped off; a short
branch, or a sharp or rough branch; a knot; a protuberance.
The coat of arms Now on a naked snag in triumph borne. Dryden.

2. A tooth projecting beyond the rest; contemptuously, a broken or
decayed tooth. Prior.

3. A tree, or a branch of a tree, fixed in the bottom of a river or
other navigable water, and rising nearly or quite to the surface, by
which boats are sometimes pierced and sunk.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the secondary branches of an antler. Snag boat, a
steamboat fitted with apparatus for removing snags and other
obstructions in navigable streams. [U.S.] -- Snag tooth. Same as
Snag, 2.
How thy snag teeth stand orderly, Like stakes which strut by the
water side. J. Cotgrave.

SNAG
Snag, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snagged; p. pr. & vb. n. Snagging.]

1. To cut the snags or branches from, as the stem of a tree; to hew
roughly. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. To injure or destroy, as a steamboat or other vessel, by a snag,
or projecting part of a sunken tree. [U. S.]

SNAGGED
Snag"ged, a.

Defn: Full of snags; snaggy.

SNAGGY
Snag"gy, a.

1. Full of snags; full of short, rough branches or sharp points;
abounding with knots. "Upon a snaggy oak." Spenser.

2. Snappish; cross; ill-tempered. [Prov. Eng.]

SNAIL
Snail, n. Etym: [OE. snaile, AS. sn, snegel, sn; akin to G. schnecke,
OHG. snecko, Dan. snegl, Icel. snigill.]

1. (Zool.)
(a) Any one of numerous species of terrestrial air-breathing
gastropods belonging to the genus Helix and many allied genera of the
family Helicid?. They are abundant in nearly all parts of the world
except the arctic regions, and feed almost entirely on vegetation; a
land sanil.
(b) Any gastropod having a general resemblance to the true snails,
including fresh-water and marine species. See Pond snail, under Pond,
and Sea snail.

2. Hence, a drone; a slow-moving person or thing.

3. (Mech.)

Defn: A spiral cam, or a flat piece of metal of spirally curved
outline, used for giving motion to, or changing the position of,
another part, as the hammer tail of a striking clock.

4. A tortoise; in ancient warfare, a movable roof or shed to protect
besiegers; a testudo. [Obs.]
They had also all manner of gynes [engines] . . . that needful is
[in] taking or sieging of castle or of city, as snails, that was
naught else but hollow pavises and targets, under the which men, when
they fought, were heled [protected], . . . as the snail is in his
house; therefore they cleped them snails. Vegetius (Trans.).

5. (Bot.)

Defn: The pod of the sanil clover. Ear snail, Edible snail, Pond
snail, etc. See under Ear, Edible, etc.
 -- Snail borer (Zool.), a boring univalve mollusk; a drill.
 -- Snail clover (Bot.), a cloverlike plant (Medicago scuttellata,
also, M. Helix); -- so named from its pods, which resemble the shells
of snails; -- called also snail trefoil, snail medic, and beehive.
 -- Snail flower (Bot.), a leguminous plant (Phaseolus Caracalla)
having the keel of the carolla spirally coiled like a snail shell.
 -- Snail shell (Zool.), the shell of snail.
 -- Snail trefoil. (Bot.) See Snail clover, above.

SNAILFISH
Snail"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Sea snail (a).

SNAIL-LIKE
Snail"-like`, a.

Defn: Like or suiting a snail; as, snail-like progress.

SNAIL-LIKE
Snail"-like`, adv.

Defn: In the manner of a snail; slowly.

SNAIL-PACED
Snail"-paced`, a.

Defn: Slow-moving, like a snail.
Bid the snail-paced Ajax arm for shame. Shak.

'SNAILS
'Snails, interj.

Defn: God's nails, or His nails, that is, the nails with which the
Savior was fastened to the cross; -- an ancient form of oath,
corresponding to 'Od's bodikins (dim. of body, i.e., God's dear
body). Beau & Fl.

SNAKE
Snake, n. Etym: [AS. snaca; akin to LG. snake, schnake, Icel. snakr,
sn, Dan. snog, Sw. snok; of uncertain origin.] (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of the order Ophidia; an ophidian; a serpent,
whether harmless or venomous. See Ophidia, and Serpent.

Note: Snakes are abundant in all warm countries, and much the larger
number are harmless to man. Blind snake, Garter snake, Green snake,
King snake, Milk snake, Rock snake, Water snake, etc. See under
Blind, Garter, etc.
 -- Fetich snake (Zool.), a large African snake (Python Seb?) used by
the natives as a fetich.
 -- Ringed snake (Zool.), a common European columbrine snake
(Tropidonotus natrix).
 -- Snake eater. (Zool.) (a) The markhoor. (b) The secretary bird.
 -- Snake fence, a worm fence (which see). [U.S.] -- Snake fly
(Zool.), any one of several species of neuropterous insects of the
genus Rhaphidia; -- so called because of their large head and
elongated neck and prothorax.
 -- Snake gourd (Bot.), a cucurbitaceous plant (Trichosanthes
anguina) having the fruit shorter and less snakelike than that of the
serpent cucumber.
 -- Snake killer. (Zool.) (a) The secretary bird. (b) The chaparral
cock.
 -- Snake moss (Bot.), the common club moss (Lycopodium clavatum).
See Lycopodium.
 -- Snake nut (Bot.), the fruit of a sapindaceous tree (Ophiocaryon
paradoxum) of Guiana, the embryo of which resembles a snake coiled
up.
 -- Tree snake (Zool.), any one of numerous species of colubrine
snakes which habitually live in trees, especially those of the genus
Dendrophis and allied genera.

SNAKE
Snake, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Snaking.]

1. To drag or draw, as a snake from a hole; -- often with out.
[Colloq. U.S.] Bartlett.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: To wind round spirally, as a large rope with a smaller, or with
cord, the small rope lying in the spaces between the strands of the
large one; to worm.

SNAKE
Snake, v. i.

Defn: To crawl like a snake.

SNAKEBIRD
Snake"bird`, n. Etym: [So named from its snakelike neck.] (Zool.)

1. Any one of four species of aquatic birds of the genus Anhinga or
Plotus. They are allied to the gannets and cormorants, but have very
long, slender, flexible necks, and sharp bills.

Note: The American species (Anhinga, or Plotus, anhinga) inhabits the
Southern United States and tropical America; -- called also darter,
and water turkey. The Asiatic species (A. melanogaster) is native of
Southern Asia and the East Indies. Two other species inhabit Africa
and Australia respectively.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The wryneck.

SNAKEFISH
Snake"fish`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The band fish.
(b) The lizard fish.

SNAKEHEAD
Snake"head`, n.

1. A loose, bent-up end of one of the strap rails, or flat rails,
formerly used on American railroads. It was sometimes so bent by the
passage of a train as to slip over a wheel and pierce the bottom of a
car.

2. (Bot.)
(a) The turtlehead.
(b) The Guinea-hen flower. See Snake's-head, and under Guinea.

SNAKENECK
Snake"neck`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The snakebird, 1.

SNAKEROOT
Snake"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any one of several plants of different genera and species, most
of which are (or were formerly) reputed to be efficacious as remedies
for the bites of serpents; also, the roots of any of these.

Note: The Virginia snakeroot is Aristolochia Serpentaria; black
snakeroot is Sanicula, esp. S. Marilandica, also Cimicifuga racemosa;
Seneca snakeroot is Polygala Senega; button snakeroot is Liatris,
also Eryngium; white snakeroot is Eupatorium ageratoides. The name is
also applied to some others besides these.

SNAKE'S-HEAD
Snake's"-head`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The Guinea-hen flower; -- so called in England because its
spotted petals resemble the scales of a snake's head. Dr. Prior.
Snake's-head iris (Bot.), an iridaceous plant (Hermodactylus
tuberosus) of the Mediterranean region. The flowers slightly resemble
a serpent's open mouth.

SNAKESTONE
Snake"stone`, n.

1. A kind of hone slate or whetstone obtained in Scotland.

2. (Paleon.)

Defn: An ammonite; -- so called from its form, which resembles that
of a coiled snake.

SNAKE'S-TONGUE
Snake's-tongue`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Same as Adder's-tongue.

SNAKEWEED
Snake"weed`, n. (Bot.)
(a) A kind of knotweed (Polygonum Bistorta).
(b) The Virginia snakeroot. See Snakeroot.

SNAKEWOOD
Snake"wood`, n. (Bot.)
(a) An East Indian climbing plant (Strychnos colubrina) having a
bitter taste, and supposed to be a remedy for the bite of the hooded
serpent.
(b) An East Indian climbing shrub (Ophioxylon serpentinum) which has
the roots and stems twisted so as to resemble serpents.
(c) Same as Trumpetwood.
(d) A tropical American shrub (Plumieria rubra) which has very
fragrant red blossoms.
(e) Same as Letterwood.

SNAKISH
Snak"ish, a.

Defn: Having the qualities or characteristics of a snake; snaky.

SNAKY
Snak"y, a.

1. Of or pertaining to a snake or snakes; resembling a snake;
serpentine; winding.
The red light playing upon its gilt and carving gave it an appearance
of snaky life. L. Wallace.

2. Sly; cunning; insinuating; deceitful.
So to the coast of Jordan he directs His easy steps, girded with
snaky wiles. Milton.

3. Covered with serpents; having serpents; as, a snaky rod or wand.
Dryden.
That snaky-headed, Gorgon shield. Milton.

SNAP
Snap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snapped; p. pr. & vb. n. Snapping.] Etym:
[LG. or D. snappen to snap up, to snatch; akin to G. schnappen, MHG.
snaben, Dan. snappe, and to D. snavel beak, bill. Cf. Neb, Snaffle,
n.]

1. To break at once; to break short, as substances that are brittle.
Breaks the doors open, snaps the locks. Prior.

2. To strike, to hit, or to shut, with a sharp sound.

3. To bite or seize suddenly, especially with the teeth.
He, by playing too often at the mouth of death, has been snapped by
it at last. South.

4. To break upon suddenly with sharp, angry words; to treat
snappishly; -- usually with up. Granville.

5. To crack; to cause to make a sharp, cracking noise; as, to snap a
whip.
MacMorian snapped his fingers repeatedly. Sir W. Scott.

6. To project with a snap. To snap back (Football), to roll the ball
back with the foot; -- done only by the center rush, who thus
delivers the ball to the quarter back on his own side when both sides
are ranged in line.
 -- To snap off. (a) To break suddenly. (b) To bite off suddenly.

SNAP
Snap, v. i.

1. To break short, or at once; to part asunder suddenly; as, a mast
snaps; a needle snaps.
But this weapon will snap short, unfaithful to the hand that employs
it. Burke.

2. To give forth, or produce, a sharp, cracking noise; to crack; as,
blazing firewood snaps.

3. To make an effort to bite; to aim to seize with the teeth; to
catch eagerly (at anything); -- often with at; as, a dog snapsat a
passenger; a fish snaps at the bait.

4. To utter sharp, harsh, angry words; -- often with at; as, to snap
at a child.

5. To miss fire; as, the gun snapped.

SNAP
Snap, n. Etym: [Cf. D. snap a snatching. See Snap, v. t.]

1. A sudden breaking or rupture of any substance.

2. A sudden, eager bite; a sudden seizing, or effort to seize, as
with the teeth.

3. A sudden, sharp motion or blow, as with the finger sprung from the
thumb, or the thumb from the finger.

4. A sharp, abrupt sound, as that made by the crack of a whip; as,
the snap of the trigger of a gun.

5. A greedy fellow. L'Estrange.

6. That which is, or may be, snapped up; something bitten off,
seized, or obtained by a single quick movement; hence, a bite,
morsel, or fragment; a scrap.
He's a nimble fellow, And alike skilled in every liberal science, As
having certain snaps of all. B. Jonson.

7. A sudden severe interval or spell; -- applied to the weather; as,
a cold snap. Lowell.

8. A small catch or fastening held or closed by means of a spring, or
one which closes with a snapping sound, as the catch of a bracelet,
necklace, clasp of a book, etc.

9. (Zool.)

Defn: A snap beetle.

10. A thin, crisp cake, usually small, and flavored with ginger; --
used chiefly in the plural.

11. Briskness; vigor; energy; decision. [Colloq.]

12. Any circumstance out of which money may be made or an advantage
gained. [Slang] Snap back (Football), the act of snapping back the
ball.
 -- Snap beetle, or Snap bug (Zool.), any beetle of the family
Elaterid?, which, when laid on its back, is able to leap to a
considerable height by means of a thoracic spring; -- called also
snapping beetle.
 -- Snap flask (Molding), a flask for small work, having its sides
separable and held together by latches, so that the flask may be
removed from around the sand mold.
 -- Snap judgment, a judgment formed on the instant without
deliberation.
 -- Snap lock, a lock shutting with a catch or snap.
 -- Snap riveting, riveting in which the rivets have snapheads formed
by a die or swaging tool.
 -- Snap shot, a quick offhand shot, without deliberately taking aim.

SNAPDRAGON
Snap"drag`on, n.

1. (Bot.)
(a) Any plant of the scrrophulariaceous genus Antirrhinum, especially
the cultivated A. majus, whose showy flowers are fancifully likened
to the face of a dragon.
(b) A West Indian herb (Ruellia tuberosa) with curiously shaped blue
flowers.

2. A play in which raisins are snatched from a vessel containing
burning brandy, and eaten; also, that which is so eaten. See
Flapdragon. Swift.

SNAPE
Snape, v. t. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: To bevel the end of a timber to fit against an inclined
surface.

SNAPHANCE
Snap"hance`, n. Etym: [D. snaphaan a gun, originally, the snapping
cock of a gun. See Snap, and Hen.]

1. A spring lock for discharging a firearm; also, the firearm to
which it is attached. [Obs.]

2. A trifling or second-rate thing or person. [Obs.]

SNAPHEAD
Snap"head`, n.

Defn: A hemispherical or rounded head to a rivet or bolt; also, a
swaging tool with a cavity in its face for forming such a rounded
head.

SNAPPER
Snap"per, n.

1. One who, or that which, snaps; as, a snapper up of trifles; the
snapper of a whip.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of large sparoid food fishes of the
genus Lutjanus, abundant on the southern coasts of the United States
and on both coasts of tropical America.

Note: The red snapper (Lutjanus aya, or Blackfordi) and the gray, or
mangrove, snapper (L. griseus) are large and abundant species. The
name is loosely applied to various other fishes, as the bluefish, the
rosefish, the red grouper, etc. See Rosefish.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: A snapping turtle; as, the alligator snapper.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: The green woodpecker, or yaffle.

5. (Zool.)

Defn: A snap beetle.

SNAPPING
Snap"ping,

Defn: a. & n. from Snap, v. Snapping beetle. (Zool.) See Snap beetle,
under Snap.
 -- Snapping turtle. (Zool.) (a) A large and voracious aquatic turtle
(Chelydra serpentina) common in the fresh waters of the United
States; -- so called from its habit of seizing its prey by a snap of
its jaws. Called also mud turtle. (b) See Alligator snapper, under
Alligator.

SNAPPISH
Snap"pish, a.

1. Apt to snap at persons or things; eager to bite; as, a snapping
cur.

2. Sharp in reply; apt to speak angrily or testily; easily provoked;
tart; peevish.
The taunting address of a snappish missanthrope. Jeffrey.
-- Snap"pish*ly, adv.
 -- Snap"pish*ness, n.

SNAPPY
Snap"py, a.

Defn: Snappish. [Colloq.]

SNAPSACK
Snap"sack`, n. Etym: [Cf. Sw. snappsack, G. schnappsack.]

Defn: A knapsack. [Obs.] South.

SNAPSHOT; SNAP SHOT
Snap"shot`, n.

1. Commonly Snap shot.
 (a) A quick offhand shot, made without deliberately taking aim over
the sights.
 (b) (Photog.) Act of taking a snapshot (in sense 2).

2.  An instantaneous photograph made, usually with a hand camera,
without formal posing of, and often without the foreknowledge of, the
subject.

SNAPWEED
Snap"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: See Impatiens.

SNAR
Snar, v. i. Etym: [Akin to LG. & OD. snarren, G. schnarren, E. snore.
See Snore, and cf. Snarl to growl.]

Defn: To snarl. [Obs.] Spenser.

SNARE
Snare, n. Etym: [AS. sneara cord, a string; akin to D. snoer, G.
schnur, OHG. snour a cord, snarahha a noose, Dan. snare, Sw. & Icel.
snara, Goth. sn a basket; and probably also to E. needle. See Needle,
and cf. Snarl to entangle.]

1. A contrivance, often consisting of a noose of cord, or the like,
by which a bird or other animal may be entangled and caught; a trap;
a gin.

2. Hence, anything by which one is entangled and brought into
trouble.
If thou retire, the Dauphin, well appointed, Stands with the snares
of war to tangle thee. Shak.

3. The gut or string stretched across the lower head of a drum.

4. (Med.)

Defn: An instrument, consisting usually of a wireloop or noose, for
removing tumors, etc., by avulsion. Snare drum, the smaller common
military drum, as distinguished from the bass drum; -- so called
because (in order to render it more resonant) it has stretched across
its lower head a catgut string or strings.

SNARE
Snare, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snared; p. pr. & vb. n. Snaring.]

Defn: To catch with a snare; to insnare; to entangle; hence, to bring
into unexpected evil, perplexity, or danger.
Lest that too heavenly form . . . snare them. Milton.
The mournful crocodile With sorrow snares relenting passengers. Shak.

SNARER
Snar"er, n.

Defn: One who lays snares, or entraps.

SNARL
Snarl, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snarled; p. pr. & vvb. n. Snarling.] Etym:
[Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: To form raised work upon the outer surface of (thin metal ware)
by the repercussion of a snarling iron upon the inner surface.

SNARL
Snarl, v. t. Etym: [From Snare, v. t.]

1. To entangle; to complicate; to involve in knots; as, to snarl a
skein of thread. "Her snarled hair." Spenser.

2. To embarrass; to insnare.
[The] question that they would have snarled him with. Latimer.

SNARL
Snarl, n.

Defn: A knot or complication of hair, thread, or the like, difficult
to disentangle; entanglement; hence, intricate complication;
embarrassing difficulty.

SNARL
Snarl, v. i. Etym: [From Snar.]

1. To growl, as an angry or surly dog; to gnarl; to utter grumbling
sounds. "An angry cur snarls while he feeds." Dryden & Lee.

2. To speak crossly; to talk in rude, surly terms.
It is malicious and unmanly to snarl at the little lapses of a pen,
from which Virgil himself stands not exempted. Dryden.

SNARL
Snarl, n.

Defn: The act of snarling; a growl; a surly or peevish expression; an
angry contention.

SNARLER
Snarl"er, n.

Defn: One who snarls; a surly, growling animal; a grumbling,
quarrelsome fellow.

SNARLER
Snarl"er, n.

Defn: One who makes use of a snarling iron.

SNARLING
Snarl"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Snarl, v. Snarling iron, a tool with a long beak, used in
the process of snarling. When one end is held in a vise, and the
shank is struck with a hammer, the repercussion of the other end, or
beak, within the article worked upon gives the requisite blow for
producing raised work. See 1st Snarl.

SNARY
Snar"y, a. Etym: [From Snare.]

Defn: Resembling, or consisting of, snares; entangling; insidious.
Spiders in the vault their snary webs have spread. Dryden.

SNAST
Snast, n. Etym: [Cf. Snite, v. t.]

Defn: The snuff, or burnt wick, of a candle. [Obs.] Bacon.

SNATCH
Snatch, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snatched; p. pr. & vb. n. Snatching.]
Etym: [OE. snachen, snechen; akin to D. snakken to gasp, to long
(for), to desire. Cf. Snack, n., Sneck.]

1. To take or seize hastily, abruptly, or without permission or
ceremony; as, to snatch a loaf or a kiss.
When half our knowledge we must snatch, not take. Pope.

2. To seize and transport away; to rap. "Snatch me to heaven."
Thomson.

Syn.
 -- To twitch; pluck; grab; catch; grasp; gripe.

SNATCH
Snatch, v. i.

Defn: To attempt to seize something suddenly; to catch; -- often with
at; as, to snatch at a rope.

SNATCH
Snatch, n.

1. A hasty catching or seizing; a grab; a catching at, or attempt to
seize, suddenly.

2. A short period of vigorous action; as, a snatch at weeding after a
shower. Tusser.
They move by fits and snatches. Bp. Wilkins.

3. A small piece, fragment, or quantity; a broken part; a scrap.
We have often little snatches of sunshine. Spectator.
Leave me your snatches, and yield me a direct answer. Shak.

SNATCH BLOCK
Snatch block (Naut.),

Defn: a kind of block with an opening in one side to receive the
bight of a rope.

SNATCHER
Snatch"er, n.

Defn: One who snatches, or takes abruptly.

SNATCHINGLY
Snatch"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: By snatching; abruptly.

SNATH
Snath, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. sni to cut, to mow, sn a bite, bit snip.]

Defn: The handle of a scythe; a snead. [Variously written in England
snead, sneed, sneath, sneeth, snathe, etc.; in Scotland written
sned.]

SNATH
Snath (snath), n. [Cf. AS. sni?an to cut, to mow, snaed a bite, bit,
snip.]

Defn: The handle of a scythe; a snead. [Variously written in England
snead, sneed, sneath, sneeth, snathe, etc.; in Scotland written
sned.]

SNATHE
Snathe, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Icel. snei to cut into alices, sni to cut;
akin to AS. besn, sni, G. schneiden, OHG. snidan, Goth. snei to cut,
to reap, and E. snath, snithe.]

Defn: To lop; to prune. [Prov. Eng.]

SNATTOCK
Snat"tock, n. Etym: [See Snathe.]

Defn: A chip; a alice. [Prov. Eng.] Gayton.

SNAW
Snaw, n.

Defn: Snow. [Obs. or Scot.] Burns.

SNEAD
Snead, n. Etym: [See Snatch.]

1. A snath.

2. A line or cord; a string. [Prov. Eng.]

SNEAK
Sneak, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sneaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Sneaking.] Etym:
[OE. sniken, AS. snican to creep; akin to Dan. snige sig; cf. Icel.
snikja to hanker after.]

1. To creep or steal (away or about) privately; to come or go meanly,
as a person afraid or ashamed to be seen; as, to sneak away from
company. imp. & p. p. "snuck" is more common now, but not even
mentioned here. In MW10, simply "sneaked or snuck"
You skulked behind the fence, and sneaked away. Dryden.

2. To act in a stealthy and cowardly manner; to behave with meanness
and servility; to crouch.

SNEAK
Sneak, v. t.

Defn: To hide, esp. in a mean or cowardly manner. [Obs.] "[Slander]
sneaks its head." Wake.

SNEAK
Sneak, n.

1. A mean, sneaking fellow.
A set of simpletons and superstitious sneaks. Glanvill.

2. (Cricket)

Defn: A ball bowled so as to roll along the ground; -- called also
grub. [Cant] R. A. Proctor.

SNEAK-CUP
Sneak"-cup`, n.

Defn: One who sneaks from his cups; one who balks his glass. [Obs.]
Shak.

SNEAK CURRENT
Sneak current. (Elec.)

Defn: A current which, though too feeble to blow the usual fuse or to
injure at once telegraph or telephone instruments, will in time burn
them out.

SNEAKER
Sneak"er, n.

1. One who sneaks. Lamb.

2. A vessel of drink. [Prov. Eng.]
A sneaker of five gallons. Spectator.

SNEAKINESS
Sneak"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sneaky.

SNEAKING
Sneak"ing, a.

Defn: Marked by cowardly concealment; deficient in openness and
courage; underhand; mean; crouching.
 -- Sneak"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Sneak"ing*ness, n.

SNEAKSBY
Sneaks"by, n.

Defn: A paltry fellow; a sneak. [Obs.] "Such a bashful sneaksby."
Barrow.

SNEAKY
Sneak"y, n.

Defn: Like a sneak; sneaking.

SNEAP
Sneap, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Icel. sneypa to dishonor, disgrace, chide,
but also E. snip, and snub.]

1. To check; to reprimand; to rebuke; to chide. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

2. To nip; to blast; to blight. [Obs.]
Biron is like an envious, sneaping frost. Shak.

SNEAP
Sneap, n.

Defn: A reprimand; a rebuke. [Obs.]
My lord, I will not undergo this sneap without reply. Shak.

SNEATH; SNEATHE
Sneath, Sneathe, n.

Defn: See Snath.

SNEB
Sneb, v. t. Etym: [See Snib.]

Defn: To reprimand; to sneap. [Obs.] "Scold and sneb the good oak."
Spenser.

SNECK
Sneck, v. t. Etym: [See Snatch.]

Defn: To fasten by a hatch; to latch, as a door. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]
Sneck up, be silent; shut up; hold your peace. Shak.

SNECK
Sneck, n.

Defn: A door latch. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.] Sneck band, a latchstring.
Burns.
 -- Sneck drawer, a latch lifter; a bolt drawer; hence, a sly person;
a cozener; a cheat; -- called also sneckdraw.
 -- Sneck drawing, lifting the latch.

SNECKET
Sneck"et, n.

Defn: A door latch, or sneck. [Prov. Eng.]

SNED
Sned, v. t.

Defn: To lop; to snathe. [Prov. Eng.]

SNED; SNEED
Sned, Sneed, n.

Defn: See Snath.

SNEER
Sneer, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sneered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sneering.] Etym:
[OE. sneren, Dan. sn to snarl or grin (like a dog); cf. Prov. E.
sneer to grin, sner to snort, snert to sneer at. See Snore, v. i.]

1. To show contempt by turning up the nose, or by a particular facial
expression.

2. To inssinuate contempt by a covert expression; to speak
derisively.
I could be content to be a little sneared at. Pope.

3. To show mirth awkwardly. [R.] Tatler.

Syn.
 -- To scoff; gibe; jeer.
 -- Sneer, Scoff, Jeer. The verb to sneer implies to cast contempt
indirectly or by covert expressions. To jeer is stronger, and denotes
the use of several sarcastic reflections. To scoff is stronger still,
implying the use of insolent mockery and derision.
And sneers as learnedly as they, Like females o'er their morning tea.
Swift.
Midas, exposed to all their jeers, Had lost his art, and kept his
ears. Swift.
The fop, with learning at defiance, Scoffs at the pedant and science.
Gay.

SNEER
Sneer, v. t.

1. To utter with a grimace or contemptuous expression; to utter with
a sneer; to say sneeringly; as, to sneer fulsome lies at a person.
Congreve.
"A ship of fools," he sneered. Tennyson.

2. To treat with sneers; to affect or move by sneers.
Nor sneered nor bribed from virtue into shame. Savage.

SNEER
Sneer, n.

1. The act of sneering.

2. A smile, grin, or contortion of the face, indicative of contempt;
an indirect expression or insinuation of contempt. "Who can refute a
sneer" Raley.

SNEERER
Sneer"er, n.

Defn: One who sneers.

SNEERFUL
Sneer"ful, a.

Defn: Given to sneering. [Obs.]

SNEERINGLY
Sneer"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sneering manner.

SNEEZE
Sneeze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sneezed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sneezing.] Etym:
[OE. snesen; of uncertain origin; cf. D. snuse to sniff, E. neese,
and AS. fneosan.]

Defn: To emit air, chiefly through the nose, audibly and violently,
by a kind of involuntary convulsive force, occasioned by irritation
of the inner membrane of the nose. Not to be sneezed at, not to be
despised or contemned; not to be treated lightly. [Colloq.] "He had
to do with old women who were not to be sneezed at." Prof. Wilson.

SNEEZE
Sneeze, n.

Defn: A sudden and violent ejection of air with an audible sound,
chiefly through the nose.

SNEEZEWEED
Sneeze"weed`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A yellow-flowered composite plant (Helenium autumnale) the odor
of which is said to cause sneezing.

SNEEZEWOOD
Sneeze"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The wood of a South African tree. See Neishout.

SNEEZEWORT
Sneeze"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A European herbaceous plant (Achillea Ptarmica) allied to the
yarrow, having a strong, pungent smell.

SNEEZING
Sneez"ing, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act of violently forcing air out through the nasal passages
while the cavity of the mouth is shut off from the pharynx by the
approximation of the soft palate and the base of the tongue.

SNELL
Snell, a. Etym: [AS. snell; akin to D. snel, G. schnell, OHG. snel,
Icel. snjallr valiant.]

Defn: Active; brisk; nimble; quick; sharp. [Archaic or Prov. Eng. &
Scot.]
That horny-handed, snell, peremptory little man. Dr. J. Brown.

SNELL
Snell, n.

Defn: A short line of horsehair, gut, etc., by which a fishhook is
attached to a longer line.

SNET
Snet, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schnitt that which is cut, fr. schneiden to
cut, E. snath.]

Defn: The fat of a deer. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SNET
Snet, v. t. Etym: [See Snot.]

Defn: The clear of mucus; to blow. [Obs.] "Snetting his nose."
Holland.

SNEW
Snew, v. i.

Defn: To snow; to abound. [Obs.]
It snewed in his house of meat and drink. Chaucer.

SNIB
Snib, v. t. Etym: [OE. snibben; cf. Dan. snibbe, and E. snub, v. t.]

Defn: To check; to sneap; to sneb. [Obs.]
Him would he snib sharply for the nones. Chaucer.

SNIB
Snib, n.

Defn: A reprimand; a snub. [Obs.] Marston.

SNICK
Snick, n. Etym: [Prov. E. snick a notch; cf. Icel. snikka nick, cut.]

1. A small cut or mark.

2. (Cricket)

Defn: A slight hit or tip of the ball, often unintentional.

3. (Fiber)

Defn: A knot or irregularity in yarn. Knight.

4. (Furriery)

Defn: A snip or cut, as in the hair of a beast. Snick and snee Etym:
[cf. D. snee, snede, a cut], a combat with knives. [Obs.] Wiseman.

SNICK
Snick, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snicked; p. pr. & vb. n. Snicking.]

1. To cut slightly; to strike, or strike off, as by cutting. H.
Kingsley.

2. (Cricket)

Defn: To hit (a ball) lightly. R. A. Proctor.

SNICK
Snick, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Sneck. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.] Snick up, shut up; silenced.
See Sneck up, under Sneck.
Give him money, George, and let him go snick up. Beau & Fl.

SNICKER
Snick"er, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Snickered; p. pr. & vb. n. Snickering.]
Etym: [Cf. D. snikken to sob, to sigh.] [Written also snigger.]

1. To laugh slyly; to laugh in one's sleeve.

2. To laugh with audible catches of voice, as when persons attempt to
suppress loud laughter.

SNICKER
Snick"er, n.

Defn: A half suppressed, broken laugh. [Written also snigger.]

SNIDE
Snide, a.

Defn: Tricky; deceptive; contemptible; as, a snide lawyer; snide
goods. [Slang]

SNIDER RIFLE; SNIDER
Sni"der ri"fle, or Sni"der, n. (Mil.)

Defn: A breech-loading rifle formerly used in the British service; --
so called from the inventor.

SNIFF
Sniff, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sniffed or Snift; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sniffing.] Etym: [OE. sneven; akin to snivel, snuff; cf. Dan. snive
to sniff. See Snuff, v. t.]

Defn: To draw air audibly up the nose; to snuff; -- sometimes done as
a gesture of suspicion, offense, or contempt.
So ye grow squeamish, gods, and sniff at heaven. M. Arnold.

SNIFF
Sniff, v. t.

1. To draw in with the breath through the nose; as, to sniff the air
of the country.

2. To perceive as by sniffing; to snuff, to scent; to smell; as, to
sniff danger.

SNIFF
Sniff, n.

Defn: The act of sniffing; perception by sniffing; that which is
taken by sniffing; as, a sniff of air.

SNIFFING
Sniff"ing, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: A rapid inspiratory act, in which the mouth is kept shut and
the air drawn in through the nose.

SNIFFLE
Snif"fle, v. i. Etym: [Freq. of sniff. See Snivel.]

Defn: To snuffle, as one does with a catarrh. [Prov. Eng.]

SNIFT
Snift, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Snifted; p. pr. & vb. n. Snifting.] Etym:
[From Sniff.]

1. To snort. [Obs.] "Resentment expressed by snifting." Johnson.

2. To sniff; to snuff; to smell.
It now appears that they were still snifing and hankering after their
old quarters. Landor.

SNIFT
Snift, n.

1. A moment. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

2. Slight snow; sleet. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SNIFTING
Snift"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Snift. Snifting valve, a small valve opening into the
atmosphere from the cylinder or condenser of a steam engine, to allow
the escape of air when the piston makes a stroke; -- so called from
the noise made by its action.

SNIG
Snig, v. t. Etym: [See Snick a small cut.]

Defn: To chop off; to cut. [Prov. Eng.]

SNIG
Snig, v. i. Etym: [See Sneak.]

Defn: To sneak. [Prov. Eng.]

SNIG; SNIGG
Snig, Snigg, n. Etym: [Cf. Sneak.] (Zool.)

Defn: A small eel. [Prov. Eng.]

SNIGGER
Snig"ger, v. i.

Defn: See Snicker. Thackeray.

SNIGGER
Snig"ger, n.

Defn: See Snicker. Dickens.

SNIGGLE
Snig"gle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sniggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Sniggling().]
Etym: [See Snig a kind of eel.]

Defn: To fish for eels by thrusting the baited hook into their holes
or hiding places. Walton.

SNIGGLE
Snig"gle, v. t.

Defn: To catch, as an eel, by sniggling; hence, to hook; to insnare.
Beau & Fl.

SNIP
Snip, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snipped; p. pr. & vb. n. Snipping.] Etym:
[D. snippen; akin to G. schnippen.]

Defn: To cut off the nip or neb of, or to cut off at once with shears
or scissors; to clip off suddenly; to nip; hence, to break off; to
snatch away.
Curbed and snipped in my younger years by fear of my parents from
those vicious excrescences to which that age was subject. Fuller.
The captain seldom ordered anything out of the ship's stores . . .
but I snipped some of it for my own share. De Foe.

SNIP
Snip, n.

1. A single cut, as with shears or scissors; a clip. Shak.

2. A small shred; a bit cut off. Wiseman.

3. A share; a snack. [Obs.] L'Estrange

4. A tailor. [Slang] Nares. C. Kingsley.

5. Small hand shears for cutting sheet metal.

SNIPE
Snipe, n. Etym: [OE. snipe; akin to D. snep, snip, LG. sneppe,
snippe, G. schnepfe, Icel. snipa (in comp.), Dan. sneppe, Sw. snappa
a sanpiper, and possibly to E. snap. See Snap, Snaffle.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of numerous species of limicoline game birds of the
family Scolopacid?, having a long, slender, nearly straight beak.

Note: The common, or whole, snipe (Gallinago coelestis) and the
great, or double, snipe (G. major), are the most important European
species. The Wilson's snipe (G. delicata) (sometimes erroneously
called English snipe) and the gray snipe, or dowitcher (Macrohamphus
griseus), are well-known American species.

2. A fool; a blockhead. [R.] Shak. Half snipe, the dunlin; the
jacksnipe.
 -- Jack snipe. See Jacksnipe.
 -- Quail snipe. See under Quail.
 -- Robin snipe, the knot.
 -- Sea snipe. See in the Vocabulary.
 -- Shore snipe, any sandpiper.
 -- Snipe hawk, the marsh harrier. [Prov. Eng.] -- Stone snipe, the
tattler.
 -- Summer snipe, the dunlin; the green and the common European
sandpipers.
 -- Winter snipe. See Rock snipe, under Rock.
 -- Woodcock snipe, the great snipe.

SNIPEBILL
Snipe"bill`, n.

1. A plane for cutting deep grooves in moldings.

2. A bolt by which the body of a cart is fastened to the axle.
[Local, U.S.]

SNIPEFISH
Snipe"fish`, n. (Zool.)
(a) The bellows fish.
(b) A long, slender deep-sea fish (Nemichthys scolopaceus) with a
slender beak.

SNIPPACK
Snip"pack, n. Etym: [Cf. Snipe.] (Zool.)

Defn: The common snipe. [Prov. Eng.]

SNIPPER
Snip"per, n.

Defn: One who snips.

SNIPPER-SNAPER
Snip"per-snap`er, n.

Defn: A small, insignificant fellow. [Colloq.]

SNIPPET
Snip"pet, n.

Defn: A small part or piece.
To be cut into snippets and shreds. F. Harrison.

SNIPPETY
Snip"pet*y, a.

Defn: Ridiculously small; petty. "Snippety facts." London Spectator.

SNIP-SNAP
Snip"-snap`, n. Etym: [Reduplication of snap.]

Defn: A tart dialogue with quick replies. [R.] Pope.

SNIP-SNAP
Snip"-snap`, a.

Defn: Quick; short; sharp; smart. Shak.

SNIPY
Snip"y, a.

Defn: Like a snipe.

SNITE
Snite, n.

Defn: A snipe. [Obs. or Scot.] Carew.

SNITE
Snite, v. t. Etym: [Icel. snifa. See Snout.]

Defn: To blow, as the nose; to snuff, as a candle. [Obs. or Scot.]

SNITHE; SNITHY
Snithe, Snith"y, a. Etym: [AS. sni to cut. See Snathe.]

Defn: Sharp; piercing; cutting; -- applied to the wind. [Prov. Eng.]

SNIVEL
Sniv"el, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sniveled or Snivelled; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sniveling or Snivelling.] Etym: [OE. snivelen, snevelen, snuvelen,
freg. of sneven. See Sniff, and cf. Snuffle.]

1. To run at the nose; to make a snuffling noise.

2. To cry or whine with snuffling, as children; to cry weakly or
whiningly.
Put stop to thy sniveling ditty. Sir W. Scott.

SNIVEL
Sniv"el, n. Etym: [AS. snofel. Cf. Snivel, v. i.]

Defn: Mucus from the nose; snot.

SNIVELER
Sniv"el*er, n. Etym: [Written also sniveller.]

Defn: One who snivels, esp. one who snivels habitually.

SNIVELY
Sniv"el*y, a.

Defn: Running at the nose; sniveling pitiful; whining.

SNOB
Snob, n. Etym: [Icel. snapr a dolt, impostor, charlatan. Cf. Snub.]

1. A vulgar person who affects to be better, richer, or more
fashionable, than he really is; a vulgar upstart; one who apes his
superiors. Thackeray.
Essentially vulgar, a snob.
 -- a gilded snob, but none the less a snob. R. G. White.

2. (Eng. Univ.)

Defn: A townsman. [Canf]

3. A journeyman shoemaker. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

4. A workman who accepts lower than the usual wages, or who refuses
to strike when his fellows do; a rat; a knobstick.
Those who work for lower wages during a strike are called snobs, the
men who stand out being "nobs" De Quincey.

SNOBBERY
Snob"ber*y, n.

Defn: The quality of being snobbish; snobbishness.

SNOBBISH
Snob"bish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a snob; characteristic of, or befitting, a
snob; vulgarly pretentious.
 -- Snob"bish*ly, adv.

SNOBBISHNESS
Snob"bish*ness, n.

Defn: Vulgar affectation or ostentation; mean admiration of mean
things; conduct or manners of a snob.

SNOBBISM
Snob"bism, n.

Defn: Snobbery.

SNOBBY
Snob"by, a.

Defn: Snobbish. [R.] E. B. Ramsay.

SNOBLING
Snob"ling, n.

Defn: A little snob. [Jocose] Thackeray.

SNOBOCRACY
Snob*oc"ra*cy, n. Etym: [Snob + -cracy, as in aristocracy,
mobocracy.]

Defn: Snobs, collectively. [Hybrid & Recent] C. Kingsley.

SNOD
Snod, n. Etym: [See Snood.]

Defn: A fillet; a headband; a snood. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SNOD
Snod, a. Etym: [Scot. snod to prune, put in order.]

Defn: Trimmed; smooth; neat; trim; sly; cunning; demure. [Prov. Eng.
& Scot.]

SNOFF
Snoff, n. Etym: [Cf. Snuff.] (Mining)

Defn: A short candle end used for igniting a fuse. Raymond.

SNOOD
Snood, n. Etym: [AS. sn. Cf. Snare.]

1. The fillet which binds the hair of a young unmarried woman, and is
emblematic of her maiden character. [Scot.]
And seldom was a snood amid Such wild, luxuriant ringlets hid. Sir W.
Scott.

2. A short line (often of horsehair) connecting a fishing line with
the hook; a snell; a leader.

SNOOD
Snood, v. t.

Defn: To bind or braid up, as the hair, with a snood. [Scot.]

SNOODED
Snood"ed, a.

Defn: Wearing or having a snood. "The snooded daughter." Whittier.

SNOOK
Snook, v. i. Etym: [Prov. E. snook to search out, to follow by the
scent; cf. Sw. snoka to lurk, LG. snoggen, snuckern, snokern, to
snuffle, to smell about, to search for.]

Defn: To lurk; to lie in ambush. [Obs.]

SNOOK
Snook, n. Etym: [D. snoek.] (Zool.)
(a) A large perchlike marine food fish (Centropomus undecimalis)
found both on the Atlantic and Pacific coasts of tropical America; --
called also ravallia, and robalo.
(b) The cobia.
(c) The garfish.

SNOOZE
Snooze, n. Etym: [Scot. snooze to sleep; cf. Dan. & Sw. snus snuff.]

Defn: A short sleep; a nap. [Colloq.]

SNOOZE
Snooze, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Snoozed; p. pr. & vb. n. Snoozing.]

Defn: To doze; to drowse; to take a short nap; to slumber. [Colloq.]

SNORE
Snore, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Snored; p. pr. & vb. n. Snoring.] Etym:
[OE. snoren, AS. snora a snoring; akin to LG. snoren, snorken,
snurken, to snore, D. snorken, G. schnarchen to snore, schnarren to
rattle, MHG. snarren, Sw. snarka to snore, Icel. snarka to sputter,
fizzle. Cf. Snarl to growl, Sneer, Snort. See Snoring.]

Defn: To breathe with a rough, hoarse, nasal voice in sleep.

SNORE
Snore, n.

Defn: A harsh nasal noise made in sleep.

SNORER
Snor"er, n.

Defn: One who snores.

SNORING
Snor"ing, n. (Physiol.)

Defn: The act of respiring through the open mouth so that the
currents of inspired and expired air cause a vibration of the uvula
and soft palate, thus giving rise to a sound more or less harsh. It
is usually unvoluntary, but may be produced voluntarily.

SNORT
Snort, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Snorted; p. pr. & vb. n. Snorting.] Etym:
[OE. snorten; akin to snoren. See Snore.]

1. To force the air with violence through the nose, so as to make a
noise, as do high-spirited horsed in prancing and play. Fairfax.

2. To snore. [R.] "The snorting citizens." Shak.

3. To laugh out loudly. [Colloq.] Halliwell.

SNORT
Snort, n.

Defn: The act of snorting; the sound produced in snorting.

SNORT
Snort, v. t.

Defn: To expel throught the nostrils with a snort; to utter with a
snort. Keats.

SNORTER
Snort"er, n.

1. One who snorts.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The wheather; -- so called from its cry. [Prov. Eng.]

SNOT
Snot, n. Etym: [AS. snot; akin to D. snot, LG. snotte, Dan. snot, and
to E. snout. See Snout.]

1. Mucus secreted in, or discharged from, the nose. [Low]

2. A mean, insignificant fellow. [Low]

SNOT
Snot, v. t.

Defn: To blow, wipe, or clear, as the nose.

SNOTTER
Snot"ter, v. i. Etym: [From Snot.]

Defn: To snivel; to cry or whine. [Prov. Eng.] Grose.

SNOTTER
Snot"ter, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.] (Naut.)

Defn: A rope going over a yardarm, used to bend a tripping line to,
in sending down topgallant and royal yards in vessels of war; also,
the short line supporting the heel of the sprit in a small boat.

SNOTTERY
Snot"ter*y, n.

Defn: Filth; abomination. [Obs.]
To purge the snottery of our slimy time. Marston.

SNOTTY
Snot"ty, a.

Defn: Foul with snot; hence, mean; dirty.
 -- Snort"ti*ly, adb.
 -- Snot"ti*ness, n.

SNOUT
Snout, n. Etym: [OE. snoute, probably of Scand, or Low German origin;
cf. LG. snute, D. snuit, G. schnauze, Sw. snut, snyte, Dan. snude,
Icel. sn to blow the nose; probably akin to E. snuff, v.t. Cf. Snite,
Snot, Snuff.]

1. The long, projecting nose of a beast, as of swine.

2. The nose of a man; -- in contempt. Hudibras.

3. The nozzle of a pipe, hose, etc.

4. (Zool.)
(a) The anterior prolongation of the head of a gastropod; -- called
also rostrum.
(b) The anterior prolongation of the head of weevils and allied
beetles. Snout beetle (Zool.), any one of many species of beetles
having an elongated snout and belonging to the tribe Rhynchophora; a
weevil.
 -- Snout moth (Zool.), any pyralid moth. See Pyralid.

SNOUT
Snout, v. t.

Defn: To furnish with a nozzle or point.

SNOUTY
Snout"y, a.

Defn: Resembling a beast's snout.
The nose was ugly, long, and big, Broad and snouty like a pig. Otway.

SNOW
Snow, n. Etym: [LG. snaue, or D. snaauw, from LG. snau a snout, a
beak.] (Naut.)

Defn: A square-rigged vessel, differing from a brig only in that she
has a trysail mast close abaft the mainmast, on which a large trysail
is hoisted.

SNOW
Snow, n. Etym: [OE. snow, snaw, AS. snaw; akin to D. sneeuw, OS. &
OHG. sneo, G. schnee, Icel. sn?r, snjor, snajar, Sw. sno, Dan. snee,
Goth. snaiws, Lith. snegas, Russ. snieg', Ir. & Gael. sneachd, W.
nyf, L. nix, nivis, Gr. acc. ni`fa, also AS. sniwan to snow, G.
schneien, OHG. sniwan, Lith. snigti, L. ningit it snows, Gr. ni`fei,
Zend snizh to snow; cf. Skr. snih to be wet or sticky. sq. root172.]

1. Watery particles congealed into white or transparent crystals or
flakes in the air, and falling to the earth, exhibiting a great
variety of very beautiful and perfect forms.

Note: Snow is often used to form compounds, most of which are of
obvious meaning; as, snow-capped, snow-clad, snow-cold, snow-crowned,
snow-crust, snow-fed, snow-haired, snowlike, snow-mantled, snow-
nodding, snow-wrought, and the like.

2. Fig.: Something white like snow, as the white color (argent) in
heraldry; something which falls in, or as in, flakes.
The field of snow with eagle of black therein. Chaucer.
Red snow. See under Red. Snow bunting. (Zool.) See Snowbird, 1.
 -- Snow cock (Zool.), the snow pheasant.
 -- Snow flea (Zool.), a small black leaping poduran (Achorutes
nivicola) often found in winter on the snow in vast numbers.
 -- Snow flood, a flood from melted snow.
 -- Snow flower (Bot.), the fringe tree.
 -- Snow fly, or Snow insect (Zool.), any one of several species of
neuropterous insects of the genus Boreus. The male has rudimentary
wings; the female is wingless. These insects sometimes appear
creeping and leaping on the snow in great numbers.
 -- Snow gnat (Zool.), any wingless dipterous insect of the genus
Chionea found running on snow in winter.
 -- Snow goose (Zool.), any one of several species of arctic geese of
the genus Chen. The common snow goose (Chen hyperborea), common in
the Western United States in winter, is white, with the tips of the
wings black and legs and bill red. Called also white brant, wavey,
and Texas goose. The blue, or blue-winged, snow goose (C.
coerulescens) is varied with grayish brown and bluish gray, with the
wing quills black and the head and upper part of the neck white.
Called also white head, white-headed goose, and bald brant.
 -- Snow leopard (Zool.), the ounce.
 -- Snow line, lowest limit of perpetual snow. In the Alps this is at
an altitude of 9,000 feet, in the Andes, at the equator, 16,000 feet.
 -- Snow mouse (Zool.), a European vole (Arvicola nivalis) which
inhabits the Alps and other high mountains.
 -- Snow pheasant (Zool.), any one of several species of large,
handsome gallinaceous birds of the genus Tetraogallus, native of the
lofty mountains of Asia. The Himalayn snow pheasant (T.Himalayensis)
in the best-known species. Called also snow cock, and snow chukor.
 -- Snow partridge. (Zool.) See under Partridge.
 -- Snow pigeon (Zool.), a pigeon (Columba leuconota) native of the
Himalaya mountains. Its back, neck, and rump are white, the top of
the head and the ear coverts are black.
 -- Snow plant (Bot.), a fleshy parasitic herb (Sarcodes sanguinea)
growing in the coniferous forests of California. It is all of a
bright red color, and is fabled to grow from the snow, through which
it sometimes shoots up.

SNOW
Snow, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Snowed (; p. pr. & vb. n. Snowing.]

Defn: To fall in or as snow; -- chiefly used impersonally; as, it
snows; it snowed yesterday.

SNOW
Snow, v. t.

Defn: To scatter like snow; to cover with, or as with, snow. Donne.
Shak.

SNOWBALL
Snow"ball`, n.

1. A round mass of snow pressed or roller together, or anything
resembling such a mass.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The Guelder-rose. Snowball tree (Bot.), the Guelder-rose.

SNOWBALL
Snow"ball`, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snowballed; p. pr. & vb. n.
Snowballing.]

Defn: To pelt with snowballs; to throw snowballs at.

SNOWBALL
Snow"ball`, v. i.

Defn: To throw snowballs.

SNOW BANNER
Snow banner.

Defn: A bannerlike stream of snow blown into the air from a mountain
peak, often having a pinkish color and extending horizontally for
several miles across the sky.

SNOWBERRY
Snow"ber`ry, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A name of several shrubs with white berries; as, the
Symphoricarpus racemosus of the Northern United States, and the
Chiococca racemosa of Florida and tropical America. Creeping
snowberry. (Bot.) See under Creeping.

SNOWBIRD
Snow"bird, n. (Zool.)
(a) An arctic finch (Plectrophenax, or Plectrophanes, nivalis)
common, in winter, both in Europe and the United States, and often
appearing in large flocks during snowstorms. It is partially white,
but variously marked with chestnut and brown. Called also snow
bunting, snowflake, snowfleck, and snowflight.
(b) Any finch of the genus Junco which appears in flocks in winter
time, especially J. hyemalis in the Eastern United States; -- called
also blue snowbird. See Junco.
(c) The fieldfare. [Prov. Eng.]

SNOW-BLIND
Snow"-blind`, a.

Defn: Affected with blindness by the brilliancy of snow.
 -- Snow"-blind`ness, n.

SNOW-BOUND
Snow"-bound`, a.

Defn: Enveloped in, or confined by, snow. Whittier.

SNOW-BROTH
Snow"-broth`, n.

Defn: Snow and water mixed, or snow just melted; very cold liquor.
Shak.

SNOWCAP
Snow"cap`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A very small humming bird (Microch?ra albocoronata) native of
New Grenada.

Note: The feathers of the top of the head are white and snining, the
body blue black with a purple and bronzy luster. The name is applied
also to Microch?ra parvirostris of Central America, which is similar
in color.

SNOW-CAPPED
Snow"-capped`, a.

Defn: Having the top capped or covered with snow; as, snow-capped
mountains.

SNOWDRIFT
Snow"drift`, n.

Defn: A bank of drifted snow.

SNOWDROP
Snow"drop`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A bulbous plant (Galanthus nivalis) bearing white flowers,
which often appear while the snow is on the ground. It is cultivated
in gardens for its beauty. Snowdrop tree. See Silver-bell tree, under
Silver, a.

SNOWFLAKE
Snow"flake`, n.

1. A flake, or small filmy mass, of snow.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: See Snowbird, 1.

3. (Bot.)

Defn: A name given to several bulbous plants of the genus Leucoium
(L. vernum, ?stivum, etc.) resembling the snowdrop, but having all
the perianth leaves of equal size.

SNOWFLECK
Snow"fleck`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: See Snowbird, 1.

SNOWL
Snowl, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The hooded merganser. [Local, U.S.]

SNOWLESS
Snow"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of snow.

SNOWPLOW; SNOWPLOUGH
Snow"plow`, Snow"plough`, n.

Defn: An implement operating like a plow, but on a larger scale, for
clearing away the snow from roads, railways, etc.

SNOWSHED
Snow"shed, n.

Defn: A shelter to protect from snow, esp. a long roof over an
exposed part of a railroad.

SNOWSHOE
Snow"shoe`, n.

Defn: A slight frame of wood three or four feet long and about one
third as wide, with thongs or cords stretched across it, and having a
support and holder for the foot; -- used by persons for walking on
soft snow.

SNOWSHOEING
Snow"shoe`ing, n.

Defn: Traveling on snowshoes.

SNOWSHOER
Snow"sho`er, n.

Defn: One who travels on snowshoes; an expert in using snowshoes. W.
G. Beers.

SNOWSLIP
Snow"slip`, n.

Defn: A large mass or avalanche of snow which slips down the side of
a mountain, etc.

SNOWSTORM
Snow"storm`, n.

Defn: A storm with falling snow.

SNOW-WHITE
Snow"-white`, a.

Defn: White as snow; very white. "Snow-white and rose-red" Chaucer.

SNOWY
Snow"y, a.

1. White like snow. "So shows a snowy dove trooping with crows."
Shak.

2. Abounding with snow; covered with snow. "The snowy top of cold
Olympus." Milton.

3. Fig.: Pure; unblemished; unstained; spotless.
There did he lose his snowy innocence. J. Hall (1646).
Snowy heron (Zool.), a white heron, or egret (Ardea candidissima),
found in the Southern United States, and southward to Chili; --
called also plume bird.
 -- Snowy lemming (Zool.), the collared lemming (Cuniculus
torquatus), which turns white in winter.
 -- Snowy owl (Zool.), a large arctic owl (Nyctea Scandiaca, or N.
nivea) common all over the northern parts of the United States and
Europe in winter time. Its plumage is sometimes nearly pure white,
but it is usually more or less marked with blackish spots. Called
also white owl.
 -- Snowy plover (Zool.), a small plover (?gialitis nivosa) of the
western parts of the United States and Mexico. It is light gray
above, with the under parts and portions of the head white.

SNUB
Snub, v. i. Etym: [Cf. D. snuiven to snort, to pant, G. schnauben,
MHG. snuben, Prov. G. schnupfen, to sob, and E. snuff, v.t.]

Defn: To sob with convulsions. [Obs.] Bailey.

SNUB
Snub, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snubbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Snubbing.] Etym:
[Cf. Icel. ssnubba to snub, chide, Sw. snubba, Icel. snubbottr
snubbed, nipped, and E. snib.]

1. To clip or break off the end of; to check or stunt the growth of;
to nop.

2. To check, stop, or rebuke, with a tart, sarcastic reply or remark;
to reprimand; to check. J. Foster.

3. To treat with contempt or neglect, as a forward or pretentious
person; to slight designedly. To snub a cable or rope (Naut.), to
check it suddenly in running out. Totten.

SNUB
Snub, n.

1. A knot; a protuberance; a song. [Obs.]
[A club] with ragged snubs and knotty grain. Spenser.

2. A check or rebuke; an intended slight. J. Foster.
Snub nose, a short or flat nose.
 -- Snub post, or Snubbing post (Naut.), a post on a dock or shore,
around which a rope is thrown to check the motion of a vessel.

SNUB-NOSED
Snub"-nosed`, a.

Defn: Having a short, flat nose, slightly turned up; as, the snub-
nosed eel. Snub-nosed cachalot (Zool.), the pygmy sperm whale.

SNUDGE
Snudge, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Snug.]

Defn: To lie snug or quiet. [Obs.] Herbert.

SNUDGE
Snudge, n.

Defn: A miser; a sneaking fellow. [Obs.]

SNUFF
Snuff, n. Etym: [Cf. G. schnuppe candle snuff, schnuppen to snuff a
candle (see Snuff, v. t., to snuff a candle), or cf. Snub, v. t.]

Defn: The part of a candle wick charred by the flame, whether burning
or not.
If the burning snuff happens to get out of the snuffers, you have a
chance that it may fall into a dish of soup. Swift.

SNUFF
Snuff, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snuffed; p. pr. & vb. n. Snuffing.] Etym:
[OE. snuffen. See Snuff of a candle Snuff to sniff.]

Defn: To crop the snuff of, as a candle; to take off the end of the
snuff of. To snuff out, to extinguish by snuffing.

SNUFF
Snuff, v. t.Etym: [Akin to D. snuffen, G. schnupfen, schnuppen, to
snuff, schnupfen a cold in the head, schnuppen to snuff (air), also,
to snuff (a candle). Cf. Sniff, Snout, Snub, v. i.]

1. To draw in, or to inhale, forcibly through the nose; to sniff.
He snuffs the wind, his heels the sand excite. Dryden.

2. To perceive by the nose; to scent; to smell.

SNUFF
Snuff, v. i.

1. To inhale air through the nose with violence or with noise, as do
dogs and horses. Dryden.

2. To turn up the nose and inhale air, as an expression of contempt;
hence, to take offense.
Do the enemies of the church rage and snuff Bp. Hall.

SNUFF
Snuff, n.

1. The act of snuffing; perception by snuffing; a sniff.

2. Pulverized tobacco, etc., prepared to be taken into the nose;
also, the amount taken at once.

3. Resentment, displeasure, or contempt, expressed by a snuffing of
the nose. [Obs.] Snuff dipping. See Dipping, n., 5.
 -- Snuff taker, one who uses snuff by inhaling it through the nose.
 -- To take it in snuff, to be angry or offended. Shak.
 -- Up to snuff, not likely to be imposed upon; knowing; acute.
[Slang]

SNUFFBOX
Snuff"box`, n.

Defn: A small box for carrying snuff about the person.

SNUFFER
Snuff"er, n.

1. One who snuffs.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: The common porpoise.

SNUFFERS
Snuff"ers, n. pl.

Defn: An instrument for cropping and holding the snuff of a candle.

SNUFFINGLY
Snuff"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a snuffing manner.

SNUFFLE
Snuf"fle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Snuffled(); p. pr. & vb. n. Snuffling.]
Etym: [Freq. of snuff, v.i.; akin to LG. snuffeln, G. schnuffeln, D.
snuffeln, Dan. snovle. Cf. Sniffle.]

Defn: To speak through the nose; to breathe through the nose when it
is obstructed, so as to make a broken sound.
One clad in purple Eats, and recites some lamentable rhyme . . .
Snuffling at nose, and croaking in his throat. Dryden.

SNUFFLE
Snuf"fle, n.

1. The act of snuffing; a sound made by the air passing through the
nose when obstructed.
This dread sovereign, Breath, in its passage, gave a snort or
snuffle. Coleridge.

2. An affected nasal twang; hence, cant; hypocrisy.

3. pl.

Defn: Obstruction of the nose by mucus; nasal catarrh of infants or
children. [Colloq.]

SNUFFLER
Snuf"fler, n.

Defn: One who snuffles; one who uses cant.

SNUFFY
Snuff"y, a.

1. Soiled with snuff.

2. Sulky; angry; vexed. [Obs. or Scot.] Jamieson.

SNUG
Snug, a. [Compar. Snugger; superl. Snuggest.] Etym: [Prov. E. snug
tight, handsome; cf. Icel. snoggr smooth, ODan. snog neat, Sw.
snugg.]

1. Close and warm; as, an infant lies snug.

2. Close; concealed; not exposed to notice.
Lie snug, and hear what critics say. Swift.

3. Compact, convenient, and comfortable; as, a snug farm, house, or
property.

SNUG
Snug, n. (Mach.)

Defn: Same as Lug, n., 3.

SNUG
Snug, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Snugged; p. pr. & vb. n. Snugging().]

Defn: To lie close; to snuggle; to snudge; -- often with up, or
together; as, a child snugs up to its mother.

SNUG
Snug, v. t.

1. To place snugly. [R.] Goldsmith.

2. To rub, as twine or rope, so as to make it smooth and improve the
finish.

SNUGGERY
Snug"ger*y, n.; pl. Snuggeries (.

Defn: A snug, cozy place. [Colloq.] Dickens.

SNUGGLE
Snug"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Snuggled; p. pr. & vb. n. Snuggling.]
Etym: [Freq. of snug.]

Defn: To move one way and the other so as to get a close place; to
lie close for comfort; to cuddle; to nestle.

SNUGLY
Snug"ly, adv.

Defn: In a snug manner; closely; safely.

SNUGNESS
Snug"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being snug.

SNY
Sny, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. snua to turn.]

Defn: An upward bend in a piece of timber; the sheer of a vessel.

SNYING
Sny"ing, n. (Naut.)

Defn: A curved plank, placed edgewise, to work in the bows of a
vessel. R. H. Dana, Jr.

SO
So, adv. Etym: [OE. so, sa, swa, AS. swa; akin to OFries, sa, s, D.
zoo, OS. & OHG. s, G. so, Icel. sva, sv, svo, so, Sw. s, Dan. saa,
Goth. swa so, sw as; cf. L. suus one's own, Skr. sva one's own, one's
self. sq. root192. Cf. As, Custom, Ethic, Idiom, Such.]

1. In that manner or degree; as, indicated (in any way), or as
implied, or as supposed to be known.
Why is his chariot so long in coming Judges v. 28.

2. In like manner or degree; in the same way; thus; for like reason;
whith equal reason; -- used correlatively, following as, to denote
comparison or resemblance; sometimes, also, following inasmuch as.
As a war should be undertaken upon a just motive, so a prince ought
to consider the condition he is in. Swift.

3. In such manner; to such degree; -- used correlatively with as or
that following; as, he was so fortunate as to escape.
I viewed in may mind, so far as I was able, the beginning and
progress of a rising world. T. Burnet.
He is very much in Sir Roger's esteem, so that he lives in the family
rather as a relation than dependent. Addison.

4. Very; in a high degree; that is, in such a degree as can not well
be expressed; as, he is so good; he planned so wisely.

5. In the same manner; as has been stated or suggested; in this or
that condition or state; under these circumstances; in this way; --
with reflex reference to something just asserted or implied; used
also with the verb to be, as a predicate.
Use him [your tutor] with great respect yourself, and cause all your
family to do so too. Locke.
It concerns every man, with the greatest seriousness, to inquire into
those matters, whether they be so or not. Tillotson.
He is Sir Robert's son, and so art thou. Shak.

6. The case being such; therefore; on this account; for this reason;
on these terms; -- used both as an adverb and a conjuction.
God makes him in his own image an intellectual creature, and so
capable of dominion. Locke.
Here, then, exchange we mutually forgiveness; So may the guilt of all
my broken vows, My perjuries to thee, be all forgotten. Rowe.

7. It is well; let it be as it is, or let it come to pass; -- used to
express assent.
And when 't is writ, for my sake read it over, And if it please you,
so; if not, why, so. Shak.
There is Percy; if your father will do me any honor, so; if not, let
him kill the next Percy himself. Shak.

8. Well; the fact being as stated; -- used as an expletive; as, so
the work is done, is it

9. Is it thus do you mean what you say -- with an upward tone; as, do
you say he refuses So [Colloq.]

10. About the number, time, or quantity specified; thereabouts; more
or less; as, I will spend a week or so in the country; I have read
only a page or so.
A week or so will probably reconcile us. Gay.

Note: See the Note under Ill, adv. So . . . as. So is now commonly
used as a demonstrative correlative of as when it is the puprpose to
emphasize the equality or comparison suggested, esp. in negative
assertions, and questions implying a negative answer. By Shakespeare
and others so . . . as was much used where as . . . as is now common.
See the Note under As, 1.
So do, as thou hast said. Gen. xviii. 5.
As a flower of the field, so he flourisheth. Ps. ciii. 15.
Had woman been so strong as men. Shak.
No country suffered so much as England. Macaulay.
-- So far, to that point or extent; in that particular. "The song was
moral, and so far was right." Cowper.
 -- So far forth, as far; to such a degree. Shak. Bacon.
 -- So forth, further in the same or similar manner; more of the same
or a similar kind. See And so forth, under And.
 -- So, so, well, well. "So, so, it works; now, mistress, sit you
fast." Dryden. Also, moderately or tolerably well; passably; as, he
succeeded but so so. "His leg is but so so." Shak.
 -- So that, to the end that; in order that; with the effect or
result that.
 -- So then, thus then it is; therefore; the consequence is.

SO
So, conj.

Defn: Provided that; on condition that; in case that; if.
Though all the winds of doctrine were let loose play upon the earth,
so truth be in the field, we do injuriously, by licensing and
prohibiting, to misdoubt her strength. Milton.

SO
So, interj.

Defn: Be as you are; stand still; stop; that will do; right as you
are; -- a word used esp. to cows; also used by sailors.

SOAK
Soak, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Soaked; p. pr. & vb. n. Soaking.] Etym:
[OE. soken, AS. socian to sioak, steep, fr. s, s, to suck. See Suck.]

1. To cause or suffer to lie in a fluid till the substance has
imbibed what it can contain; to macerate in water or other liquid; to
steep, as for the purpose of softening or freshening; as, to soak
cloth; to soak bread; to soak salt meat, salt fish, or the like.

2. To drench; to wet thoroughly.
Their land shall be soaked with blood. Isa. xxiv. 7.

3. To draw in by the pores, or through small passages; as, a sponge
soaks up water; the skin soaks in moisture.

4. To make (its way) by entering pores or interstices; -- often with
through.
The rivulet beneath soaked its way obscurely through wreaths of snow.
Sir W. Scott.

5. Fig.: To absorb; to drain. [Obs.] Sir H. Wotton.

SOAK
Soak, v. i.

1. To lie steeping in water or other liquid; to become sturated; as,
let the cloth lie and soak.

2. To enter (into something) by pores or interstices; as, water soaks
into the earth or other porous matter.

3. To drink intemperately or gluttonously. [Slang]

SOAKAGE
Soak"age, n.

Defn: The act of soaking, or the state of being soaked; also, the
quantity that enters or issues by soaking.

SOAKER
Soak"er, n.

1. One who, or that which, soaks.

2. A hard drinker. [Slang] South.

SOAKING
Soak"ing, a.

Defn: Wetting thoroughly; drenching; as, a soaking rain.
 -- Soak"ing*ly, adv.

SOAKY
Soak"y, a.

Defn: Full of moisture; wet; soppy.

SOAL
Soal, n.

1. The sole of a shoe. [Obs. or R.]

2. (Zool.)

Defn: See Sole, the fish. [Obs.]

SOAL
Soal, n. Etym: [AS. sol mire. Cf. Sully.]

Defn: A dirty pond. [Prov. Eng.] Halliwell.

SOAM
Soam, n.

Defn: A chain by which a leading horse draws a plow. Knight.

SOAP
Soap, n. Etym: [OE. sope, AS. sape; akin to D. zeep, G. seife, OHG.
seifa, Icel. sapa, Sw. s, Dan. s, and perhaps to AS. sipan to drip,
MHG. sifen, and L. sebum tallow. Cf. Saponaceous.]

Defn: A substance which dissolves in water, thus forming a lather,
and is used as a cleansing agent. Soap is produced by combining fats
or oils with alkalies or alkaline earths, usually by boiling, and
consists of salts of sodium, potassium, etc., with the fatty acids
(oleic, stearic, palmitic, etc.). See the Note below, and cf.
Saponification. By extension, any compound of similar composition or
properties, whether used as a cleaning agent or not.

Note: In general, soaps are of two classes, hard and soft. Calcium,
magnesium, lead, etc., form soaps, but they are insoluble and
useless.
The purifying action of soap depends upon the fact that it is
decomposed by a large quantity of water into free alkali and an
insoluble acid salt. The first of these takes away the fatty dirt on
washing, and the latter forms the soap lather which envelops the
greasy matter and thus tends to remove it. Roscoe & Schorlemmer.
Castile soap, a fine-grained hard soap, white or mottled, made of
olive oil and soda; -- called also Marseilles, or Venetian, soap.
 -- Hard soap, any one of a great variety of soaps, of different
ingredients and color, which are hard and compact. All solid soaps
are of this class.
 -- Lead soap, an insoluble, white, pliable soap made by saponifying
an oil (olive oil) with lead oxide; -- used externally in medicine.
Called also lead plaster, diachylon, etc.
 -- Marine soap. See under Marine.
 -- Pills of soap (Med.), pills containing soap and opium.
 -- Potash soap, any soap made with potash, esp. the soft soaps, and
a hard soap made from potash and castor oil.
 -- Pumice soap, any hard soap charged with a gritty powder, as
silica, alumina, powdered pumice, etc., which assists mechanically in
the removal of dirt.
 -- Resin soap, a yellow soap containing resin, -- used in bleaching.
 -- Silicated soap, a cheap soap containing water glass (sodium
silicate).
 -- Soap bark. (Bot.) See Quillaia bark.
 -- Soap bubble, a hollow iridescent globe, formed by blowing a film
of soap suds from a pipe; figuratively, something attractive, but
extremely unsubstantial.
This soap bubble of the metaphysicians. J. C. Shairp.
-- Soap cerate, a cerate formed of soap, olive oil, white wax, and
the subacetate of lead, sometimes used as an application to allay
inflammation.
 -- Soap fat, the refuse fat of kitchens, slaughter houses, etc.,
used in making soap.
 -- Soap liniment (Med.), a liniment containing soap, camphor, and
alcohol.
 -- Soap nut, the hard kernel or seed of the fruit of the soapberry
tree, -- used for making beads, buttons, etc.
 -- Soap plant (Bot.), one of several plants used in the place of
soap, as the Chlorogalum pomeridianum, a California plant, the bulb
of which, when stripped of its husk and rubbed on wet clothes, makes
a thick lather, and smells not unlike new brown soap. It is called
also soap apple, soap bulb, and soap weed.
 -- Soap tree. (Bot.) Same as Soapberry tree.
 -- Soda soap, a soap containing a sodium salt. The soda soaps are
all hard soaps.
 -- Soft soap, a soap of a gray or brownish yellow color, and of a
slimy, jellylike consistence, made from potash or the lye from wood
ashes. It is strongly alkaline and often contains glycerin, and is
used in scouring wood, in cleansing linen, in dyehouses, etc.
Figuratively, flattery; wheedling; blarney. [Colloq.] -- Toilet soap,
hard soap for the toilet, usually colored and perfumed.

SOAP
Soap, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Soaped; p. pr. & vb. n. Soaping.]

1. To rub or wash over with soap.

2. To flatter; to wheedle. [Slang]

SOAPBERRY TREE
Soap"ber`ry tree`. (Bot.)

Defn: Any tree of the genus Sapindus, esp. Sapindus saponaria, the
fleshy part of whose fruit is used instead of soap in washing linen;
-- also called soap tree.

SOAPFISH
Soap"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any serranoid fish of the genus Rhypticus; -- so called from
the soapy feeling of its skin.

SOAPINESS
Soap"i*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being soapy.

SOAPROOT
Soap"root`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A perennial herb (Gypsophila Struthium) the root of which is
used in Spain as a substitute for soap.

SOAPSTONE
Soap"stone`, n.

Defn: See Steatite, and Talc.

SOAPSUDS
Soap"suds`, n. pl.

Defn: Suds made with soap.

SOAPWORT
Soap"wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A common plant (Saponaria officinalis) of the Pink family; --
so called because its bruised leaves, when agitated in water, produce
a lather like that from soap. Called also Bouncing Bet.

SOAPY
Soap"y, a. [Compar. Soapier; superl. Soapiest.]

1. Resembling soap; having the qualities of, or feeling like, soap;
soft and smooth.

2. Smeared with soap; covered with soap.

SOAR
Soar, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Soared; p. pr. & vb. n. Soaring.] Etym: [F.
s'essorer to soar, essorer to dry (by exposing to the air), fr. L. ex
out + aura the air, a breeze; akin to Gr.

1. To fly aloft, as a bird; to mount upward on wings, or as on wings.
Chaucer.
When soars Gaul's vulture with his wings unfurled. Byron.

2. Fig.: To rise in thought, spirits, or imagination; to be exalted
in mood.
Where the deep transported mind may soar. Milton.
Valor soars above What the world calls misfortune. Addison.

SOAR
Soar, n.

Defn: The act of soaring; upward flight.
This apparent soar of the hooded falcon. Coleridge.

SOAR
Soar, a.

Defn: See 3d Sore. [Obs.]

SOAR
Soar, a.

Defn: See Sore, reddish brown. Soar falcon. (Zool.) See Sore falcon,
under Sore.

SOARING
Soar"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Soar.
 -- Soar"ing*ly, adv.

SOAVE
So*a"ve, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Sweet.

SOAVEMENTE
So*a`ve*men"te, adv. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Sweetly.

SOB
Sob, v. t. Etym: [See Sop.]

Defn: To soak. [Obs.] Mortimer.

SOB
Sob, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sobbed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sobbing.] Etym: [OE.
sobben; akin to AS. seofian, siofian, to complain, bewail, seofung,
siofung, sobbing, lamentation; cf. OHG. s, s, to sigh, MHG. siuften,
siufzen, G. seufzen, MHG. s a sigh, properly, a drawing in of breath,
from s to drink, OHG. s. Cf. Sup.]

Defn: To sigh with a sudden heaving of the breast, or with a kind of
convulsive motion; to sigh with tears, and with a convulsive drawing
in of the breath.
Sobbing is the same thing [as sighing], stronger. Bacon.
She sighed, she sobbed, and, furious with despair. She rent her
garments, and she tore her hair. Dryden.

SOB
Sob, n.

1. The act of sobbing; a convulsive sigh, or inspiration of the
breath, as in sorrow.
Break, heart, or choke with sobs my hated breath. Dryden.

2. Any sorrowful cry or sound.
The tremulous sob of the complaining owl. Wordsworth.

SOBBING
Sob"bing, n.

Defn: A series of short, convulsive inspirations, the glottis being
suddenly closed so that little or no air enters into the lungs.

SOBER
Sober, a. [Compar. Soberer; superl. Soberest.] Etym: [OE. sobre, F.
sobre, from L. sobrius, probably from a prefix so- expressing
separation + ebrius drunken. Cf. Ebriety.]

1. Temperate in the use of spirituous liquors; habitually temperate;
as, a sober man.
That we may hereafter live a godly, righteous, and sober life, to the
glory of Thy holy name. Bk. of Com. Prayer.

2. Not intoxicated or excited by spirituous liquors; as, the sot may
at times be sober.

3. Not mad or insane; not wild, visionary, or heated with passion;
exercising cool, dispassionate reason; self-controlled; self-
possessed.
There was not a sober person to be had; all was tempestuous and
blustering. Druden.
No sober man would put himself into danger for the applause of
escaping without breaking his neck. Dryden.

4. Not proceeding from, or attended with, passion; calm; as, sober
judgment; a man in his sober senses.

5. Serious or subdued in demeanor, habit, appearance, or color;
solemn; grave; sedate.
What parts gay France from sober Spain Prior.
See her sober over a sampler, or gay over a jointed baby. Pope.
Twilight gray Had in her sober livery all things clad. Milton.

Syn.
 -- Grave; temperate; abstinent; abstemious; moderate; regular;
steady; calm; quiet; cool; collected; dispassionate; unimpassioned;
sedate; staid; serious; solemn; somber. See Grave.

SOBER
So"ber, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sobered; p. pr. & vb. n. Sobering.]

Defn: To make sober.
There shallow draughts intoxicate the brain, And drinking largely
sobers us again. Pope.

SOBER
So"ber, v. i.

Defn: To become sober; -- often with down.
Vance gradually sobered down. Ld. Lytton.

SOBERIZE
So"ber*ize, v. t. & i.

Defn: To sober. [R.] Crabbe.

SOBERLY
So"ber*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sober manner; temperately; cooly; calmly; gravely;
seriously.

SOBERLY
So"ber*ly, a.

Defn: Grave; serious; solemn; sad. [Obs.]
[He] looked hollow and thereto soberly. Chaucer.

SOBER-MINDED
So"ber-mind`ed, a.

Defn: Having a disposition or temper habitually sober.
 -- So"ber-mind`ed*ness, n.

SOBERNESS
So"ber*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sober.

SOBOLES
Sob"o*les, n. Etym: [L., a short.] (Bot.)
(a) A shoot running along under ground, forming new plants at short
distances.
(b) A sucker, as of tree or shrub.

SOBOLIFEROUS
Sob`o*lif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. soboles + -ferous.] (Bot.)

Defn: Producing soboles. See Illust. of Houseleek.

SOBRANJE
So*bran"je, n. [Bulgarian, lit., assembly.]

Defn: The unicameral national assembly of Bulgaria, elected for a
term of five years by universal suffrage of adult males.

SOBRIETY
So*bri"e*ty, n. Etym: [L. sobrietas: cf. F. sobriete. See Sober.]

1. Habitual soberness or temperance as to the use of spirituous
liquors; as, a man of sobriety.
Public sobriety is a relative duty. Blackstone.

2. Habitual freedom from enthusiasm, inordinate passion, or
overheated imagination; calmness; coolness; gravity; seriousness; as,
the sobriety of riper years.
Mirth makes them not mad, Nor sobriety sad. Denham.

Syn.
 -- Soberness; temperance; abstinence; abstemiousness; moderation;
regularity; steadness; calmness; coolness; sober-mindeness;
sedateness; staidness; gravity; seriousness; solemnity.

SOBRIQUET
So`bri`quet" (so`bre`kay"), n.Etym: [F. sobriquet, OF. soubzbriquet,
soubriquet, a chuck under the chin, hence, an affront, a nickname; of
uncertain origin; cf. It. sottobecco a chuck under the chin.]

Defn: An assumed name; a fanciful epithet or appellation; a nickname.
[Sometimes less correctly written soubriquet.]

SOC
Soc (sok), n. Etym: [AS. s the power of holding court, sway, domain,
properly, the right of investigating or seeking; akin to E. sake,
seek. Sake, Seek, and cf. Sac, and Soke.] [Written also sock, and
soke.]

1. (O. Eng. Law)
(a) The lord's power or privilege of holding a court in a district,
as in manor or lordship; jurisdiction of causes, and the limits of
that jurisdiction.
(b) Liberty or privilege of tenants excused from customary burdens.

2. An exclusive privilege formerly claimed by millers of grrinding
all the corn used within the manor or township which the mill stands.
[Eng.] Soc and sac (O. Eng. Law), the full right of administering
justice in a manor or lordship.

SOCAGE
Soc"age, n.Etym: [From Soc; cf. LL. socagium.] (O.Eng. Law)

Defn: A tenure of lands and tenements by a certain or determinate
service; a tenure distinct from chivalry or knight's service, in
which the obligations were uncertain. The service must be certain, in
order to be denominated socage, as to hold by fealty and twenty
shillings rent. [Written also soccage.]

Note: Socage is of two kinds; free socage, where the services are not
only certain, but honorable; and villein socage, where the services,
though certain, are of a baser nature. Blackstone.

SOCAGER
Soc"a*ger, n. (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: A tennant by socage; a socman.

SO-CALLED
So"-called`, a.

Defn: So named; called by such a name (but perhaps called thus with
doubtful propriety).

SOCIABILITY
So`cia*bil"i*ty, n.Etym: [Cf. F. sociabilite.]

Defn: The quality of being sociable; sociableness.

SOCIABLE
So"cia*ble, a.Etym: [F., fr. L. sociabilis, fr. sociare to associate,
fr. socius a companion. See Social.]

1. Capable of being, or fit to be, united in one body or company;
associable. [R.]
They are sociable parts united into one body. Hooker.

2. Inclined to, or adapted for, society; ready to unite with others;
fond of companions; social.
Society is no comfort to one not sociable. Shak.
What can be uneasy to this sociable creature than the dry, pensive
retirements of solitude South.

3. Ready to converse; inclined to talk with others; not taciturn or
reserved.

4. Affording opportunites for conversation; characterized by much
conversation; as, a sociable party.

5. No longer hostile; friendly. [Obs.] Beau & Fl. Sociable bird, or
Sociable weaver (Zool.), a weaver bird which builds composite nests.
See Republican, n., 3. (b).

Syn.
 -- Social; companionable; conversible; friendly; familiar;
communicative; accessible.

SOCIABLE
So"cia*ble, n.

1. A gathering of people for social purposes; an informal party or
reception; as, a church sociable. [Colloq. U. S.]

2. A carriage having two double seats facing each other, and a box
for the driver. Miss Edgeworth.

SOCIABLENESS
So"cia*ble*ness, n.

Defn: The quality of being sociable.

SOCIABLY
So"cia*bly, adv.

Defn: In a sociable manner.

SOCIAL
So"cial, a. Etym: [L. socialis, from socius a companion; akin to
sequi to follow: cf. F. social. See Sue to follow.]

1. Of or pertaining to society; relating to men living in society, or
to the public as an aggregate body; as, social interest or concerns;
social pleasure; social benefits; social happiness; social duties.
"Social phenomena." J. S. Mill.

2. Ready or disposed to mix in friendly converse; companionable;
sociable; as, a social person.

3. Consisting in union or mutual intercourse.
Best with thyself accompanied, seek'st not Social communication.
Milton.

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Naturally growing in groups or masses; -- said of many
individual plants of the same species.

5. (Zool.)
(a) Living in communities consisting of males, females, and neuters,
as do ants and most bees.
(b) Forming compound groups or colonies by budding from basal
processes or stolons; as, the social ascidians. Social science, the
science of all that relates to the social condition, the relations
and institutions which are involved in man's existence and his well-
being as a member of an organized community; sociology. It concerns
itself with questions of the public health, education, labor,
punishment of crime, reformation of criminals, and the like.
 -- Social whale (Zool.), the blackfish.
 -- The social evil, prostitution.

Syn.
 -- Sociable; companionable; conversible; friendly; familiar;
communicative; convival; festive.

SOCIALISM
So"cial*ism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. socialisme.]

Defn: A theory or system of social reform which contemplates a
complete reconstruction of society, with a more just and equitable
distribution of property and labor. In popular usage, the term is
often employed to indicate any lawless, revolutionary social scheme.
See Communism, Fourierism, Saint-Simonianism, forms of socialism.
[Socialism] was first applied in England to Owen's theory of social
reconstruction, and in France to those also of St. Simon and Fourier
. . . The word, however, is used with a great variety of meaning, . .
. even by economists and learned critics. The general tendency is to
regard as socialistic any interference undertaken by society on
behalf of the poor, . . . radical social reform which disturbs the
present system of private property . . . The tendency of the present
socialism is more and more to ally itself with the most advanced
democracy. Encyc. Brit.
We certainly want a true history of socialism, meaning by that a
history of every systematic attempt to provide a new social existence
for the mass of the workers. F. Harrison.

SOCIALIST
So"cial*ist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. socialiste.]

Defn: One who advocates or practices the doctrines of socialism.

SOCIALIST; SOCIALISTIC
So"cial*ist, So`cial*is"tic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, socialism.

SOCIALITY
So`ci*al"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. socialiste, L. socialitas.]

Defn: The quality of being social; socialness.

SOCIALIZE
So"cial*ize, v. t.

1. To render social.

2. To subject to, or regulate by, socialism.

SOCIALLY
So"cial*ly, adv.

Defn: In a social manner; sociably.

SOCIALNESS
So"cial*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being social.

SOCIATE
So"ci*ate, a. Etym: [L. sociatus, p. p. of sociare to associate, fr.
socius companion.]

Defn: Associated. [Obs.]

SOCIATE
So"ci*ate, n.

Defn: An associate. [Obs.]
As for you, Dr. Reynolds, and your sociates. Fuller.

SOCIATE
So"ci*ate, v. i.

Defn: To associate. [Obs.] Shelford.

SOCIETARIAN
So*ci`e*ta"ri*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to society; social.
The all-sweeping besom of societarian reformation. Lamb.

SOCIETARY
So*ci"e*ta*ry, a.

Defn: Societarian. [R.]

SOCIETY
So*ci"e*ty, n.; pl. Societies. Etym: [L. societas, fr. socius a
companion: cf. F. societe. See Social.]

1. The relationship of men to one another when associated in any way;
companionship; fellowship; company. "Her loved society." Milton.
There is society where none intrudes By the deep sea, and music in
its roar. Byron.

2. Connection; participation; partnership. [R.]
The meanest of the people and such as have the least society with the
acts and crimes of kings. Jer. Taylor.

3. A number of persons associated for any temporary or permanent
object; an association for mutual or joint usefulness, pleasure, or
profit; a social union; a partnership; as, a missionary society.

4. The persons, collectively considered, who live in any region or at
any period; any community of individuals who are united together by a
common bond of nearness or intercourse; those who recognize each
other as associates, friends, and acquaintances.

5. Specifically, the more cultivated portion of any community in its
social relations and influences; those who mutually give receive
formal entertainments. Society of Jesus. See Jesuit.
 -- Society verses Etym: [a translation of F. vers de societe], the
lightest kind of lyrical poetry; verses for the amusement of polite
society.

SOCINIAN
So*cin"i*an, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Socinus, or the Socinians.

SOCINIAN
So*cin"i*an, n.

Defn: One of the followers of Socinus; a believer in Socinianism.

SOCINIANISM
So*cin"i*an*ism, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: The tenets or doctrines of Faustus Socinus, an Italian
theologian of the sixteenth century, who denied the Trinity, the
deity of Christ, the personality of the Devil, the native and total
depravity of man, the vicarious atonement, and the eternity of future
punishment. His theory was, that Christ was a man divinely
commissioned, who had no existence before he was conceived by the
Virgin Mary; that human sin was the imitation of Adam's sin, and that
human salvation was the imitation and adoption of Christ's virtue;
that the Bible was to be interpreted by human reason; and that its
language was metaphorical, and not to be taken literally.

SOCINIANIZE
So*cin"i*an*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Socinianized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Socinianizing.]

Defn: To cause to conform to Socinianism; to regulate by, or imbue
with, the principles of Socinianism.

SOCIOLOGIC; SOCIOLOGICAL
So`ci*o*log"ic, So`ci*o*log"ic*al a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sociology, or social science.
 -- So`ci*o*log"ic*al*ly, adv.

SOCIOLOGIST
So`ci*ol"o*gist, n.

Defn: One who treats of, or devotes himself to, the study of
sociology. J. S. Mill.

SOCIOLOGY
So`ci*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [L. socius a companion + -logy.]

Defn: That branch of philosophy which treats of the constitution,
phenomena, and development of human society; social science. H.
Spencer.

SOCK
Sock, n. Etym: [F. soc, LL. soccus, perhaps of Celtic origin.]

Defn: A plowshare. Edin. Encyc.

SOCK
Sock, n. Etym: [OE. sock, AS. socc, fr. L. soccus a kind of low-
heeled, light shoe. Cf. Sucket.]

1. The shoe worn by actors of comedy in ancient Greece and Rome, --
used as a sumbol of comedy, of the comic drams, as distinguished from
tragedy, which is symbolized by the buskin.
Great Fletcher never treads in buskin here, Nor greater Jonson dares
in socks appear. Dryden.

2. A knit or woven covering for the foot and lower leg; a stocking
with a short leg.

3. A warm inner sole for a shoe. Simmonds.

SOCKDOLAGER
Sock*dol"a*ger, n. Etym: [A corruption of doxology.] [Written also
sockdologer.]

1. That which finishes or ends a matter; a settler; a poser, as a
heavy blow, a conclusive answer, and the like. [Slang, U.S.]

2. (Angling)

Defn: A combination of two hooks which close upon each other, by
means of a spring, as soon as the fish bites. [U. S.]

SOCKET
Sock"et, n. Etym: [OE. soket, a dim. through OF. fr. L. soccus. See
Sock a covering for the foot.]

1. An opening into which anything is fitted; any hollow thing or
place which receives and holds something else; as, the sockets of the
teeth.
His eyeballs in their hollow sockets sink. Dryden.

2. Especially, the hollow tube or place in which a candle is fixed in
the candlestick.
And in the sockets oily bubbles dance. Dryden.
Socket bolt (Mach.), a bolt that passes through a thimble that is
placed between the parts connected by the bolt.
 -- Socket chisel. Same as Framing chisel. See under Framing.
 -- Socket pipe, a pipe with an expansion at one end to receive the
end of a connecting pipe.
 -- Socket pole, a pole armed with iron fixed on by means of a
socket, and used to propel boats, etc. [U.S.] -- Socket wrench, a
wrench consisting of a socket at the end of a shank or rod, for
turning a nut, bolthead, etc., in a narrow or deep recess.

SOCKETED
Sock"et*ed, a.

Defn: Having a socket. Dawkins.

SOCKLESS
Sock"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of socks or shoes. B. & Fl.

SOCKY
Sock"y, a.

Defn: Wet; soaky. [Prov. Eng.]

SOCLE
So"cle, n. Etym: [F., fr. L. socculus, dim. of soccus. See Sock a
covering for the foot. Cf. Zocco.] (Arch.)
(a) A plain block or plinth forming a low pedestal; any base;
especially, the base of a statue, column, or the like. See Plinth.
(b) A plain face or plinth at the lower part of a wall. Oxf. Gloss.

SOCMAN
Soc"man, n.; pl. Socmen. Etym: [See Socage.] (O. Eng. Law)

Defn: One who holds lands or tenements by socage; a socager. Cowell.

SOCMANRY
Soc"man*ry, n. (O.E. Law)

Defn: Tenure by socage.

SOCOME
Soc"ome, n. Etym: [AS. socen, socn, searching, or the right of
searching, the lord's court. See Soc.] (O.Eng. Law)

Defn: A custom of tenants to grind corn at the lord's mill. Cowell.

SOCOTRINE
Soc"o*trine, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Socotra, an island in the Indian Ocean, on
the east coast of Africa.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Socotra.

SOCRATIC; SOCRATICAL
So*crat"ic, So*crat"ic*al, a. Etym: [L. Socraticus, Gr.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Socrates, the Grecian sage and teacher. (b.
c. 469-399), or to his manner of teaching and philosophizing.

Note: The Socratic method of reasoning and instruction was by a
series of questions leading the one to whom they were addressed to
perceive and admit what was true or false in doctrine, or right or
wrong in conduct.

SOCRATICALLY
So*crat"ic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In the Socratic method.

SOCRATISM
Soc"ra*tism, n.

Defn: The philosophy or the method of Socrates.

SOCRATIST
Soc"ra*tist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: A disciple or follower of Socrates.

SOD
Sod, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The rock dove. [Prov. Eng.]

SOD
Sod, obs.

Defn: imp. of Seethe.

SOD
Sod, n. Etym: [Akin to LG. sode, D. zode, OD. sode, soode, OFries.
satha, and E. seethe. So named from its sodden state in wet weather.
See Seethe.]

Defn: That stratum of the surface of the soil which is filled with
the roots of grass, or any portion of that surface; turf; sward.
She there shall dress a sweeter sod Than Fancy's feet have ever trod.
Collins.

SOD
Sod, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sodden; p. pr. & vb. n. Sodding.]

Defn: To cover with sod; to turf.

SODA
So"da, n. Etym: [It., soda, in OIt., ashes used in making glass, fr.
L. solida, fem. of solidus solid; solida having probably been a name
of glasswort. See Solid.] (Chem.)
(a) Sodium oxide or hydroxide.
(b) Popularly, sodium carbonate or bicarbonate. Caustic soda, sodium
hydroxide.
 -- Cooking soda, sodium bicarbonate. [Colloq.] -- Sal soda. See
Sodium carbonate, under Sodium.
 -- Soda alum (Min.), a mineral consisting of the hydrous sulphate of
alumina and soda.
 -- Soda ash, crude sodium carbonate; -- so called because formerly
obtained from the ashes of sea plants and certain other plants, as
saltwort (Salsola). See under Sodium.
 -- Soda fountain, an apparatus for drawing soda water, fitted with
delivery tube, faucets, etc.
 -- Soda lye, a lye consisting essentially of a solution of sodium
hydroxide, used in soap making.
 -- Soda niter. See Nitratine.
 -- Soda salts, salts having sodium for the base; specifically,
sodium sulphate or Glauber's salts.
 -- Soda waste, the waste material, consisting chiefly of calcium
hydroxide and sulphide, which accumulates as a useless residue or
side product in the ordinary Leblanc process of soda manufacture; --
called also alkali waste.
 -- Soda water, originally, a beverage consisting of a weak solution
of sodium bicarbonate, with some acid to cause effervescence; now, in
common usage, a beverage consisting of water highly charged with
carbon dioxide (carbonic acid). Fruit sirups, cream, etc., are
usually added to give flavor. See Carbonic acid, under Carbonic.
 -- Washing soda, sodium carbonate. [Colloq.]

SODAIC
So*da"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or containing, soda. "Sodaic powder." Ure.

SODALITE
So"da*lite, n. Etym: [Soda + -lite: cf. F. sodalithe.] (Min.)

Defn: A mineral of a white to blue or gray color, occuring commonly
in dodecahedrons, also massive. It is a silicate of alumina and soda
with some chlorine.

SODALITY
So*dal"i*ty, n.; pl. Sodalities. Etym: [L. sodalitas, fr. sodalis a
comrade.]

1. A fellowship or fraternity; a brotherhood.

2. (R.C.Ch.)

Defn: Specifically, a lay association for devotion or for charitable
purposes.

SODAMIDE
Sod*am"ide, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A greenish or reddish crystalline substance, NaNH2, obtained by
passing ammonia over heated sodium.

SODDEN
Sod"den, a. [p. p. of Seethe.]

Defn: Boiled; seethed; also, soaked; heavy with moisture; saturated;
as, sodden beef; sodden bread; sodden fields.

SODDEN
Sod"den, v. i.

Defn: To be seethed; to become sodden.

SODDEN
Sod"den, v. t.

Defn: To soak; to make heavy with water.

SODDEN-WITTED
Sod"den-wit`ted, a.

Defn: Heavy; dull. Shak.

SODDY
Sod"dy, a. Etym: [From Sod.]

Defn: Consisting of sod; covered with sod; turfy. Cotgrave.

SODER
Sod"er, n. & v. t.

Defn: See Solder.

SODGER
So"dger, n. & v. i.

Defn: Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang]

SODIC
So"dic, a. (Chem.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to sodium; containing sodium.

SODIO-
So"di*o-. (Chem.)

Defn: A combining form (also used adjectively) denoting the presence
of sodium or one of its compounds.

SODIUM
So"di*um, n. Etym: [NL., fr.E. soda.] (Chem.)

Defn: A common metallic element of the alkali group, in nature always
occuring combined, as in common salt, in albite, etc. It is isolated
as a soft, waxy, white, unstable metal, so readily oxidized that it
combines violently with water, and to be preserved must be kept under
petroleum or some similar liquid. Sodium is used combined in many
salts, in the free state as a reducer, and as a means of obtaining
other metals (as magnesium and aluminium) is an important commercial
product. Symbol Na (Natrium). Atomic weight 23. Specific gravity
0.97. Sodium amalgam, an alloy of sodium and mercury, usually
produced as a gray metallic crystalline substance, which is used as a
reducing agent, and otherwise.
 -- Sodium bicarbonate, a white crystalline substance, HNaCO3, with a
slight alkaline taste resembling that of sodium carbonate. It is
found in many mineral springs and also produced artificially,. It is
used in cookery, in baking powders, and as a source of carbonic acid
gas (carbon dioxide) for soda water. Called also cooking soda,
saleratus, and technically, acid sodium carbonate, primary sodium
carbonate, sodium dicarbonate, etc.
 -- Sodium carbonate, a white crystalline substance, Na2CO3.10H2O,
having a cooling alkaline taste, found in the ashes of many plants,
and produced artifically in large quantities from common salt. It is
used in making soap, glass, paper, etc., and as alkaline agent in
many chemical industries. Called also sal soda, washing soda, or
soda. Cf. Sodium bicarbonate, above and Trona. Sodium chloride,
common, or table, salt, NaCl.
 -- Sodium hydroxide, a white opaque brittle solid, NaOH, having a
fibrous structure, produced by the action of quicklime, or of calcium
hydrate (milk of lime), on sodium carbonate. It is a strong alkali,
and is used in the manufacture of soap, in making wood pulp for
paper, etc. Called also sodium hydrate, and caustic soda. By
extension, a solution of sodium hydroxide.

SODIUM SULPHATE
So"di*um sul"phate.

Defn: A salt well known as a catharic under the name of Glauber's
salt, which term is properly applied to the hydrate, Na2SO4.10H2O.

SODOMITE
Sod"om*ite, n.

1. An inhabitant of Sodom.

2. One guilty of sodomy.

SODOMITICAL
Sod`om*it"ic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or of the nature of, sodomy.
 -- Sod`om*it"ic*al*ly, adv.

SODOMY
Sod"om*y, n. Etym: [From Sodom. a country mentioned in the Bible: cf.
F. sodomite.]

Defn: Carnal copulation in a manner against nature; buggery. Gen.
xix. 5.

SOE
Soe, n. Etym: [Scot. sae, say, saye; cf. Icel. sar a large cask, Sw.
s a tub.]

Defn: A large wooden vessel for holding water; a cowl. [Obs. or Prov.
Eng.] Dr. H. More.

SOEVER
So*ev"er.

Defn: A word compounded of so and ever, used in composition with who,
what, where, when, how, etc., and indicating any out of all possible
or supposable persons, things, places, times, ways, etc. It is
sometimes used separate from the pronoun or adverb.
For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required.
Luke xii. 48.
What great thing soever a man proposed to do in his life, he should
think of achieving it by fifty. Sir W. Temple.

SOFA
So"fa, n.; pl. Sofas. Etym: [Ar. soffah, from saffa to dispose in
order: cf. F. sofa, It.sofa.]

Defn: A long seat, usually with a cushioned bottom, back, and ends; -
- much used as a comfortable piece of furniture.
Let fall the curtains, wheel the sofa round. Cowper.
Sofa bed, a sofa so contrived that it may be extended to form a bed;
-- called also sofa bedstead.

SOFFIT
Sof"fit, n. Etym: [It. soffitta, soffitto, fr. soffiggere to hide,
properly, to fix or fasten under, L. suffigere to fasten beneath or
below; sub under, beneath + figere to fix, faste: cf. F. soffite.]
(Arch.)

Defn: The under side of the subordinate parts and members of
buildings, such as staircases, entablatures, archways, cornices, or
the like. See Illust. of Lintel.

SOFI
So"fi, n.; pl. Sofis (.

Defn: Same as Sufi.

SOFISM
So"fism, n.

Defn: Same as Sufism.

SOFT
Soft, a. [Compar. Softer; superl. Softest.] Etym: [OE. softe, AS. s,
properly adv. of s, adj.; akin to OS. safto, adv., D. zacht, OHG.
samfto, adv., semfti, adj., G. sanft, LG. sacht; of uncertain
origin.]

1. Easily yielding to pressure; easily impressed, molded, or cut; not
firm in resisting; impressible; yielding; also, malleable; -- opposed
to Ant: hard; as, a soft bed; a soft peach; soft earth; soft wood or
metal.

2. Not rough, rugged, or harsh to the touch; smooth; delicate; fine;
as, soft silk; a soft skin.
They that wear soft clothing are in king's houses. Matt. xi. 8.

3. Hence, agreeable to feel, taste, or inhale; not irritating to the
tissues; as, a soft liniment; soft wines. "The soft, delicious air."
Milton.

4. Not harsh or offensive to the sight; not glaring; pleasing to the
eye; not exciting by intensity of color or violent contrast; as, soft
hues or tints.
The sun, shining upon the upper part of the clouds . . . made the
softest lights imaginable. Sir T. Browne.

5. Not harsh or rough in sound; gentle and pleasing to the ear;
flowing; as, soft whispers of music.
Her voice was ever soft, Gentle, and low, -- an excellent thing in
woman. Shak.
Soft were my numbers; who could take offense Pope.

6. Easily yielding; susceptible to influence; flexible; gentle; kind.
I would to God my heart were flint, like Edward's; Or Edward's soft
and pitiful, like mine. Shak.
The meek or soft shall inherit the earth. Tyndale.

7. Expressing gentleness, tenderness, or the like; mild;
conciliatory; courteous; kind; as, soft eyes.
A soft answer turneth away wrath. Prov. xv. 1.
A face with gladness overspread, Soft smiles, by human kindness bred.
Wordsworth.

8. Effeminate; not courageous or manly, weak.
A longing after sensual pleasures is a dissolution of the spirit of a
man, and makes it loose, soft, and wandering. Jer. Taylor.

9. Gentle in action or motion; easy.
On her soft axle, white she paces even, And bears thee soft with the
smooth air along. Milton.

10. Weak in character; impressible.
The deceiver soon found this soft place of Adam's. Glanvill.

11. Somewhat weak in intellect. [Colloq.]
He made soft fellows stark noddies, and such as were foolish quite
mad. Burton.

12. Quiet; undisturbed; paceful; as, soft slumbers.

13. Having, or consisting of, a gentle curve or curves; not angular
or abrupt; as, soft outlines.

14. Not tinged with mineral salts; adapted to decompose soap; as,
soft water is the best for washing.

15. (Phonetics)
(a) Applied to a palatal, a sibilant, or a dental consonant (as g in
gem, c in cent, etc.) as distinguished from a guttural mute (as g in
go, c in cone, etc.); -- opposed to hard.
(b) Belonging to the class of sonant elements as distinguished from
the surd, and considered as involving less force in utterance; as, b,
d, g, z, v, etc., in contrast with p, t, k, s, f, etc. Soft clam
(Zool.), the common or long clam (Mya arenaria). See Mya.
 -- Soft coal, bituminous coal, as distinguished from anthracite, or
hard, coal.
 -- Soft crab (Zool.), any crab which has recently shed its shell.
 -- Soft dorsal (Zool.), the posterior part of the dorsal fin of
fishes when supported by soft rays.
 -- Soft grass. (Bot.) See Velvet grass.
 -- Soft money, paper money, as distinguished from coin, or hard
money. [Colloq. U.S.] -- Soft mute. (Phonetics) See Media.
 -- Soft palate. See the Note under Palate.
 -- Soft ray (Zool.), a fin ray which is articulated and usually
branched.
 -- Soft soap. See under Soap.
 -- Soft-tack, leavened bread, as distinguished from hard-tack, or
ship bread.
 -- Soft tortoise (Zool.), any river tortoise of the genus Trionyx.
See Trionyx.

SOFT
Soft, n.

Defn: A soft or foolish person; an idiot. [Colloq.] G. Eliot.

SOFT
Soft, adv.

Defn: Softly; without roughness or harshness; gently; quietly.
Chaucer.
A knight soft riding toward them. Spenser.

SOFT
Soft, interj.

Defn: Be quiet; hold; stop; not so fast.
Soft, you; a word or two before you go. Shak.

SOFTA
Sof"ta, n. Etym: [Corruption of Per. s one who burns, is ardent or
zealous.]

Defn: Any one attached to a Mohammedan mosque, esp. a student of the
higher branches of theology in a mosque school. [Written also
sophta.]

SOFTEN
Sof"ten, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Softened; p. pr. & vb. n. Softening.]

Defn: To make soft or more soft. Specifically: --
(a) To render less hard; -- said of matter.
Their arrow's point they soften in the flame. Gay.

(b) To mollify; to make less fierce or intractable.
Diffidence conciliates the proud, and softens the severe. Rambler.

(c) To palliate; to represent as less enormous; as, to soften a
fault.
(d) To compose; to mitigate; to assuage.
Music can soften pain to ease. Pope.
(e) To make calm and placid.
All that cheers or softens life. Pope.

(f) To make less harsh, less rude, less offensive, or less violent,
or to render of an opposite quality.
He bore his great commision in his look, But tempered awe, and
softened all he spoke. Dryden.

(g) To make less glaring; to tone down; as, to soften the coloring of
a picture.
(h) To make tender; to make effeminate; to enervate; as, troops
softened by luxury.
(i) To make less harsh or grating, or of a quality the opposite; as,
to soften the voice.

SOFTEN
Sof"ten, v. i.

Defn: To become soft or softened, or less rude, harsh, severe, or
obdurate.

SOFTENER
Sof"ten*er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, softens. [Written also, less properly,
softner.]

SOFTENING
Sof"ten*ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Soften, v. Softening of the brain, or Cerebral softening
(Med.), a localized softening of the brain substance, due to
hemorrhage or inflammation. Three varieties, distinguished by their
color and representing different stages of the morbid process, are
known respectively as red, yellow, and white, softening.

SOFT-FINNED
Soft"-finned`, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Having the fin rays cartilaginous or flexible; without spines;
-- said of certain fishes.

SOFT-HEADED
Soft"-head`ed, a.

Defn: Weak in intellect.

SOFT-HEARTED
Soft"-heart`ed, a.

Defn: Having softness or tenderness of heart; susceptible of pity or
other kindly affection; gentle; meek.
 -- Soft"-heart`ed*ness, n.

SOFTISH
Soft"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat soft. De Witt Clinton.

SOFTLING
Soft"ling, n.

Defn: A soft, effeminate person; a voluptuary. [R.] Bp. Woolton. .

SOFTLY
Soft"ly, adv.

Defn: In a soft manner.

SOFTNER
Soft"ner, n.

Defn: See Softener.

SOFTNESS
Soft"ness, n. Etym: [AS. s, s.]

Defn: The quality or state of being soft; -- opposed to Ant:
hardness, and used in the various specific senses of the adjective.

SOFT-SHELL; SOFT-SHELLED
Soft"-shell`, Soft"-shelled`, a.

Defn: Having a soft or fragile shell. Soft-shell clam (Zool.), the
long clam. See Mya.
 -- Soft-shelled crab. (Zool.) See the Note under Crab, 1.
 -- Soft-shelled turtle. (Zool.) Same as Soft tortoise, under Soft.

SOFT-SPOKEN
Soft"-spo`ken, a.

Defn: Speaking softly; having a mild or gentle voice; hence, mild;
affable.

SOFT STEEL
Soft steel.

Defn: Steel low in carbon; mild steel; ingot iron.

SOGER
So"ger, n. & v. i.

Defn: Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang]  R. H. Dana, Jr.

SOGGINESS
Sog"gi*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being soggy; soddenness; wetness.

SOGGY
Sog"gy, a. [Compar. Soggier; superl. Soggiest.] Etym: [Cf. Icel.
soggr damp, wet, or E. soak.]

Defn: Filled with water; soft with moisture; sodden; soaked; wet; as,
soggy land or timber.

SOHO
So*ho", interj.

Defn: Ho; -- a word used in calling from a distant place; a
sportsman's halloo. Shak.

SOI-DISANT
Soi`-di`sant", a. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Calling himself; self-styled; pretended; would-be.

SOIL
Soil, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Soiled; p. pr. & vb. n. Soiling.] Etym:
[OF. saoler, saouler, to satiate, F. souler, L. satullare, fr.
satullus, dim. of satur sated. See Satire.]

Defn: To feed, as cattle or horses, in the barn or an inclosure, with
fresh grass or green food cut for them, instead of sending them out
to pasture; hence (such food having the effect of purging them), to
purge by feeding on green food; as, to soil a horse.

SOIL
Soil, n. Etym: [OE. soile, F. sol, fr. L. solum bottom, soil; but the
word has probably been influenced in form by soil a miry place. Cf.
Saloon, Soil a miry place, Sole of the foot.]

1. The upper stratum of the earth; the mold, or that compound
substance which furnishes nutriment to plants, or which is
particularly adapted to support and nourish them.

2. Land; country.
Must I thus leave thee, Paradise thus leave Thee, native soil Milton.

3. Dung; f?ces; compost; manure; as, night soil.
Improve land by dung and other sort of soils. Mortimer.
Soil pipe, a pipe or drain for carrying off night soil.

SOIL
Soil, v. t.

Defn: To enrich with soil or muck; to manure.
Men . . . soil their ground, not that they love the dirt, but that
they expect a crop. South.

SOIL
Soil, n. Etym: [OF. soil, souil, F. souille, from OF. soillier, F.
souiller. See Soil to make dirty.]

Defn: A marshy or miry place to which a hunted boar resorts for
refuge; hence, a wet place, stream, or tract of water, sought for by
other game, as deer.
As deer, being stuck, fly through many soils, Yet still the shaft
sticks fast. Marston.
To take soil, to run into the mire or water; hence, to take refuge or
shelter.
O, sir, have you taken soil here It is well a man may reach you after
three hours' running. B. Jonson.

SOIL
Soil, v. t.Etym: [OE. soilen, OF. soillier, F. souiller, (assumed)
LL. suculare, fr. L. sucula a little pig, dim. of sus a swine. See
Sow, n.]

1. To make dirty or unclean on the surface; to foul; to dirty; to
defile; as, to soil a garment with dust.
Our wonted ornaments now soiled and stained. Milton.

2. To stain or mar, as with infamy or disgrace; to tarnish; to sully.
Shak.

Syn.
 -- To foul; dirt; dirty; begrime; bemire; bespatter; besmear; daub;
bedaub; stain; tarnish; sully; defile; pollute.

SOIL
Soil, v. i.

Defn: To become soiled; as, light colors soil sooner than dark ones.

SOIL
Soil, n. Etym: [See Soil to make dirty, Soil a miry place.]

Defn: That which soils or pollutes; a soiled place; spot; stain.
A lady's honor . . . will not bear a soil. Dryden.

SOILINESS
Soil"i*ness, n.

Defn: Stain; foulness. [R.] Bacon.

SOILLESS
Soil"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of soil or mold.

SOIL PIPE
Soil pipe.

Defn: A pipe or drain for carrying off night soil.

SOILURE
Soil"ure, n. Etym: [OF. soillure, F. souillure. See Soil to make
dirty.]

Defn: Stain; pollution. Shak.
Then fearing rust or soilure, fashioned for it A case of silk.
Tennyson.

SOILY
Soil"y, a.

Defn: Dirty; soiled. [Obs.] Fuller.

SOIREE
Soi`ree", n. Etym: [F., fr. soir evening, fr. L. serus late, serum
late time. Cf. Serenade.]

Defn: An evening party; -- distinguished from levee, and matinee.

SOJA
So"ja (so"ja or so"ya), n. (Bot.)

Defn: An Asiatic leguminous herb (Glycine Soja) the seeds of which
are used in preparing the sauce called soy.

SOJER
So"jer, n. & v. i.

Defn: Var. of Soldier. [Dial. or Slang]

SOJOURN
So"journ, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sojourned; p. pr. & vb. n. Sojourning.]
Etym: [OE. sojornen, sojournen, OF. sojorner, sejorner, F. sejourner,
fr. L. sub under, about + diurnus belonging to the day. See Journal,
Diurnal.]

Defn: To dwell for a time; to dwell or live in a place as a temporary
resident or as a stranger, not considering the place as a permanent
habitation; to delay; to tarry.
Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there. Gen. xii. 30.
Home he goeth, he might not longer sojourn. Chaucer.
The soldiers first assembled at Newcastle, and there sojourned three
days. Hayward.

SOJOURN
So"journ, n. Etym: [Cf. OF. sujurn, sujur, sejor, F. sejour. See
Sojourn, v. i.]

Defn: A temporary residence, as that of a traveler in a foreign land.
Though long detained In that obscure sojourn. Milton.

SOJOURNER
So"journ*er, n.

Defn: One who sojourns.
We are strangers before thee, and sojourners. 1. Chron. xxix. 15.

SOJOURNING
So"journ*ing, n.

Defn: The act or state of one who sojourns.

SOJOURNMENT
So"journ*ment, n.

Defn: Temporary residence, as that of a stranger or a traveler. [R.]

SOKE
Soke, n.

1. (Eng. Law)

Defn: See Soc.

2. One of the small territorial divisions into which Lincolnshire,
England, is divided.

SOKEMAN
Soke"man, n.

Defn: See Socman.

SOKEMANRY
Soke"man*ry, n.

Defn: See Socmanry.

SOKEN
Sok"en, n. Etym: [Cf. Socome.]

1. A toll. See Soc, n., 2. [Obs.]
Great sooken had this miller, out of doubt. Chaucer.

2. A district held by socage.

SOKO
So"ko, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An African anthropoid ape, supposed to be a variety of the
chimpanzee.

SOL
Sol, n. Etym: [L.]

1. The sun.

2. (Alchem.)

Defn: Gold; -- so called from its brilliancy, color, and value.
Chaucer.

SOL
Sol, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)
(a) A syllable applied in solmization to the note G, or to the fifth
tone of any diatonic scale.
(b) The tone itself.

SOL
Sol, n. Etym: [See Sou.]

1. A sou.

2. A silver and gold coin of Peru. The silver sol is the unit of
value, and is worth about 68 cents.

SOLA
So"la, a. Etym: [L., fem. of solus.]

Defn: See Solus.

SOLA
So"la, n. Etym: [Native name.] (Bot.)

Defn: A leguminous plant (?schynomene aspera) growing in moist places
in Southern India and the East Indies. Its pithlike stem is used for
making hats, swimming-jackets, etc. [Written also solah, shola.]

SOLACE
Sol"ace, n. Etym: [OF. solas, ssoulaz, L. solacium, solatium, fr.
solari to comfort, console. Cf. Console, v. t.]

1. Comfort in grief; alleviation of grief or anxiety; also, that
which relieves in distress; that which cheers or consoles; relief.
In business of mirth and of solace. Chaucer.
The proper solaces of age are not music and compliments, but wisdom
and devotion. Rambler.

2. Rest; relaxation; ease. [Obs.]
To make his steed some solace. Chaucer.

Syn.
 -- Comfort; consolation; alleviation; relief.

SOLACE
Sol"ace, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Solaced; p. pr. & vb. n. Solacing.]
Etym: [OF. solacier, soulacier, F. solacier, LL. solatiare. See
Solace, n.]

1. To cheer in grief or under calamity; to comfort; to relieve in
affliction, solitude, or discomfort; to console; -- applied to
persons; as, to solace one with the hope of future reward.

2. To allay; to assuage; to soothe; as, to solace grief.

Syn.
 -- To comfort; assuage; allay. See Comfort.

SOLACE
Sol"ace, v. i.

Defn: To take comfort; to be cheered. Shak.

SOLACEMENT
Sol"ace*ment, n.

Defn: The act of solacing, or the state of being solaced; also, that
which solaces. [R.]

SOLACIOUS
So*la"cious, a. Etym: [Cf. OF. solacieux.]

Defn: Affording solace; as, a solacious voice. [Obs.] Bale.

SOLANACEOUS
Sol`a*na"ceous, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to plants of the natural order Solanace?, of
which the nightshade (Solanum) is the type. The order includes also
the tobacco, ground cherry, tomato, eggplant, red pepper, and many
more.

SOLAND
So"land, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A solan goose.

SOLANDER
So*lan"der, n.

Defn: See Sallenders.

SOLAN GOOSE
So"lan goose`. Etym: [Icel. s; akin to Norw. sula.] (Zool.)

Defn: The common gannet.

SOLANIA
So*la"ni*a, n. Etym: [NL.] (Chem.)

Defn: Solanine.

SOLANICINE
So*lan"i*cine, n. Etym: [See Solanine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid produced by the action of hydrochloric acid on
solanidine, as a tasteless yellow crystalline substance.

SOLANIDINE
So*lan"i*dine, n. Etym: [See Solanine.] (Chem.)

Defn: An alkaloid produced by the decomposition of solanine, as a
white crystalline substance having a harsh bitter taste.

SOLANINE
Sol"a*nine, n. Etym: [L. solanum nightshade.] (Chem.)

Defn: A poisonous alkaloid glucoside extracted from the berries of
common nightshade (Solanum nigrum), and of bittersweet, and from
potato sprouts, as a white crystalline substance having an acrid,
burning taste; -- called also solonia, and solanina.

SOLANO
So*la"no, Etym: [Sp., fr. L. solanussc. ventus), from sol the sun.]

Defn: A hot, oppressive wind which sometimes blows in the
Mediterranean, particularly on the eastern coast of Spain.

SOLANOID
Sol"a*noid, a. Etym: [Solanum + -oid.] (Med.)

Defn: Resembling a potato; -- said of a kind of cancer.

SOLANUM
So*la"num, n. Etym: [L., nightshade.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of plants comprehending the potato (S. tuberosum), the
eggplant (S. melongena, and several hundred other species;
nightshade.

SOLAR
So"lar, n. Etym: [OE. soler, AS. solere, L. solarium, from sol the
sun. See Solar, a.]

Defn: A loft or upper chamber; a garret room. [Obs.] [Written also
soler, solere, sollar.] Oxf. Gloss.

SOLAR
So"lar, a. Etym: [L. solaris, fr. sol the sun; akin to As. s, Icel.
s, Goth. sauil, Lith. saule, W. haul,. sul, Skr. svar, perhaps to E.
sun:F. solaire. Cf. Parasol. Sun.]

1. Of or pertaining to the sun; proceeding from the sun; as, the
solar system; solar light; solar rays; solar influence. See Solar
system, below.

2. (Astrol.)

Defn: Born under the predominant influence of the sun. [Obs.]
And proud beside, as solar people are. Dryden.

3. Measured by the progress or revolution of the sun in the ecliptic;
as, the solar year.

4. Produced by the action of the sun, or peculiarly affected by its
influence.
They denominate some herbs solar, and some lunar. Bacon.
Solar cycle. See under Cycle.
 -- Solar day. See Day, 2.
 -- Solar engine, an engine in which the energy of solar heat is used
to produce motion, as in evaporating water for a steam engine, or
expanding air for an air engine.
 -- Solar flowers (Bot.), flowers which open and shut daily at
certain hours.
 -- Solar lamp, an argand lamp.
 -- Solar microscope, a microscope consisting essentially, first, of
a mirror for reflecting a beam of sunlight through the tube, which
sometimes is fixed in a window shutter; secondly, of a condenser, or
large lens, for converging the beam upon the object; and, thirdly, of
a small lens, or magnifier, for throwing an enlarged image of the
object at its focus upon a screen in a dark room or in a darkened
box.
 -- Solar month. See under Month.
 -- Solar oil, a paraffin oil used an illuminant and lubricant.
 -- Solar phosphori (Physics), certain substances, as the diamond,
siulphide of barium (Bolognese or Bologna phosphorus), calcium
sulphide, etc., which become phosphorescent, and shine in the dark,
after exposure to sunlight or other intense light.
 -- Solar plexus (Anat.), a nervous plexus situated in the dorsal and
anterior part of the abdomen, consisting of several sympathetic
ganglia with connecting and radiating nerve fibers; -- so called in
allusion to the radiating nerve fibers.
 -- Solar spots. See Sun spots, under Sun.
 -- Solar system (Astron.), the sun, with the group of celestial
bodies which, held by its attraction, revolve round it. The system
comprises the major planets, with their satellites; the minor
planets, or asteroids, and the comets; also, the meteorids, the
matter that furnishes the zodiacal light, and the rings of Saturn.
The satellites that revolve about the major planets are twenty-two in
number, of which the Earth has one (see Moon.), Mars two, Jupiter
five, Saturn nine, Uranus four, and Neptune one. The asteroids,
between Mars and Jupiter, thus far discovered (1900), number about
five hundred, the first four of which were found near the beginning
of the century, and are called Ceres, Pallas, Juno, and Vesta.

Note: The principal elements of the major planets, and of the comets
seen at more than one perihelion passage, are exhibited in the
following tables: --
I.
 -- Major Planets. Symbol.Name.Mean distance -- that of the Earth
being unity.Period in days.Eccentricity.Inclination of orbit.Diameter
in miles
II.
 -- Periodic Comets. Name.Greatest distance from sun.Least distance
from sun.Inclination of orbit.Perihelion passage. ? min 54
Encke's3.314.100.34212 541885.2 -- Solar telegraph, telegraph for
signaling by flashes of reflected sunlight.
 -- Solar time. See Apparent time, under Time.

SOLARIUM
So*la"ri*um, n.; pl. Solaria. Etym: [L. See Solar, n.]

1. An apartment freely exposed to the sun; anciently, an apartment or
inclosure on the roof of a house; in modern times, an apartment in a
hospital, used as a resort for convalescents.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several species of handsome marine spiral shells of
the genus Solarium and allied genera. The shell is conical, and
usually has a large, deep umbilicus exposing the upper whorls. Called
also perspective shell.

SOLARIZATION
So`lar*i*za"tion, n. (Photog.)

Defn: Injury of a photographic picture caused by exposing it for too
long a time to the sun's light in the camera; burning; excessive
insolation.

SOLARIZE
So"lar*ize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Solarized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Solarizing.] (Photog.)

Defn: To injure by too long exposure to the light of the sun in the
camera; to burn.

SOLARIZE
So"lar*ize, v. i. (Photog.)

Defn: To become injured by undue or too long exposure to the sun's
rays in the camera.

SOLAR MYTH
So"lar myth.

Defn: A myth which essentially consists of allegory based upon ideas
as to the sun's course, motion, influence, or the like.

SOLAR PARALLAX
Solar parallax.

Defn: The parallax of the sun, that is, the angle subtended at the
sun by the semidiameter of the earth. It is 8."80, and is the
fundamental datum.

SOLARY
So"la*ry, a.

Defn: Solar. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

SOLAS
Sol"as, n.

Defn: Solace. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOLATIUM
So*la"ti*um, n. Etym: [L. See Solace, n.]

Defn: Anything which alleviates or compensates for suffering or loss;
a compensation; esp., an additional allowance, as for injured
feelings.

SOLD
Sold,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Sell.

SOLD
Sold, n. Etym: [F. solde. See Soldier, and cf. Sou.]

Defn: Solary; military pay. [Obs.] Spenser.

SOLDAN
Sol"dan, n.Etym: [OE. soudan, F. soudan, from the Arabic. See
Sultan.]

Defn: A sultan. [Obs.] Milton.

SOLDANEL
Sol"da*nel, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A plant of the genus Soldanella, low Alpine herbs of the
Primrose family.

SOLDANRIE
Sol"dan*rie, n.

Defn: The country ruled by a soldan, or sultan. [Poet.] Sir W. Scott.

SOLDER
Sol"der, n. Etym: [Formerly soder; F. soudure, OF. soudeure, fr. OF.
& F. souder to solder, L. solidare to fasten, to make solid. See
Solid, and cf. Sawder.]

Defn: A metal or metallic alloy used when melted for uniting adjacent
metallic edges or surfaces; a metallic coment. Hence, anything which
unites or cements. Hard solder, a solder which fuses only at a red
heat, as one composed of zinc and copper, or silver and copper, etc.
 -- Soft solder, a solder fusible at comparatively low temperatures;
as, plumbers' solder, consisting of two parts lead and one part tin,
is a soft solder.

SOLDER
Sol"der, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Soldered; p. pr. & vb. n. Soldering.]
Etym: [Formerlysoder. See Solder, n.]

1. To unite (metallic surfaces or edges) by the intervention of a
more fusible metal or metallic alloy applied when melted; to join by
means of metallic cement.

2. To mend; to patch up. "To solder up a broken cause." Hooker.

SOLDERER
Sol"der*er, n.

Defn: One who solders.

SOLDERING
Sol"der*ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Solder, v. t. Soldering iron, Soldering tool, an
instrument for soldering, consisting of a bit or bolt of copper
having a pointed or wedge-shaped end, and furnished with a handle.

SOLDIER
Sol"dier, n. Etym: [OE. souldier, soudiour, souder, OF. soldier,
soldoier, soldeier, sodoier, soudoier, soudier, fr. L. solidus a
piece of money (hence applied to the pay of a soldier), fr. solidus
solid. See Solid, and cf. Sold, n.]

1. One who is engaged in military service as an officer or a private;
one who serves in an army; one of an organized body of combatants.
I am a soldier and unapt to weep. Shak.

2. Especially, a private in military service, as distinguished from
an officer.
It were meet that any one, before he came to be a captain, should
have been a soldier. Spenser.

3. A brave warrior; a man of military experience and skill, or a man
of distinguished valor; -- used by way of emphasis or distinction.
Shak.

4. (Zool.)

Defn: The red or cuckoo gurnard (Trigla pini.) [Prov. Eng.]

5. (Zool.)

Defn: One of the asexual polymorphic forms of white ants, or
termites, in which the head and jaws are very large and strong. The
soldiers serve to defend the nest. See Termite. Soldier beetle
(Zool.), an American carabid beetle (Chauliognathus Americanus) whose
larva feeds upon other insects, such as the plum curculio.
 -- Soldier bug (Zool.), any hemipterous insect of the genus Podisus
and allied genera, as the spined soldier bug (Podius spinosus). These
bugs suck the blood of other insects.
 -- Soldier crab (Zool.) (a) The hermit crab. (b) The fiddler crab.
 -- Soldier fish (Zool.), a bright-colored etheostomoid fish
(Etheostoma coeruleum) found in the Mississippi River; -- called also
blue darter, and rainbow darter.
 -- Soldier fly (Zool.), any one of numerous species of small
dipterous flies of the genus Stratyomys and allied genera. They are
often bright green, with a metallic luster, and are ornamented on the
sides of the back with markings of yellow, like epaulets or shoulder
straps.
 -- Soldier moth (Zool.), a large geometrid moth (Euschema
militaris), having the wings bright yellow with bluish black lines
and spots.
 -- Soldier orchis (Bot.), a kind of orchis (Orchis militaris).

SOLDIER
Sol"dier, v. i.

1. To serve as a soldier.

2. To make a pretense of doing something, or of performing any task.
[Colloq.U.S.]

Note: In this sense the vulgar pronounciation (so"jer) is jocosely
preserved.
It needs an opera glass to discover whether the leaders are pulling,
or only soldiering. C. D. Warner.

SOLDIERESS
Sol"dier*ess, n.

Defn: A female soldier. [Obs.]

SOLDIERING
Sol"dier*ing, n.

1. The act of serving as a soldier; the state of being a soldier; the
occupation of a soldier.

2. The act of feigning to work. See the Note under Soldier, v. i., 2.
[Colloq. U.S.]

SOLDIERLIKE
Sol"dier*like", a.

Defn: Like a soldier; soldierly.

SOLDIERLY
Sol"dier*ly, a.

Defn: Like or becoming a real soldier; brave; martial; heroic;
honorable; soldierlike. "Soldierly discipline." Sir P. Sidney.

SOLDIERSHIP
Sol"dier*ship, n.

Defn: Military qualities or state; martial skill; behavior becoming a
soldier. [R.] Shak.

SOLDIERWOOD
Sol"dier*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A showy leguminous plant (Calliandra purpurea) of the West
Indies. The flowers have long tassels of purple stamens.

SOLDIERY
Sol"dier*y, n.

1. A body of soldiers; soldiers, collectivelly; the military.
A camp of faithful soldiery. Milton.

2. Military service. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

SOLDO
Sol"do, n.; pl. Soldi. Etym: [It. See Sou.]

Defn: A small Italian coin worth a sou or a cent; the twentieth part
of a lira.

SOLE
Sole, n. Etym: [F. sole, L. solea; -- so named from its flat shape.
See Sole of the foot.] (Zool.)
(a) Any one of several species of flatfishes of the genus Solea and
allied genera of the family Soleid?, especially the common European
species (Solea vulgaris), which is a valuable food fish.
(b) Any one of several American flounders somewhat resembling the
true sole in form or quality, as the California sole (Lepidopsetta
bilineata), the long-finned sole (Glyptocephalus zachirus), and other
species. Lemon, or French, sole (Zool.), a European species of sole
(Solea pegusa).
 -- Smooth sole (Zool.), the megrim.

SOLE
Sole, n. Etym: [AS. sole, fr. L. soolea (or rather an assumed L.
sola), akin to solumround, soil, sole of the foot. Cf. Exile, Saloon,
Soil earth, Sole the fish.]

1. The bottom of the foot; hence, also, rarely, the foot itself.
The dove found no rest for the sole of her foot. Gen. viii. 9.
Hast wandered through the world now long a day, Yet ceasest not thy
weary soles to lead. Spenser.

2. The bottom of a shoe or boot, or the piece of leather which
constitutes the bottom.
The "caliga" was a military shoe, with a very thick sole, tied above
the instep. Arbuthnot.

3. The bottom or lower part of anything, or that on which anything
rests in standing. Specifially: (a) (Agric.)

Defn: The bottom of the body of a plow; -- called also slade; also,
the bottom of a furrow.
(b) (Far.) The horny substance under a horse's foot, which protects
the more tender parts.
(c) (Fort.) The bottom of an embrasure.
(d) (Naut.) A piece of timber attached to the lower part of the
rudder, to make it even with the false keel. Totten.
(e) (Mining) The seat or bottom of a mine; -- applied to horizontal
veins or lodes. Sole leather, thick, strong, used for making the
soles of boots and shoes, and for other purposes.

SOLE
Sole, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Soled; p. pr. & vb. n. Soling.]

Defn: To furnish with a sole; as, to sole a shoe.

SOLE
Sole, a. Etym: [L. solus, or OF. sol, F. seul (fr. L. solus; cf. L.
sollus whole, entire. Cf. Desolate, Solemn, Solo, Sullen.]

1. Being or acting without another; single; individual; only. "The
sole son of my queen." Shak.
He, be sure . . . first and last will reign Sole king. Milton.

2. (Law)

Defn: Single; unmarried; as, a feme sole. Corporation sole. See the
Note under Corporation.

Syn.
 -- Single; individual; only; alone; solitary.

SOLECISM
Sol"e*cism, n.Etym: [F. solecisme, L. soloecismus, Gr. soloikismo`s,
fr. soloiki`zein to speak or write incorrectly, fr. so`loikos
speaking incorrectly, from the corruption of the Attic dialect among
the Athenian colonists of So`loi in Cilicia.]

1. An impropriety or incongruity of language in the combination of
words or parts of a sentence; esp., deviation from the idiom of a
language or from the rules of syntax.
A barbarism may be in one word; a solecism must be of more. Johnson.

2. Any inconsistency, unfitness, absurdity, or impropriety, as in
deeds or manners.
C?sar, by dismissing his guards and retaining his power, committed a
dangerous solecism in politics. C. Middleton.
The idea of having committed the slightest solecism in politeness was
agony to him. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Barbarism; impropriety; absurdity.

SOLECIST
Sol"e*cist, n. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: One who commits a solecism. Blackwall.

SOLECISTIC
Sol`e*cis"tic, a.

Defn: Solecistical.

SOLECISTICAL
Sol`e*cis"tic*al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or involving, a solecism; incorrect. "He thought
it made the language solecistical and absurd." Blackwall.

SOLECISTICALLY
Sol`e*cis"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: In a solecistic manner.

SOLECIZE
Sol"e*cize, v. i. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: To commit a solecism. [R.] Dr. H. More.

SOLELY
Sole"ly, adv.

Defn: Singly; alone; only; without another; as, to rest a cause
solely one argument; to rely solelyn one's own strength.

SOLEMN
Sol"emn, a. Etym: [OE. solempne, OF. solempne, L. solemnis, solennis,
sollemnis, sollennis; sollus all, entire + annus a year; properly,
that takes place every year; -- used especially of religious
solemnities. Cf. Silly, Annual.]

1. Marked with religious rites and pomps; enjoined by, or connected
with, religion; sacred.
His holy rites and solemn feasts profaned. Milton.
The worship of this image was advanced, and a solemn supplication
observed everry year. Bp. Stillingfleet.

2. Pertaining to a festival; festive; festal. [Obs.] "On this solemn
day." Chaucer.

3. Stately; ceremonious; grand. [Archaic]
His feast so solemn and so rich. Chaucer.
To-night we hold a splemn supper. Shak.

4. Fitted to awaken or express serious reflections; marked by
seriousness; serious; grave; devout; as, a solemn promise; solemn
earnestness.
Nor wanting power to mitigate and swage With solemn touches troubled
thoughts. Milton.
There reigned a solemn silence over all. Spenser.

5. Real; earnest; downright. [Obs. & R.]
Frederick, the emperor, . . . has spared no expense in strengthening
this city; since which time we find no solemn taking it by the Turks.
Fuller.

6. Affectedly grave or serious; as, to put on a solemn face. "A
solemn coxcomb." Swift.

7. (Law)

Defn: Made in form; ceremonious; as, solemn war; conforming with all
legal requirements; as, probate in solemn form. Burrill. Jarman.
Greenleaf. Solemn League and Covenant. See Covenant, 2.

Syn.
 -- Grave; formal; ritual; ceremonial; sober; serious; reverential;
devotional; devout. See Grave.

SOLEMNESS
Sol"em*ness, n.

Defn: Solemnness.
Some think he wanted solemnes. Sir H. Wotton.

SOLEMNITY
So*lem"ni*ty, n.; pl. Solemnities. Etym: [L. solemnitas, solennitas:
cf. F. solennite, solemnite, OF. also sollempnite.]

1. A rite or ceremony performed with religious reverence; religious
or ritual ceremony; as, the solemnity of a funeral, a sacrament.
Great was the cause; our old solemnities From no blind zeal or fond
tradition rise, But saved from death, our Argives yearly pay These
grateful honors to the god of day. Pope.

2. ceremony adapted to impress with awe.
The forms and solemnities of the last judgment. Atterburry.

3. Ceremoniousness; impressiveness; seriousness; grave earnestness;
formal dignity; gravity.
With much glory and great solemnity. Chaucer.
The statelines and gravity of the Spaniards shows itself in the
solemnity of their language. Addison.
These promises were often made with great solemnity and confirmed
with an oath. J. Edwards.

4. Hence, affected gravity or seriousness.
Solemnity 's a cover for a sot. Young.

5. Solemn state or feeling; awe or reverence; also, that which
produces such a feeling; as, the solemnity of an audience; the
solemnity of Westminster Abbey.

6. (Law)

Defn: A solemn or formal observance; proceeding according to due
form; the formality which is necessary to render a thing done valid.

SOLEMNIZATE
So*lem"ni*zate, v. t.

Defn: To solemnize; as, to solemnizate matrimony. [R.] Bp. Burnet.

SOLEMNIZATION
Sol`em*ni*za"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. solemnisation, solennisation.]

Defn: The act of solemnizing; celebration; as, the solemnization of a
marriage.

SOLEMNIZE
Sol"em*nize, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Solemnized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Solemnizing.] Etym: [Cf. F. solemniser, sollemniser.]

1. To perform with solemn or ritual ceremonies, or according to legal
forms.
Baptism to be administered in one place, and marriage solemnized in
another. Hooker.

2. To dignify or honor by ceremonies; to celebrate.
Their choice nobility and flowers . . . Met from all parts to
solemnize this feast. Milton.

3. To make grave, serious, and reverential.
Wordsworth was solemnizzed and elevated by this his first look on
Yarrow. J. C. Shairp.
Every Israelite . . . arose, solemnized his face, looked towards
Jerusalem . . . and prayed. L. Wallace.

SOLEMNIZE
Sol"em*nize, n.

Defn: Solemnization. [R.]
Though spoused, yet wanting wedlock's solemnize. Spenser.

SOLEMNIZER
Sol"em*ni`zer, n.

Defn: One who solemnizes.

SOLEMNLY
Sol"emn*ly, adv.

Defn: In a solemn manner; with gravity; seriously; formally.
There in deaf murmurs solemnly are wise. Dryden.
I do solemnly assure the reader. Swift.

SOLEMNNESS
Sol"emn*ness, n.

Defn: The state or quality of being solemn; solemnity;
impressiveness; gravity; as, the solemnness of public worship.
[Written also solemness.]

SOLEMPNE
So*lemp"ne, a. Etym: [See Solemn.]

Defn: Solemn; grand; stately; splendid; magnificent. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOLEN
So"len, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr.

1. (Med.)

Defn: A cradle, as for a broken limb. See Cradle, 6.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any marine bivalve mollusk belonging to Solen or allied genera
of the family Solenid?; a razor shell.

SOLENACEAN
Sol`e*na"cean, n. (Zool).

Defn: Any species of marine bivalve shells belonging to the family
Solenid?.

SOLENACEOUS
Sol`e*na"ceous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the solens or family Solenid?.

SOLENESS
Sole"ness, n.

Defn: The state of being sole, or alone; singleness. [R.]
Chesterfield.

SOLENETTE
Sole*nette", n. (Zool.)

Defn: A small European sole (Solea minuta).

SOLENOCONCHA
So*le`no*con"cha, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Solen, and Conch.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Scaphopoda.

SOLENODON
So*le"no*don, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: Either one of two species of singular West Indian insectivores,
allied to the tenrec. One species (Solendon paradoxus), native of St.
Domingo, is called also agouta; the other (S. Cubanus), found in
Cuba, is called almique.

SOLENOGASTRA
So*le`no*gas"tra, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: An order of lowly organized Mollusca belonging to the
Isopleura. A narrow groove takes the place of the foot of other
gastropods.

SOLENOGLYPH
So*le"no*glyph, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Pertaining to the Selenoglypha. See Ophidia.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Selenoglypha.

SOLENOGLYPHA
So`le*nog"ly*pha, n. pl. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A suborder of serpents including those which have tubular
erectile fangs, as the viper and rattlesnake. See Fang.

SOLENOID
So"len*oid, n.Etym: [Gr. -oid.] (Elec.)

Defn: An electrodynamic spiral having the conjuctive wire turned back
along its axis, so as to neutralize that component of the effect of
the current which is due to the length of the spiral, and reduce the
whole effect to that of a series of equal and parallel circular
currents. When traversed by a current the solenoid exhibits polarity
and attraction or repulsion, like a magnet.

SOLENOSTOMI
So`le*nos"to*mi, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A tribe of lophobranch fishes having a tubular snout. The
female carries the eggs in a ventral pouch.

SOLEPLATE
Sole"plate`, n. (Mach.)
(a) A bedplate; as, the soleplate of a steam engine.
(b) The plate forming the back of a waterwheel bucket.

SOLER; SOLERE
So"ler, So"lere, n. Etym: [OE. See Solar, n.]

Defn: A loft or garret. See Solar, n. Sir W. Scott.

SOLERT
So"lert, a. Etym: [L. solers, sollers, -ertis,clever, skillful.]

Defn: Skillful; clever; crafty. [Obs.] Cudworth.

SOLERTIOUSNESS
So*ler"tious*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being solert. [Obs.] Bp. Hacket.

SOLESHIP
Sole"ship, n.

Defn: The state of being sole, or alone; soleness. [R.] Sir E.
Dering.

SOLE TRADER
Sole trader.

Defn: A feme sole trader.

SOL-FA
Sol`-fa", v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sol-faed;p. pr. & vb. n. Sol-faing.]
Etym: [It. solfa the gamut, from the syllables fa, sol.]

Defn: To sing the notes of the gamut, ascending or descending; as, do
or ut, re, mi, fa, sol, la, si, do, or the same in reverse order.
Yet can I neither solfe ne sing. Piers Plowman.

SOL-FA
Sol"-fa", n.

Defn: The gamut, or musical scale. See Tonic sol-fa, under Tonic, n.

SOLFANARIA
Sol`fa*na"ri*a, n. Etym: [It., from solfo sulphur.]

Defn: A sulphur mine.

SOLFATARA
Sol`fa*ta"ra, n.Etym: [It., from solfo brimstone, sulphur, L. sulfur,
E. sulphur.] (Geol.)

Defn: A volcanic area or vent which yields only sulphur vapors,
steam, and the like. It represents the stages of the volcanic
activity.

SOLFEGGIARE
Sol`feg*gia"re, v. i.Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: To sol-fa. See Sol-fa, v. i.

SOLFEGGIO
Sol*feg"gio, n.Etym: [It., fr. solfa the gamut.] (Mus.)

Defn: The system of arranging the scale by the names do, re, mi, fa,
sol, la, si, by which singing is taught; a singing exercise upon
these syllables.

SOLFERINO
Sol`fe*ri"no, n.

Defn: A brilliant deep pink color with a purplish tinge, one of the
dyes derived from aniline; -- so called from Solferino in Italy,
where a battle was fought about the time of its discovery.

SOLI
So"li, n.,

Defn: pl. of Solo.

SOLICIT
So*lic"it, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Solicited; p. pr. & vb. n.
Soliciting.] Etym: [F. sollicier, L. sollicitare, solicitare, -atum,
fr. sollicitus wholly (i. e., violently) moved; sollus whole + citus,
p. p. of ciere to move, excite. See Solemn, Cite.]

1. To ask from with earnestness; to make petition to; to apply to for
obtaining something; as, to solicit person for alms.
Did I solicit thee From darkness to promote me Milton.

2. To endeavor to obtain; to seek; to plead for; as, to solicit an
office; to solicit a favor.
I view my crime, but kindle at the view, Repent old pleasures, and
solicit new. Pope.

3. To awake or excite to action; to rouse desire in; to summon; to
appeal to; to invite.
That fruit . . . solicited her longing eye. Milton.
Sounds and some tangible qualities solicit their proper senses, and
force an entrance to the mind. Locke.

4. To urge the claims of; to plead; to act as solicitor for or with
reference to. [Obs.]
Should My brother henceforth study to forget The vow that he hath
made thee, I would ever Solicit thy deserts. Ford.

5. To disturb; to disquiet; -- a Latinism rarely used.
Hath any ill solicited thine ears Chapman.
But anxious fears solicit my weak breast. Dryden.

Syn. To beseech; ask; request; crave; supplicate; entreat; beg;
implore; importune. See Beseech.

SOLICITANT
So*lic"it*ant, n.Etym: [L. solicitans, p. pr. ]

Defn: One who solicits.

SOLICITATE
So*lic"it*ate, a.

Defn: Solicitous. [Obs.] Eden.

SOLICITATION
So*lic`i*ta"tion, n. Etym: [F. solicitation, or L. sollicitatio.]

1. The act of soliciting; earnest request; persistent asking;
importunity.

2. Excitement; invitation; as, the solicitation of the senses. Locke.

SOLICITOR
So*lic"it*or, n. Etym: [F. soliciteur, L. solicitator.]

1. One who solicits.

2. (Law)
(a) An attorney or advocate; one who represents another in court; --
formerly, in English practice, the professional designation of a
person admitted to practice in a court of chancery or equity. See the
Note under Attorney.
(b) The law officer of a city, town, department, or government; as,
the city solicitor; the solicitor of the treasury.

SOLICITOR-GENERAL
So*lic"it*or-gen"er*al, n.

Defn: The second law officer in the government of Great Britain;
also, a similar officer under the United States government, who is
associated with the attorney-general; also, the chief law officer of
some of the States.

SOLICITOUS
So*lic"it*ous, a.Etym: [L. sollicitus, solicitus. See Solicit, v. t.]

Defn: Disposed to solicit; eager to obtain something desirable, or to
avoid anything evil; concerned; anxious; careful. "Solicitous of my
reputation." Dryden. "He was solicitous for his advice." Calerendon.
Enjoy the present, whatsoever it be, and be not solicitous about the
future. Jer. Taylor.
The colonel had been intent upon other things, and not enough
solicitous to finish the fortifications. Clarendon.
-- So*lic"it*ous*ly, adv.
 -- So*lic"it*ous*ness, n.

SOLICITRESS
So*lic"it*ress, n.

Defn: A woman who solicits.

SOLICITUDE
So*lic"i*tude, n. Etym: [F. sollicitude,r L. sollicitudo.]

Defn: The state of being solicitous; uneasiness of mind occasioned by
fear of evil or desire good; anxiety.
The many cares and great labors of worldly men, their solicitude and
outward shows. Sir W. Raleigh.
The mother looked at her with fond solicitude. G. W. Cable.

Syn.
 -- Carefulness; concern; anxiety. See Care.

SOLID
Sol"id, a. Etym: [L. solidus, probably akin to sollus whole, entire,
Gr. solide. Cf. Consolidate,Soda, Solder, Soldier, Solemn.]

1. Having the constituent parts so compact, or so firmly adhering, as
to resist the impression or penetration of other bodies; having a
fixed form; hard; firm; compact; -- opposed to fluid and liquid or to
plastic, like clay, or to incompact, like sand.

2. Not hollow; full of matter; as, a solid globe or cone, as
distinguished from a Ant: hollow one; not spongy; dense; hence,
sometimes, heavy.

3. (Arith.)

Defn: Having all the geometrical dimensions; cubic; as, a solid foot
contains 1,728 solid inches.

Note: In this sense, cubics now generally used.

4. Firm; compact; strong; stable; unyielding; as, a solid pier; a
solid pile; a solid wall.

5. Applied to a compound word whose parts are closely united and form
an unbroken word; -- opposed to hyphened.

6. Fig.: Worthy of credit, trust, or esteem; substantial, as opposed
to frivolous or fallacious; weighty; firm; strong; valid; just;
genuine.
The solid purpose of a sincere and virtuous answer. Milton.
These, wanting wit, affect gravity, and go by the name of solid men.
Dryden.
The genius of the Italians wrought by solid toil what the myth-making
imagination of the Germans had projected in a poem. J. A. Symonds.

7. Sound; not weakly; as, a solid constitution of body. I. Watts.

8. (Bot.)

Defn: Of a fleshy, uniform, undivided substance, as a bulb or root;
not spongy or hollow within, as a stem.

9. (Metaph.)

Defn: Impenetrable; resisting or excluding any other material
particle or atom from any given portion of space; -- applied to the
supposed ultimate particles of matter.

10. (Print.)

Defn: Not having the lines separated by leads; not open.

11. United; without division; unanimous; as, the delegation is solid
for a candidate. [Polit. Cant. U.S.] Solid angle. (Geom.) See under
Angle.
 -- Solid color, an even color; one not shaded or variegated.
 -- Solid green. See Emerald green (a), under Green.
 -- Solid measure (Arith.), a measure for volumes, in which the units
are each a cube of fixed linear magnitude, as a cubic foot, yard, or
the like; thus, a foot, in solid measure, or a solid foot, contains
1,728 solid inches.
 -- Solid newel (Arch.), a newel into which the ends of winding
stairs are built, in distinction from a hollow newel. See under
Hollow, a.
 -- Solid problem (Geom.), a problem which can be construed
geometrically, only by the intersection of a circle and a conic
section or of two conic sections. Hutton.
 -- Solid square (Mil.), a square body or troops in which the ranks
and files are equal.

Syn.
 -- Hard; firm; compact; strong; substantial; stable; sound; real;
valid; true; just; weighty; profound; grave; important.
 -- Solid, Hard. These words both relate to the internal constitution
of bodies; but hardnotes a more impenetrable nature or a firmer
adherence of the component parts than solid. Hard is opposed to soft,
and solid to fluid, liquid, open, or hollow. Wood is usually solid;
but some kinds of wood are hard, and others are soft.
Repose you there; while I [return] to this hard house, More harder
than the stones whereof 't is raised. Shak.
I hear his thundering voice resound, And trampling feet than shake
the solid ground. Dryden.

SOLID
Sol"id, n.

1. A substance that is held in a fixed form by cohesion among its
particles; a substance not fluid.

2. (Geom.)

Defn: A magnitude which has length, breadth, and thickness; a part of
space bounded on all sides. Solid of revolution. (Geom.) See
Revolution, n., 5.

SOLIDAGO
Sol`i*da"go, n. Etym: [NL., fr. L. solidare to strengthen, unite; --
so called in allusion to its reputed healing qualities.] (Bot.)

Defn: A genus of yellow-flowered composite perennial herbs; golden-
rod.

SOLIDARE
Sol"i*dare, n. Etym: [LL. solidus. Cf. Sou.]

Defn: A small piece of money. [Obs.] Shak.

SOLIDARITY
Sol`i*dar"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. solidarite, fr. solide. See Solid.]

Defn: An entire union or consolidation of interests and
responsibilities; fellowship; community.
Solidarity [a word which we owe to the French Communists], signifies
a fellowship in gain and loss, in honor and dishonor, in victory and
defeat, a being, so to speak, all in the same boat. Trench.
The solidarity . . . of Breton and Welsh poetry. M. Arnold.

SOLIDARY
Sol"i*da*ry, a.

Defn: Having community of interests and responsibilities.
Men are solidary, or copartners; and not isolated. M. Arnold.

SOLIDATE
Sol"i*date, v. t. Etym: [L. solidatus, p. p. of solidare. See
Solder.]

Defn: To make solid or firm. [Obs.] Cowley.

SOLID-DRAWN
Sol"id-drawn`, a.

Defn: Drawn out from a heated solid bar, as by a process of spiral
rolling which first hollows the bar and then expands the cavity by
forcing the bar over a pointed mandrel fixed in front of the rolls; -
- said of a weldless tube.

SOLIDIFIABLE
So*lid"i*fi`a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being solidified.

SOLIDIFICATION
So*lid`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. F. solidification.]

Defn: Act of solidifying, or state of being solidified.

SOLIDIFY
So*lid"i*fy, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Solidified; p. pr. & vb. n.
Solidifying.] Etym: [Solid + -fy: cf. F. solidifier.]

Defn: To make solid or compact.
Every machine is a solidified mechanical theorem. H. Spencer.

SOLIDIFY
So*lid"i*fy, v. i.

Defn: To become solid; to harden.

SOLIDISM
Sol"id*ism, n. (Med.)

Defn: The doctrine that refers all diseases to morbid changes of the
solid parts of the body. It rests on the view that the solids alone
are endowed with vital properties, and can receive the impression of
agents tending to produce disease.

SOLIDIST
Sol"id*ist, n. (Med.)

Defn: An advocate of, or believer in, solidism. Dunglison.

SOLIDITY
So*lid"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. soliditas: cf. F. solidite.]

1. The state or quality of being solid; density; consistency, --
opposed to fluidity; compactness; fullness of matter, -- opposed to
openness or hollowness; strength; soundness, -- opposed to weakness
or instability; the primary quality or affection of matter by which
its particles exclude or resist all others; hardness; massiveness.
That which hinders the approach of two bodies when they are moving
one toward another, I call solidity. Locke.

2. Moral firmness; soundness; strength; validity; truth; certainty; -
- as opposed to weakness or fallaciousness; as, the solidity of
arguments or reasoning; the solidity of principles, triuths, or
opinions.

3. (Geom.)

Defn: The solid contents of a body; volume; amount of inclosed space.

Syn.
 -- Firmness; solidness; hardness; density; compactness; strength;
soundness; validity; certainty.

SOLIDLY
Sol"id*ly, adv.

Defn: In a solid manner; densely; compactly; firmly; truly.

SOLIDNESS
Sol"id*ness, n.

1. State or quality of being solid; firmness; compactness; solidity,
as of material bodies.

2. Soundness; strength; truth; validity, as of arguments, reasons,
principles, and the like.

SOLIDUNGULA
Sol`id*un"gu*la, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. solidus solid + ungula a
hoof.] (Zool.)

Defn: A tribe of ungulates which includes the horse, ass, and related
species, constituting the family Equid?.

SOLIDUNGULAR
Sol`id*un"gu*lar, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Solipedous.

SOLIDUNGULATE
Sol`id*un"gu*late, n. Etym: [Solid + ungulate.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Soliped.

SOLIDUNGULOUS
Sol`id*un"gu*lous, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Solipedous.

SOLIFIDIAN
Sol`i*fid"i*an, n. Etym: [L. solus alone + fides faith.] (Eccl.)

Defn: One who maintains that faith alone, without works, is
sufficient for justification; -- opposed to nullifidian. Hammond.

SOLIFIDIAN
Sol`i*fid"i*an, a.

Defn: Holding the tenets of Solifidians; of or pertaining to the
solifidians.

SOLIFIDIANISM
Sol`i*fid"i*an*ism, n.

Defn: The state of Solifidians.

SOLIFORM
Sol"i*form, a. Etym: [L. sol sun + -form.]

Defn: Like the sun in form, appearance, or nature; resembling the
sun. [R.] "Soliform things." Cudworth.

SOLIFUGAE
So*lif"u*g?, n. pl. Etym: [NL., from L. solifuga (better solipuga), a
kind of venomous ant, or spider.] (Zool.)

Defn: A division of arachnids having large, powerful fangs and a
segmented abdomen; -- called also Solpugidea, and Solpugides.

SOLILOQUIZE
So*lil"o*quize, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Soliloquized; p. pr. & vb. n.
Soliloquizing.]

Defn: To utter a soliloquy; to talk to one's self.

SOLILOQUY
So*lil"o*quy, n.; pl. Soliloquies. Etym: [L. soliloquium; solus alone
+ loqui to speak. See Sole ly, and Loquacious.]

1. The act of talking to one's self; a discourse made by one in
solitude to one's self; monologue.
Lovers are always allowed the comfort of soliloquy. Spectator.

2. A written composition, reciting what it is supposed a person says
to himself.
The whole poem is a soliloquy. Prior.

SOLIPED
Sol"i*ped, n. Etym: [Cf. F. solipede, It. solipede, Sp. solipedo;
apparently fr. L. solus alone + pes, pedis, a foot; but probably fr.
L. solidipes solid-footed, whole-hoofed. See Solid, and Pedal.]
(Zool.)

Defn: A mammal having a single hoof on each foot, as the horses and
asses; a solidungulate. [Written also solipede.]
The solipeds, or firm-hoofed animals, as horses, asses, and mules,
etc., -- they are, also, in mighty number. Sir T. Browne.

SOLIPEDOUS
So*lip"e*dous, a.

Defn: Having single hoofs.

SOLIPSISM
So*lip"sism, n. Etym: [L. solus alone + ipse self.]

1. (Ethics)

Defn: Egotism. Krauth-Fleming.

2. (Metaph.)

Defn: Egoism. Krauth-Fleming.

SOLISEQUIOUS
Sol`i*se"qui*ous, a. Etym: [L. sol sun + sequi to follow.]

Defn: Following the course of the sun; as, solisequious plants. [R.]
Sir T. Browne.

SOLITAIRE
Sol`i*taire", n. Etym: [F. See Solitary.]

1. A person who lives in solitude; a recluse; a hermit. Pope.

2. A single diamond in a setting; also, sometimes, a precious stone
of any kind set alone.
Diamond solitaires blazing on his breast and wrists. Mrs. R. H.
Davis.

3. A game which one person can play alone; -- applied to many games
of cards, etc.; also, to a game played on a board with pegs or balls,
in which the object is, beginning with all the places filled except
one, to remove all but one of the pieces by "jumping," as in
draughts.

4. (Zool.)
(a) A large extinct bird (Pezophaps solitaria) which formerly
inhabited the islands of Mauritius and Rodrigeuz. It was larger and
taller than the wild turkey. Its wings were too small for flight.
Called also solitary.
(b) Any species of American thrushlike birds of the genus Myadestes.
They are noted their sweet songs and retiring habits. Called also
fly-catching thrush. A West Indian species (Myadestes sibilans) is
called the invisible bird.

SOLITARIAN
Sol`i*ta"ri*an, n. Etym: [See Solitary.]

Defn: A hermit; a solitary. [Obs.] Sir R. Twisden.

SOLITARIETY
Sol`i*ta*ri"e*ty, n.

Defn: The state of being solitary; solitariness. [Obs.] Cudworth.

SOLITARILY
Sol"i*ta*ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a solitary manner; in solitude; alone. Mic. vii. 14.

SOLITARINESS
Sol"i*ta*ri*ness, n.

Defn: Condition of being solitary.

SOLITARY
Sol"i*ta*ry, a. Etym: [L. solitarius, fr. solus alone: cf. F.
solitaire. See Sole, a., and cf. Solitaire.]

1. Living or being by one's self; having no companion present; being
without associates; single; alone; lonely.
Those rare and solitary, these in flocks. Milton.
Hie home unto my chamber, Where thou shalt find me, sad and solitary.
Shak.

2. Performed, passed, or endured alone; as, a solitary journey; a
solitary life.
Satan . . . explores his solitary flight. Milton.

3. ot much visited or frequented remote from society; retired;
lonely; as, a solitary residence or place.

4. Not inhabited or occupied; without signs of inhabitants or
occupation; desolate; deserted; silent; still; hence, gloomy; dismal;
as, the solitary desert.
How doth the city sit solitary, that was full of people. Lam. i. 1.
Let that night be solitary; let no joyful voice come therein. Job
iii. 7.

5. Single; individual; sole; as, a solitary instance of vengeance; a
solitary example.

6. (Bot.)

Defn: Not associated with others of the same kind. Solitary ant
(Zool.), any solitary hymenopterous insect of the family Mutillid?.
The female of these insects is destitute of wings and has a powerful
sting. The male is winged and resembles a wasp. Called also spider
ant.
 -- Solitary bee (Zool.), any species of bee which does not form
communities.
 -- Solitary sandpiper (Zool.), an American tattler (Totanus
solitarius).
 -- Solitary snipe (Zool.), the great snipe. [Prov. Eng.] -- Solitary
thrush (Zool.) the starling. [Prov. Eng.]

SOLITARY
Sol"i*ta*ry, n.

Defn: One who lives alone, or in solitude; an anchoret; a hermit; a
recluse.

SOLITUDE
Sol"i*tude, n. Etym: [F., from L. solitudo, solus alone. See Sole,
a.]

1. state of being alone, or withdrawn from society; a lonely life;
loneliness.
Whosoever is delighted with solitude is either a wild beast or a god.
Bacon.
O Solitude! where are the charms That sages have seen in thy face
Cowper.

2. Remoteness from society; destitution of company; seclusion; --
said of places; as, the solitude of a wood.
The solitude of his little parish is become matter of great comfort
to him. Law.

3. solitary or lonely place; a desert or wilderness.
In these deep solitudes and awful cells Where heavenly pensive
contemplation dwells. Pope.

Syn. Loneliness; soitariness; loneness; retiredness; recluseness.
 -- Solitude, Retirement, Seclusion, Loneliness. Retirement is a
withdrawal from general society, implying that a person has been
engaged in its scenes. Solitude describes the fact that a person is
alone; seclusion, that he is shut out from others, usually by his own
choice; loneliness, that he feels the pain and oppression of being
alone. Hence, retirement is opposed to a gay, active, or public life;
solitude, to society; seclusion, to freedom of access on the part of
others; and loneliness, enjoyment of that society which the heart
demands.
O blest retirement, friend to life's decline. Goldsmith.
Such only can enjoy the country who are capable of thinking when they
are there; then they are prepared for solitude; and in that [the
country] solitude is prepared for them. Dryden.
It is a place of seclusion from the external world. Bp. Horsley.
These evils . . . seem likely to reduce it [a city] ere long to the
loneliness and the insignificance of a village. Eustace.

SOLIVAGANT
So*liv"a*gant, a. Etym: [L. solus alone + vagans wandering.]

Defn: Wandering alone. [R.] T. Grander.

SOLIVAGOUS
So*liv"a*gous, a. Etym: [L. solivagus.]

Defn: Solivagant.

SOLLAR
Sol"lar, n.

1. See Solar, n. [Obs.]

2. (Mining)

Defn: A platform in a shaft, especially one of those between the
series of ladders in a shaft.

SOLLAR
Sol"lar, v. t.

Defn: To cover, or provide with, a sollar.

SOLLEIN
Sol"lein, a.

Defn: Sullen; sad. [Obs.] Spenser.

SOLLERET
Sol*ler*et", n. Etym: [F. soleretim. fr. OF. soler shoe.]

Defn: A flexible steel shoe (or one of the plates forming such a
shoe), worn with medi?val armor.

SOLMIZATION
Sol`mi*za"tion, n. Etym: [F. solmisation, fr. solmiser to sol-fa; --
called from the musical notes sol, mi. See Sol-fa.] (Mus.)

Defn: The act of sol-faing. [Written also solmisation.]

Note: This art was practiced by the Greeks; but six of the seven
syllables now in use are generally attributed to Guido d' Arezzo, an
Italian monk of the eleventh century, who is said to have taken them
from the first syllables of the first six lines of the following
stanza of a monkish hymn to St. John the Baptist. --
Ut queant laxis Resonare fibris Mira gestorum Famuli tuorum Solve
polluti Labii reatum, Sancte Joannes. Professor Skeat says the name
of the seventh note, si, was also formed by him [Guido] from the
initials of the two words of the last line; but this is disputed,
Littre attributing the first use of it to Anselm of Flanders long
afterwards. The syllable do is often substituted for ut.

SOLO
So"lo, n.; pl. E. Solos, It. Soli. Etym: [It., from L. solus alone.
See Sole, a.] (Mus.)

Defn: A tune, air, strain, or a whole piece, played by a single
person on an instrument, or sung by a single voice.

SOLOIST
So"lo*ist, n. (Mus.)

Defn: One who sings or plays a solo.

SOLOMON
Sol"o*mon, n.

Defn: One of the kings of Israel, noted for his superior wisdom and
magnificent reign; hence, a very wise man.
 -- Sol`o*mon"ic, a. Solomon's seal (Bot.), a perennial liliaceous
plant of the genus Polygonatum, having simple erect or curving stems
rising from thick and knotted rootstocks, and with white or greenish
nodding flowers. The commonest European species is Polygonatum
multiflorum. P. biflorum and P. giganteum are common in the Eastern
United States. See Illust. of Rootstock. False Solomon's seal (Bot.),
any plant of the liliaceous genus Smilacina having small whitish
flowers in terminal racemes or panicles.

SOLOMON'S SEAL
Sol"o*mon's seal.

Defn: A mystic symbol consisting of two interlaced triangles forming
a star with six points, often with one triangle dark and one light,
symbolic of the union of soul and body.

SOLON
So"lon, n.

Defn: A celebrated Athenian lawmaker, born about 638 b. c.; hence, a
legislator; a publicist; -- often used ironically.

SOLO WHIST
Solo whist.

Defn: A card game played with the full pack ranking as at whist, each
player declaring for which of seven different points he proposes to
play.

SOLPUGID
Sol*pu"gid, a. (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Solifug?.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Solifug?.

SOLPUGIDEA
Sol`pu*gid"e*a, n. pl. Etym: [NL. See Solifug?.] (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Solifug?.

SOLSTICE
Sol"stice, n.Etym: [L. solstitium; sol the sun + sistere to cause to
stand, akin to stare to stand: cf. F. solstice. See Solar, a., Stand,
v. i.]

1. A stopping or standing still of the sun. [Obs.] Sir T. Browne.

2. (Astron.)
(a) The point in the ecliptic at which the sun is farthest from the
equator, north or south, namely, the first point of the sign Cancer
and the first point of the sign Capricorn, the former being the
summer solstice, latter the winter solstice, in northern latitudes; -
- so called because the sun then apparently stands still in its
northward or southward motion.
(b) The time of the sun's passing the solstices, or solstitial
points, namely, about June 21 and December 21. See Illust. in
Appendix.

SOLSTITIAL
Sol*sti"tial, a. Etym: [L. solstitialis: cf. F. solsticial.]

1. Of or pertaining to a solstice.

2. Happening at a solstice; esp. (with reference to the northern
hemisphere), happening at the summer solstice, or midsummer.
"Solstitial summer's heat." Milton.

SOLUBILITY
Sol`u*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [Cf. F. solubilite.]

1. The quality, condition, or degree of being soluble or solvable;
as, the solubility of a salt; the solubility of a problem or
intricate difficulty.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The tendency to separate readily into parts by spurious
articulations, as the pods of tick trefoil.

SOLUBLE
Sol"u*ble, a. Etym: [L. solubilis, fr. solvere, solutum, to loosen,
to dissolve: cf. F. soluble. See Solve, and cf. Solvable.]

1. Susceptible of being dissolved in a fluid; capable of solution;
as, some substances are soluble in alcohol which are not soluble in
water.
Sugar is . . . soluble in water and fusible in fire. Arbuthnot.

2. Susceptible of being solved; as, a soluble algebraic problem;
susceptible of being disentangled, unraveled, or explained; as, the
mystery is perhaps soluble. "More soluble is this knot." Tennyson.

3. Relaxed; open or readily opened. [R.] "The bowels must be kept
soluble." Dunglison. Soluble glass. (Chem.) See under Glass.

SOLUBLENESS
Sol"u*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality or state of being soluble.

SOLUS; SOLA
So"lus, masc. a., So"la, fem. a. Etym: [L.]

Defn: Alone; -- chiefly used in stage directions, and the like.

SOLUTE
So*lute", a. Etym: [L. solutus, p.p. of solvere to loosen. See
Solve.]

1. Loose; free; liberal; as, a solute interpretation. [Obs.] Bacon.

2. Relaxed; hence; merry; cheerful. [R.]
A brow solute, and ever-laughing eye. Young.

3. Soluble; as, a solute salt. [Obs.]

4. (Bot.)

Defn: Not adhering; loose; -- opposed to adnate; as, a solute
stipule.

SOLUTE
So*lute", v. t.

1. To dissolve; to resolve. [Obs.]

2. To absolve; as, to solute sin. [Obs.] Bale.

SOLUTION
So*lu"tion, n. Etym: [OE. solucion, OF. solucion, F. solution, fr. L.
solutio, fr. solvere, solutum, to loosen, dissolve. See Solve.]

1. The act of separating the parts of any body, or the condition of
undergoing a separation of parts; disruption; breach.
In all bodies there is an appetite of union and evitation of solution
of continuity. Bacon.

2. The act of solving, or the state of being solved; the
disentanglement of any intricate problem or difficult question;
explanation; clearing up; -- used especially in mathematics, either
of the process of solving an equation or problem, or the result of
the process.

3. The state of being dissolved or disintegrated; resolution;
disintegration.
It is unquestionably an enterprise of more promise to assail the
nations in their hour of faintness and solution, than at a time when
magnificent and seductive systems of worship were at their height of
energy and splendor. I. Taylor.

4. (Chem.Phys.)

Defn: The act or process by which a body (whether solid, liquid, or
gaseous) is absorbed into a liquid, and, remaining or becoming fluid,
is diffused throughout the solvent; also, the product reulting from
such absorption.

Note: When a solvent will not take in any more of a substance the
solution is said to be saturated. Solution is two kinds; viz.: (a)
Mechanical solution, in which no marked chemical change takes place,
and in which, in the case of solids, teh dissolved body can be
regained by evaporation, as in the solution of salt or sugar in
water. (b) Chemical solution, in which there is involved a decided
chemical change, as when limestone or zinc undergoes solution in
hydrochloric acid. Mechanical solution is regarded as a form of
molecular or atomic attraction, and is probably occasioned by the
formation of certain very weak and unstable compounds which are
easily dissociated and pass into new and similar compounds.

Note: This word is not used in chemistry or mineralogy for fusion, or
the melting of bodies by the heat of fire.

5. release; deliverance; disharge. [Obs.] Barrow.

6. (Med.)
(a) The termination of a disease; resolution.
(b) A crisis.
(c) A liquid medicine or preparation (usually aqueous) in which the
solid ingredients are wholly soluble. U. S. Disp. Fehling's solution
(Chem.), a standardized solution of cupric hydrate in sodium
potassium tartrate, used as a means of determining the reducing power
of certain sugars and sirups by the amount of red cuprous oxide
thrown down.
 -- Heavy solution (Min.), a liquid of high density, as a solution of
mercuric iodide in potassium iodide (called the Sonstadt or Thoulet
solution) having a maximum specific gravity of 3.2, or of
borotungstate of cadium (Klein solution, specific gravity 3.6), and
the like. Such solutions are much used in determining the specific
gravities of minerals, and in separating them when mechanically mixed
as in a pulverized rock.
 -- Nessler's solution. See Nesslerize.
 -- Solution of continuity, the separation of connection, or of
connected substances or parts; -- applied, in surgery, to a facture,
laceration, or the like. "As in the natural body a wound, or solution
of continuity, is worse than a corrupt humor, so in the spiritual."
Bacon.
 -- Standardized solution (Chem.), a solution which is used as a
reagent, and is of a known and standard strength; specifically, a
normal solution, containing in each cubic centimeter as many
milligrams of the element in question as the number representing its
atomic weight; thus, a normal solution of silver nitrate would
contain 107.7 mgr. of silver nitrate in each cubic centimeter.

SOLUTIVE
Sol"u*tive, a. Etym: [Cf. F. solutif.]

Defn: Tending to dissolve; loosening; laxative. Bacon.

SOLVABILITY
Solv`a*bil"i*ty, n. Etym: [F. solvabilite.]

1. The quality or state of being solvable; as, the solvability of a
difficulty; the solvability of a problem.

2. The condition of being solvent; ability to pay all just debts;
solvency; as, the solvability of a merchant.

SOLVABLE
Solv"a*ble, a. Etym: [F. solvable. See Solve, and cf. Soluble,
Solvible.]

1. Susceptible of being solved, resolved, or explained; admitting of
solution.

2. Capable of being paid and discharged; as, solvable obligations.
Tooke.

3. Able to pay one's debts; solvent. [Obs.] Fuller.

SOLVABLENESS
Solv"a*ble*ness, n.

Defn: Quality of being solvable.

SOLVE
Solve, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Solved; p. pr. & vb. n. Solving.] Etym:
[L. solvere, solutum; from a prefix so- expressing separation (cf.
Sober) + luere to loosen; cf. OF. soldre, soudre. See Loose, and cf.
Absolve.]

Defn: To explain; to resolve; to unfold; to clear up out to a result
or conclusion; as, to solve a doubt; to solve difficulties; to solve
a problem.
True piety would effectually solve such scruples. South.
God shall solve the dark decrees of fate. Tickell.

Syn.
 -- To explain; resolve; unfold; clear up.

SOLVE
Solve, n.

Defn: A solution; an explanation. [Obs.] Shak.

SOLVENCY
Sol"ven*cy, n. Etym: [See Solvent.]

Defn: The quality or state of being solvent.

SOLVEND
Sol"vend, n. Etym: [L. solvendus to be loosened or dissolved, fr.
solvere. See Solution.]

Defn: A substance to be dissolved. [R.]

SOLVENT
Sol"vent, a. Etym: [L. solvens, p.pr. of solvere. See Solvable.]

1. Having the power of dissolving; dissolving; as, a solvent fluid.
"the solvent body." Boyle.

2. Able or sufficient to pay all just debts; as, a solvent merchant;
the estate is solvent.

SOLVENT
Sol"vent, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A substance (usually liquid) suitable for, or employed in,
solution, or in dissolving something; as, water is the appropriate
solvent of most salts, alcohol of resins, ether of fats, and mercury
or acids of metal, etc.

2. That which resolves; as, a solvent of mystery.

SOLVER
Sol"ver, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, solves.

SOLVIBLE
Solv"i*ble, a.

Defn: See Solvable.

SOLY
Sol"y, adv.

Defn: Solely. [Obs.] Spenser.

SOMA
So"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The whole axial portion of an animal, including the head, neck,
trunk, and tail. B. G. Wilder.

SOMAJ; SAMAJ
So"maj", Sa*maj", n.

Defn: A society; a congregation; a worshiping assembly, or church,
esp. of the Brahmo-somaj. [India]

SOMALI; SOMAL
So*ma"li, So*mal", n. (Ethnol.)

Defn: A Hamitic people of East Central Africa.

SOMATIC
So*mat"ic, a. Etym: [Gr.

1. Of or pertaining to the body as a whole; corporeal; as, somatic
death; somatic changes.

2. Of or pertaining to the wall of the body; somatopleuric; parietal;
as, the somatic stalk of the yolk sac of an embryo. Somatic death.
See the Note under Death, n., 1.

SOMATICAL
So*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Somatic.

SOMATICS
So*mat"ics, n.

Defn: The science which treats of the general properties of matter;
somatology.

SOMATIST
So"ma*tist, n.

Defn: One who admits the existence of material beings only; a
materialist. Glanvill.

SOMATOCYST
So"ma*to*cyst, n. Etym: [Gr. (Zool.)

Defn: A cavity in the primary nectocalyx of certain Siphonophora. See
Illust. under Nectocalyx.

SOMATOLOGY
So`ma*tol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

1. The dictrine or the science of the general properties of material
substances; somatics.

2. A treatise on the human body; anatomy. Dunglison.

SOMATOME
So"ma*tome, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat. & (Zool.)

Defn: See Somite.

SOMATOPLEURE
So"ma*to*pleure, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.)

Defn: The outer, or parietal, one of the two lamell? into which the
vertebrate blastoderm divides on either side of the notochord, and
from which the walls of the body and the amnion are developed. See
Splanchopleure.

SOMATOPLEURIC
So`ma*to*pleu"ric, a. (Anat.)

Defn: of or pertaining to the somatopleure.

SOMATOTROPISM
So`ma*tot"ro*pism, n. Etym: [Gr. (Physiol.)

Defn: A directive influence exercised by a mass of matter upon
growing organs. Encyc. Brit.

SOMBER; SOMBRE
Som"ber, Som"bre, a. Etym: [F. sombre; cf. Sp. sombra, shade, prob.
from LL. subumbrare to put in the shade; L. sub under + umbra shade.
See Umbrage.]

1. Dull; dusky; somewhat dark; gloomy; as, a somber forest; a somber
house.

2. Melancholy; sad; grave; depressing; as, a somber person; somber
reflections.
The dinner was silent and somber; happily it was also short.
Beaconsfield.

SOMBER; SOMBRE
Som"ber, Som"bre, v. t.

Defn: To make somber, or dark; to make shady. [R.]

SOMBER; SOMBRE
Som"ber, Som"bre, n.

Defn: Gloom; obscurity; duskiness; somberness. [Obs.]

SOMBERLY; SOMBRELY
Som"ber*ly, Som"bre*ly, adv.

Defn: In a somber manner; sombrously; gloomily; despondingly.

SOMBERNESS; SOMBRENESS
Som"ber*ness, Som"bre*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being somber; gloominess.

SOMBRERO
Som*bre"ro, n. Etym: [Sp., from sombra shade. See Sombre.]

Defn: A kind of broad-brimmed hat, worn in Spain and in Spanish
America. Marryat.

SOMBROUS
Som"brous, a. Etym: [Cf. Sp. sombroso.]

Defn: Gloomy; somber. "Tall and sombrous pines." Longfellow.
 -- Som"brous*ly, adv.
 -- Som"brous*ness, n.

-SOME
-some (-som).

Defn: A combining form or suffix from Gr. sw^ma (gen. sw`matos) the
body; as in merosome, a body segment; cephalosome, etc.

-SOME
-some (-sum). Etym: [AS. -sum; akin to G. & OHG. -sam, Icel. samr,
Goth. lustusams longed for. See Same, a., and cf. Some, a.]

Defn: An adjective suffix having primarily the sense of like or same,
and indicating a considerable degree of the thing or quality denoted
in the first part of the compound; as in mettlesome, full of mettle
or spirit; gladsome, full of gladness; winsome, blithesome, etc.

SOME
Some, a. Etym: [OE. som, sum, AS. sum; akin to OS., OFries., & OHG.
sum, OD. som, D. sommig, Icel. sumr, Dan. somme (pl.), Sw. somlige
(pl.), Goth. sums, and E. same. sq. root191. See Same, a., and cf. -
some.]

1. Consisting of a greater or less portion or sum; composed of a
quantity or number which is not stated; -- used to express an
indefinite quantity or number; as, some wine; some water; some
persons. Used also pronominally; as, I have some.
Some theoretical writers allege that there was a time when there was
no such thing as society. Blackstone.

2. A certain; one; -- indicating a person, thing, event, etc., as not
known individually, or designated more specifically; as, some man,
that is, some one man. "Some brighter clime." Mrs. Barbauld.
Some man praiseth his neighbor by a wicked intent. Chaucer.
Most gentlemen of property, at some period or other of their lives,
are ambitious of representing their county in Parliament. Blackstone.

3. Not much; a little; moderate; as, the censure was to some extent
just.

4. About; near; more or less; -- used commonly with numerals, but
formerly also with a singular substantive of time or distance; as, a
village of some eighty houses; some two or three persons; some hour
hence. Shak.
The number slain on the rebel's part were some two thousand. Bacon.

5. Considerable in number or quality. "Bore us some leagues to sea."
Shak.
On its outer point, some miles away. The lighthouse lifts its massive
masonry. Longfellow.

6. Certain; those of one part or portion; -- in distinct from other
or others; as, some men believe one thing, and others another.
Some [seeds] fell among thorns; . . . but other fell into good
ground. Matt. xiii. 7, 8.

7. A part; a portion; -- used pronominally, and followed sometimes by
of; as, some of our provisions.
Your edicts some reclaim from sins, But most your life and blest
example wins. Dryden.
All and some, one and all. See under All, adv. [Obs.]

Note: The illiterate in the United States and Scotland often use some
as an adverb, instead of somewhat, or an equivalent expression; as, I
am some tired; he is some better; it rains some, etc. Some . . .
some, one part . . . another part; these . . . those; -- used
distributively.
Some to the shores do fly, Some to the woods, or whither fear
advised. Daniel.

Note: Formerly used also of single persons or things: this one . . .
that one; one . . . another.
Some in his bed, some in the deep sea. Chaucer.

SOMEBODY
Some"bod*y, n.

1. A person unknown or uncertain; a person indeterminate; some
person.
Jesus said, Somebody hath touched me. Luke viii. 46.
We must draw in somebody that may stand "Twixt us and danger."
Denham.

2. A person of consideration or importance.
Before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody.
Acts v. 36.

SOMEDEAL
Some"deal`, adv.

Defn: In some degree; somewhat. [Written also sumdel, sumdeale, and
sumdele.] [Obs.] "She was somedeal deaf." Chaucer.
Thou lackest somedeal their delight. Spenser.

SOMEHOW
Some"how`, adv.

Defn: In one way or another; in some way not yet known or designated;
by some means; as, the thing must be done somehow; he lives somehow.
By their action upon one another they may be swelled somehow, so as
to shorten the length. Cheyne.

Note: The indefiniteness of somehow is emphasized by the addition of
or other.
Although youngest of the familly, he has somehow or other got the
entire management of all the others. Sir W. Scott.

SOMERSAULT; SOMERSET
Som"er*sault, Som"er*set, n. Etym: [F. soubresaut a jump, leap, OF.
soubresault, It. soprassalto an overleap, fr. L. supra over + saltus
a leap, fr. salire to leap; or the French may be from Sp. sobresalto
a sudden asault, a surprise. See Supra, and Salient.]

Defn: A leap in which a person turns his heels over his head and
lights upon his feet; a turning end over end. [Written also
summersault, sommerset, summerset, etc.] "The vaulter's sombersalts."
Donne.
Now I'll only Make him break his neck in doing a sommerset. Beau. &
Fl.

SOMETHING
Some"thing, n.

1. Anything unknown, undetermined, or not specifically designated; a
certain indefinite thing; an indeterminate or unknown event; an
unspecified task, work, or thing.
There is something in the wind. Shak.
The whole world has something to do, something to talk of, something
to wish for, and something to be employed about. Pope.
Something attemped, something done, Has earned a night's repose.
Longfellow.

2. A part; a portion, more or less; an indefinite quantity or degree;
a little.
Something yet of doubt remains. Milton.
Something of it arises from our infant state. I. Watts.

3. A person or thing importance.
If a man thinketh himself to be something, when he is nothing, he
deceiveth himself. Gal. vi. 3.

SOMETHING
Some"thing

Defn: , adv. In some degree; somewhat; to some exrent; at some
distance. Shak.
I something fear my father's wrath. Shak.
We have something fairer play than a reasoner could have expected
formerly. Burke.
My sense of touch is something coarse. Tennyson.
It must be done to-night, And something from the palace. Shak.

SOMETIME
Some"time`, adv.

1. At a past time indefinitely referred to; once; formerly.
Did they not sometime cry "All hail" to me Shak.

2. At a time undefined; once in a while; now and then; sometimes.
Sometime we see a cloud that's dragonish, A vapor sometime like a
bear or lion. Shak.

3. At one time or other hereafter; as, I will do it sometime.
"Sometime he reckon shall." Chaucer.

SOMETIME
Some"time`, a.

Defn: Having been formerly; former; late; whilom.
Our sometime sister, now our queen. Shak.
Ion, our sometime darling, whom we prized. Talfourd.

SOMETIMES
Some"times`, adv. Etym: [Sometime + adverbial ending -s, as in -
wards.]

1. Formerly; sometime. [Obs.]
That fair and warlike form In which the majesty of buried Denmark Did
sometimes march. Shak.

2. At times; at intervals; now and then;occasionally.
It is good that we sometimes be contradicted. Jer. Taylor.
Sometimes . . . sometimes, at certain times . . . at certain other
times; as, sometimes he is earnest, sometimes he is frivolous.

SOMETIMES
Some"times`, a.

Defn: Former; sometime. [Obs.]
Thy sometimes brother's wife. Shak.

SOMEWHAT
Some"what`, n.

1. More or less; a certain quantity or degree; a part, more or less;
something.
These salts have somewhat of a nitrous taste. Grew.
Somewhat of his good sense will suffer, in this transfusion, and much
of the beauty of his thoughts will be lost. Dryden.

2. A person or thing of importance; a somebody.
Here come those that worship me. They think that I am somewhat.
Tennyson.

SOMEWHAT
Some"what`, adv.

Defn: In some degree or measure; a little.
His giantship is gone, somewhat crestfallen. Milton.
Somewhat back from the village street. Longfellow.

SOMEWHEN
Some"when`, adv.

Defn: At some indefinite time. [R.]

SOMEWHERE
Some"where`, adv.

Defn: In some place unknown or not specified; in one place or
another. "Somewhere nigh at hand." Milton.

SOMEWHILE
Some"while`, adv.

Defn: Once; for a time.
Though, under color of shepherds, somewhile There crept in wolves,
full of fraund and guile. Spenser.

SOMEWHITHER
Some"whith`er, adv.

Defn: To some indeterminate place; to some place or other.
Driven by the winds of temptation somewhither. Barrow.

SOMITE
So"mite, n. Etym: [Gr. (Anat.& Zool.)

Defn: One of the actual or ideal serial segments of which an animal,
esp. an articulate or vertebrate, is composed; somatome; metamere.
 -- So*mit`ic, a.

SOMMEIL
Som`meil", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: Slumber; sleep.

SOMMERSET
Som"mer*set, n.

Defn: See Somersault.

SOMNAMBULAR
Som*nam"bu*lar, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to somnambulism; somnambulistic. Mrs.
Browning.

SOMNAMBULATE
Som*nam"bu*late, v. i. & t.

Defn: To walk when

SOMNAMBULATION
Som*nam`bu*la"tion, n. Etym: [L. somnus sleep + ambulatio a walking
about, from ambulare to walk. See Somnolent, Amble.]

Defn: The act of walking in sleep.

SOMNAMBULATOR
Som*nam"bu*la`tor, n.

Defn: A somnambulist.

SOMNAMBULE
Som*nam"bule, n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A somnambulist.

SOMNAMBULIC
Som*nam"bu*lic, a.

Defn: Somnambulistic.

SOMNAMBULISM
Som*nam"bu*lism, n. Etym: [Cf. F. somnambulisme. See Somnambulation.]

Defn: A condition of the nervous system in which an individual during
sleep performs actions approppriate to the waking state; a state of
sleep in which some of the senses and voluntary powers are partially
awake; noctambulism.

SOMNAMBULIST
Som*nam"bu*list, n.

Defn: A person who is subject to somnambulism; one who walks in his
sleep; a sleepwalker; a noctambulist.

SOMNAMBULISTIC
Som*nam`bu*lis"tic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a somnambulist or somnambulism; affected by
somnambulism; appropriate to the state of a somnambulist.
Whether this was an intentional and waking departure, or a
somnambulistic leave-taking and waking in her sleep, may remain a
subject of contention. Dickens.

SOMNE
Som"ne, v. t.

Defn: To summon. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOMNER
Som"ner, n.

Defn: A summoner; esp., one who summons to an ecclesiastical court.
[Obs.] Piers Plowman.

SOMNIAL
Som"ni*al, a. Etym: [L. spmnialis dream bringing, fr. somnium dream,
fr. somnus sleep.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to sleep or dreams.
The somnial magic superinducted on, without suspending, the active
powers of the mind. Coleridge.

SOMNIATIVE
Som"ni*a*tive, a.

Defn: Somnial; somniatory. [R.]

SOMNIATORY
Som"ni*a*to*ry, a.

Defn: Pertaining to sleep or dreams; somnial. [Obs. or R.] Urquhart.

SOMNICULOUS
Som*nic"u*lous, a. Etym: [L. somniculosus.]

Defn: Inclined to sleep; drowsy; sleepy. [Obs.]

SOMNIFEROUS
Som*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. somnifer; somnus sleep + ferre to
bring.]

Defn: Causing or inducing sleep; soporific; dormitive; as, a
somniferous potion. Walton.

SOMNIFIC
Som*nif"ic, a. Etym: [L. somnificus; somnus sleep + facere to make.]

Defn: Causing sleep; somniferous.

SOMNIFUGOUS
Som*nif"u*gous, a. Etym: [L. somnus sleep + fugare to put to flight.]

Defn: Driving away sleep. [Obs.]

SOMNILOQUENCE
Som*nil"o*quence, n.

Defn: The act of talking in one's sleep; somniloquism.

SOMNILOQUISM
Som*nil"o*quism, n.

Defn: The act or habit of talking in one's sleep; somniloquy.
Coleridge.

SOMNILOQUIST
Som*nil"o*quist, n.

Defn: One who talks in his sleep.

SOMNILOQUOUS
Som*nil"o*quous, a. Etym: [L. somnus sleep + loqui to speak.]

Defn: Apt to talk in sleep.

SOMNILOQUY
Som*nil"o*quy, n.

Defn: A talking in sleep; the talking of one in a state of
somnipathy. [R.] Coleridge.

SOMNIPATHIST
Som*nip"a*thist, n.

Defn: A person in a state of somniapathy.

SOMNIPATHY
Som*nip"a*thy, n. Etym: [L. somnus sleep + Gr.

Defn: Sleep from sympathy, or produced by mesmerism or the like.
[Written also somnopathy.]

SOMNOLENCE; SOMNOLENCY
Som"no*lence, Som"no*len*cy, n. Etym: [L. somnolentia: cf. F.
somnolence.]

Defn: Sleepiness; drowsiness; inclination to sleep.

SOMNOLENT
Som"no*lent, a. Etym: [F. somnolent, L. somnolentus, from somnus
sleep, akin to Gr. svapna sleep, dream, svap to sleep, Icel. sofa,
AS. swefn sleep. Cf. Hypnotic, Somnambulism, Soporific.]

Defn: Sleepy; drowsy; inclined to sleep.
 -- Som"no*lent*ly, adv.
He had no eye for such phenomens, because he had a somnolent want of
interest in them. De Quincey.

SOMNOLISM
Som"no*lism, n.

Defn: The somnolent state induced by animal magnetism. Thomas (Med.
Dict.).

SOMNOPATHY
Som*nop"a*thy, n.

Defn: Somnipathy.

SOMNOUR
Som"nour, n.

Defn: A summoner; an apparitor; a sompnour. [Obs.] Piers Plowman.

SOMONAUNCE; SOMONCE
Som"on*aunce, Som"once, n. Etym: [See Summon, Summons.]

Defn: A summons; a citation. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOMONOUR
Som"on*our, n.

Defn: A summoner. [Obs.]

SOMPNE
Somp"ne ( or ), v. t.

Defn: To summon; to cite. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOMPNOUR
Somp"nour, n.

Defn: A summoner. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SON
Son, n. Etym: [OE. sone, sune, AS. sunu; akin to D. zoon, OS.,
OFries., & OHG. sunu, G. sohn, Icel. sonr, Sw. son, Dan. son, Goth.
sunus, Lith. sunus, Russ. suin', Skr. sunu (from su to beget, to
bear), and Gr. Sow, n.]

1. A male child; the male issue, or offspring, of a parent, father or
mother.
Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son. Gen. xxi. 2.

2. A male descendant, however distant; hence, in the plural,
descendants in general.
I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings. Isa. xix. 11.
I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not
consumed. Mal. iii. 6.

3. Any young male person spoken of as a child; an adopted male child;
a pupil, ward, or any other male dependent.
The child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he
became her son. Ex. ii. 10.
Be plain, good son, and homely in thy drift. Shak.

4. A native or inhabitant of some specified place; as, sons of
Albion; sons of New England.

5. The produce of anything.
Earth's tall sons, the cedar, oak, and pine. Blackmore.

6. (Commonly with the def. article)

Defn: Jesus Christ, the Savior; -- called the Son of God, and the Son
of man.
We . . . do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of
the world. 1 John iv. 14.
Who gave His Son sure all has given. Keble.

Note: The expressions son of pride, sons of light, son of Belial, are
Hebraisms, which denote persons possessing the qualitites of pride,
of light, or of Belial, as children inherit the qualities of their
ancestors. Sons of the prophets. See School of the prophets, under
Prophet.

SONANCE
So"nance, n.

1. A sound; a tune; as, to sound the tucket sonance. [Obs.] Shak.

2. The quality or state of being sonant.

SONANT
So"nant, a. Etym: [L. sonans, -antis, p.pr. of sonare to sound. See
Sound a noise.]

1. Of or pertaining to sound; sounding.

2. (Phonetics)

Defn: Uttered, as an element of speech, with tone or proper vocal
sound, as distinguished from mere breath sound; intonated; voiced;
tonic; the opposite of nonvocal, or surd; -- sid of the vowels,
semivowels, liquids, and nasals, and particularly of the consonants
b, d, g hard, v, etc., as compared with their cognates p, t, k, f,
etc., which are called nonvocal, surd, or aspirate.
 -- n.

Defn: A sonant letter.

SONATA
So*na"ta, n. Etym: [It., fr. It. & L. sonare to sound. See Sound a
noise.] (Mus.)

Defn: An extended composition for one or two instruments, consisting
usually of three or four movements; as, Beethoven's sonatas for the
piano, for the violin and piano, etc.

Note: The same general structure prevails in symphonies, instrumental
trios, quartets, etc., and even in classical concertos. The sonata
form, distinctively, characterizes the quick opening movement, which
may have a short, slow introduction; the second, or slow, movement is
either in the song or variation form; third comes the playful minuet
of the more modern scherzo; then the quick finale in the rondo form.
But both form and order are sometimes exceptional.

SONATINA
So`na*ti"na, n. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: A short and simple sonata.

SONCY; SONSY
Son"cy, Son"sy, a. Etym: [Scot. sonce, sons, prosperity, happiness,
fr. Gael. & Ir. sonas.]

Defn: Lucky; fortunate; thriving; plump. [Prov. Eng. & Scot.]

SOND; SONDE
Sond, Sonde, n. Etym: [AS. sand. See Send, v. t.]

Defn: That which is sent; a message or messenger; hence, also, a
visitation of providence; an affliction or trial. [Obs.]
Ye have enough, parde, of Goddes sond. Chaucer.

SONDELI
Son"de*li, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The musk shrew. See under Musk.

SONDERCLASS
Son"der*class`, n. [G. sonderklasse special class.] (Yachting)

Defn: A special class of small yachts developed in Germany under the
patronage of Emperor William and Prince Henry of Prussia, and so
called because these yachts do not conform to the restrictions for
the regular classes established by the rules of the International
Yacht Racing Union. In yachts of the sonderclass, as prescribed for
the season of 1911, the  aggregate of the length on water line,
extreme beam, and extreme draft must be not more than 32 feet; the
weight, not less than 4,035 pounds (without crew); the sail area, not
more than 550 square yards; and the cost of construction (for
American boats) not more than $2400. The crew must be amateurs and
citizens of the country in which the yacht was built.

SONG
Song, n. Etym: [AS. song, sang, fr. singan to sing; akin to D. zang,
G. sang, Icel. songr, Goeth. sagws. See Sing.]

1. That which is sung or uttered with musical modulations of the
voice, whether of a human being or of a bird, insect, etc. "That most
ethereal of all sounds, the song of crickets." Hawthorne.

2. A lyrical poem adapted to vocal music; a ballad.

3. More generally, any poetical strain; a poem.
The bard that first adorned our native tongue Tuned to his British
lyre this ancient song. Dryden.

4. Poetical composition; poetry; verse.
This subject for heroic song. Milton.

5. An object of derision; a laughingstock.
And now am I their song. yea, I am their byword. Job xxx. 9.

6. A trifle. "The soldier's pay is a song." Silliman. Old song, a
trifle; nothing of value. "I do not intend to be thus put off with an
old song." Dr. H. More.
 -- Song bird (Zool.), any singing bird; one of the Oscines.
 -- Song sparrow (Zool.), a very common North American sparrow
(Melospiza fasciata, or M. melodia) noted for the sweetness of its
song in early spring. Its breast is covered with dusky brown streaks
which form a blotch in the center.
 -- Song thrush (Zool.), a common European thrush (Turdus musicus),
noted for its melodius song; -- called also mavis, throsite, and
thrasher.

Syn.
 -- Sonnet; ballad; canticle; carol; canzonet; ditty; hymn; descant;
lay; strain; poesy; verse.

SONGCRAFT
Song"craft`, n.

Defn: The art of making songs or verse; metrical composition;
versification.
A half-effected inscription. Written with little skill of songcraft.
Longfellow.

SONGFUL
Song"ful, a.

Defn: Disposed to sing; full of song.

SONGISH
Song"ish, a.

Defn: Consisting of songs. [R.] Dryden.

SONGLESS
Song"less, a.

Defn: Destitute of the power of song; without song; as, songless
birds; songless woods.

SONGSTER
Song"ster, n. Etym: [AS. sangestre a female singer.]

1. One who sings; one skilled in singing; -- not often applied to
human beings.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A singing bird.

SONGSTRESS
Song"stress, n. Etym: [See Songster, and -ess.]

Defn: A woman who sings; a female singing bird. Thomson.

SONIFER
Son"i*fer, n. Etym: [NL. See Soniferous.]

Defn: A kind of ear trumpet for the deaf, or the partially deaf.

SONIFEROUS
So*nif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. sonus sound + -ferous.]

Defn: Sounding; producing sound; conveying sound.

SONIFICATION
Son`i*fi*ca"tion, n. Etym: [L. sonus sound + -ficare (in comp.) to
make. See -fy.]

Defn: The act of producing sound, as the stridulation of insects.

SON-IN-LAW
Son"-in-law`, n.; pl. Sons-in-law (.

Defn: The husband of one's daughter; a man in his relationship to his
wife's parents.
To take me as for thy son in lawe. Chaucer.

SONLESS
Son"less, a.

Defn: Being without a son. Marston.
As no baron who was sonless could give a husband to his daughter,
save with his lord's consent. J. R. Green.

SONNET
Son"net, n. Etym: [F., fr. It. sonetto, fr. suono a sound, a song,
fr. L. sonus a sound. See Sound noise.]

1. A short poem, -- usually amatory. [Obs.] Shak.
He had a wonderful desire to chant a sonnet or hymn unto Apollo
Pythius. Holland.

2. A poem of fourteen lines, -- two stanzas, called the octave, being
of four verses each, and two stanzas, called the sestet, of three
verses each, the rhymes being adjusted by a particular rule.

Note: In the proper sonnet each line has five accents, and the octave
has but two rhymes, the second, third, sixth, and seventh lines being
of one thyme, and the first, fourth, fifth, and eighth being of
another. In the sestet there are sometimes two and sometimes three
rhymes; but in some way its two stazas rhyme together. Often the
three lines of the first stanza rhyme severally with the three lines
of the second. In Shakespeare's sonnets, the first twelve lines
rhymed alternately, and the last two rhyme together.

SONNET
Son"net, v. i.

Defn: To compose sonnets. "Strains that come almost to sonneting."
Milton.

SONNETEER
Son`net*eer", n.

Defn: A composer of sonnets, or small poems; a small poet; -- usually
in contempt.
What woful stuff this madrigal would be In some starved hackney
sonneteer or me! Pope.

SONNETEER
Son`net*eer", v. i.

Defn: To compose sonnets. Lowell.

SONNETER
Son"net*er, n.

Defn: A composer of sonnets.

SONNETIST
Son"net*ist, n.

Defn: A sonneter, or sonneteer. Bp. Hall.

SONNETIZE
Son"net*ize, v. i.

Defn: To compose sonnets.

SONNISH
Son"nish, a.

Defn: Like the sun; sunny; golden. [Obs.] "Her sonnish hairs."
Chaucer.

SONNITE
Son"nite, n.

Defn: See Sunnite.

SONOMETER
So*nom"e*ter, n. Etym: [L. sonus a sound + -meter.]

1. (Physiol.)

Defn: An instrument for exhibiting the transverse vibrations of
cords, and ascertaining the relations between musical notes. It
consists of a cord stretched by weight along a box, and divided into
different lengths at pleasure by a bridge, the place of which is
determined by a scale on the face of the box.

2. An instrument for testing the hearing capacity.

SONORAN
So*no"ran, a. (Biogeography)

Defn: Pertaining to or designating the arid division of the Austral
zone, including the warmer parts of the western United States and
central Mexico. It is divided into the Upper Sonoran, which lies next
to the Transition zone, and the Lower Sonoran, next to the Tropical.

SONORIFIC
Son`o*rif"ic, a. Etym: [L. sonor, -oris, a sound + facere to make.
See Sonorous.]

Defn: Producing sound; as, the sonorific quality of a body. [R.] I.
Watts.

SONORITY
So*nor"i*ty, n. Etym: [L. sonoritas.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sonorous; sonorousness.

SONOROUS
So*no"rous, a. Etym: [L. sonorus, fr. sonor, -oris, a sound, akin to
sonus a sound. See Sound.]

1. Giving sound when struck; resonant; as, sonorous metals.

2. Loud-sounding; giving a clear or loud sound; as, a sonorous voice.

3. Yielding sound; characterized by sound; vocal; sonant; as, the
vowels are sonorous.

4. Impressive in sound; high-sounding.
The Italian opera, amidst all the meanness and familiarty of the
thoughts, has something beautiful and sonorous in the expression.
Addison.
There is nothing of the artificial Johnsonian balance in his style.
It is as often marked by a pregnant brevity as by a sonorous
amplitude. E. Everett.

5. (Med.)

Defn: Sonant; vibrant; hence, of sounds produced in a cavity, deep-
toned; as, sonorous rhonchi. Sonorous figures (Physics), figures
formed by the vibrations of a substance capable of emitting a musical
tone, as when the bow of a violin is drawn along the edge of a piece
of glass or metal on which sand is strewed, and the sand arranges
itself in figures according to the musical tone. Called also acoustic
figures.
 -- Sonorous tumor (Med.), a tumor which emits a clear, resonant
sound on percussion.
 -- So*no"rous*ly, adv.
 -- So*no"rous*ness, n.

SONSHIP
Son"ship, n.

Defn: The state of being a son, or of bearing the relation of a son;
filiation. Dr. H. More.

SONSY
Son"sy, a.

Defn: See Soncy. [Scot.] Burns.

SONTAG
Son"tag, n. Etym: [So called from from Mme. Henriette Sontag, a
famous singer.]

Defn: A knitted worsted jacket, worn over the waist of a woman's
dress.

SONTIES
Son"ties, n.

Defn: Probably from "saintes" saints, or from sanctities; -- used as
an oath. [Obs.] Shak.

SOOCHONG
Soo*chong", n.

Defn: Same as Souchong.

SOODRA
Soo"dra.

Defn: Same as Sudra.

SOOFEE; SOOFEEISM
Soo"fee, Soo"fee*ism.

Defn: Same as Sufi, Sufism.

SOOJEE
Soo"jee, n.

Defn: Same as Suji.

SOON
Soon, adv. Etym: [OE. sone, AS. s; cf. OFries. s, OS. sana, sano,
OHG. sar, Goth. suns.]

1. In a short time; shortly after any time specified or supposed; as,
soon after sunrise. "Sooner said than done." Old Proverb. "As soon as
it might be." Chaucer.
She finished, and the subtle fiend his lore Soon learned. Milton.

2. Without the usual delay; before any time supposed; early.
How is it that ye are come so soon to-day Ex. ii. 18.

3. Promptly; quickly; easily.
Small lights are soon blown out, huge fires abide. Shak.

4. Readily; willingly; -- in this sense used with would, or some
other word expressing will.
I would as soon see a river winding through woods or in meadows, as
when it is tossed up in so many whimsical figures at Versailles.
Addison.
As soon as, or So soon as, imediately at or after another event. "As
soon as he came nigh unto the camp . . . he saw the calf, and the
dancing." Ex. xxxii. 19. See So . . . as, under So.
 -- Soon at, as soon as; or, as soon as the time referred to arrives.
[Obs.] "I shall be sent for soon at night." Shak.
 -- Sooner or later, at some uncertain time in the future; as, he
will discover his mistake sooner or later.
 -- With the soonest, as soon as any; among the earliest; too soon.
[Obs.] Holland.

SOON
Soon, a.

Defn: Speedy; quick. [Obs.] Shak.

SOONEE
Soo"nee, n.

Defn: See Sunnite.

SOONER
Soon"er, n.

Defn: In the western United States, one who settles on government
land before it is legally open to settlement in order to gain the
prior claim that the law gives to the first settler when the land is
opened to settlement; hence, any one who does a thing prematurely or
anticipates another in acting in order to gain an unfair advantage.

SOONER STATE
Sooner State.

Defn: Oklahoma; -- a nickname.

SOONLY
Soon"ly, adv.

Defn: Soon. [Obs.] Dr. H. More.

SOORD
Soord, n.

Defn: Skin of bacon. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SOORMA
Soor"ma, n. Etym: [Hind. & Per. surma.]

Defn: A preparation of antimony with which Mohammedan men anoint
their eyelids.

SOOSHONG
Soo*shong", n.

Defn: See Souchong.

SOOSOO
Soo"soo, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A kind of dolphin (Platanista Gangeticus) native of the river
Ganges; the Gangetic dolphin. It has a long, slender, somewhat
spatulate beak. [Written also susu.]

SOOT
Soot ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [OE. sot, AS. s; akin to Icel. s, Sw. sot,
Dan. sod, OD. soet, Lith. s; cf. Gael. suith, Ir. suth.]

Defn: A black substance formed by combustion, or disengaged from fuel
in the process of combustion, which rises in fine particles, and
adheres to the sides of the chimney or pipe conveying the smoke;
strictly, the fine powder, consisting chiefly of carbon, which colors
smoke, and which is the result of imperfect combustion. See Smoke.

SOOT
Soot, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sooted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sooting.]

Defn: To cover or dress with soot; to smut with, or as with, soot;
as, to soot land. Mortimer.

SOOT; SOOTE
Soot, Soot"e, a. Etym: [See Sweet.]

Defn: Sweet. [Obs.] "The soote savour of the vine." Chaucer.

SOOTERKIN
Soot"er*kin, n. Etym: [Cf. Prov. G. suttern to boil gently.]

Defn: A kind of false birth, fabled to be produced by Dutch women
from sitting over their stoves; also, an abortion, in a figurative
sense; an abortive scheme.
Fruits of dull heat, and sooterkins of wit. Pope.

SOOTH
Sooth, a.; also adv. [Compar. Soother; superl. Soothest.] Etym: [OE.
soth, AS. s, for san; akin to OS. s, OHG. sand, Icel. sannr, Sw.
sann, Dan. sand, Skr. sat, sant, real, genuine, present, being;
properly p. pr. from a root meaning, to be, Skr. as, L. esse; also
akin to Goth. sunjis true, Gr. satya. Absent, Am, Essence, Is,
Soothe, Sutee.]

1. True; faithful; trustworthy. [Obs. or Scot.]
The sentence [meaning] of it sooth is, out of doubt. Chaucer.
That shall I sooth (said he) to you declare. Spensser.

2. Pleasing; delightful; sweet. [R.]
The soothest shepherd that ever piped on plains. Milton.
With jellies soother than the creamy curd. Keats.

SOOTH
Sooth, n. Etym: [AS. s. See Sooth, a.]

1. Truth; reality. [Archaic]
The sooth it this, the cut fell to the knight. Chaucer.
In sooth, I know not why I am so sad. Shak.
In good sooth, Its mystery is love, its meaninng youth. Longfellow.

2. Augury; prognostication. [Obs.]
The soothe of birds by beating of their wings. Spenser.

3. Blandishment; cajolery. [Obs.] Shak.

SOOTHE
Soothe, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Soothed; p. pr. & vb. n. Soothing.] Etym:
[Originally, to assent to as true; OE. so to verify, AS. ges to prove
the truth of, to bear witness. See Sooth, a.]

1. To assent to as true. [Obs.] Testament of Love.

2. To assent to; to comply with; to gratify; to humor by compliance;
to please with blandishments or soft words; to flatter.
Good, my lord, soothe him, let him take the fellow. Shak.
I've tried the force of every reason on him, Soothed and caressed,
been angry, soothed again. Addison.

3. To assuage; to mollify; to calm; to comfort; as, to soothe a
crying child; to soothe one's sorrows.
Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast, To soften rocks, or
bend a knotted oak. Congreve.
Though the sound of Fame May for a moment soothe, it can not slake
The fever of vain longing. Byron.

Syn.
 -- To soften; assuage; allay; compose; mollify; tranquilize; pacify;
mitigate.

SOOTHER
Sooth"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, soothes.

SOOTHFAST
Sooth"fast`, a. Etym: [Sooth + fast, that is, fast or firm with
respect to truth.]

Defn: Firmly fixed in, or founded upon, the thruth; true; genuine;
real; also, truthful; faithful. [Archaic] -- Sooth"fast`ness, n.
[Archaic] "In very soothfastness." Chaucer.
Why do not you . . . bear leal and soothfast evidence in her behalf,
as ye may with a clear conscience! Sir W. Scott.

SOOTHFAST
Sooth"fast`, adv.

Defn: Soothly; really; in fact. [Archaic]
I care not if the pomps you show Be what they soothfast appear.
Emerson.

SOOTHING
Sooth"ing, a. & n.

Defn: from Soothe, v.

SOOTHINGLY
Sooth"ing*ly, adv.

Defn: In a soothing manner.

SOOTHLY
Sooth"ly, adv.

Defn: In truth; truly; really; verily. [Obs.] "Soothly for to say."
Chaucer.

SOOTHNESS
Sooth"ness, n.

Defn: Truth; reality. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOOTHSAY
Sooth"say`, v. i. Etym: [Sooth + say; properly to say truth, tell the
truth.]

Defn: To foretell; to predict. "You can not soothsay." Shak. "Old
soothsaying Glaucus' spell." Milton.

SOOTHSAY
Sooth"say`, n.

1. A true saying; a proverb; a prophecy. [Obs.] Spenser.

2. Omen; portent. Having
God turn the same to good soothsay. Spenser.

SOOTHSAYER
Sooth"say`er, n.

1. One who foretells events by the art of soothsaying; a
prognosticator.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A mantis.

SOOTHSAYING
Sooth"say`ing, n.

1. A true saying; truth. [Obs.]

2. The act of one who soothsays; the foretelling of events; the art
or practice of making predictions.
A damsel, possessed with a spirit of divination . . . which brought
her masters much gain by soothsaying. Acts xvi. 16.

3. A prediction; a prophecy; a prognostication.
Divinations and soothsayings and dreams are vain. Eclus. xxxiv. 5.

SOOTINESS
Soot"i*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sooty; fuliginousness. Johnson.

SOOTISH
Soot"ish, a.

Defn: Sooty. Sir T. Browne.

SOOTY
Soot"y, a. [Compar Sootier; superl. Sootiest.] Etym: [AS. s. See
Soot.]

1. Of or pertaining to soot; producing soot; soiled by soot. "Fire of
sooty coal." Milton.

2. Having a dark brown or black color like soot; fuliginous; dusky;
dark. "The grisly legions that troop under the sooty flag of
Acheron." Milton. Sooty albatross (Zool.), an albatross (Phoebetria
fuliginosa) found chiefly in the Pacific Ocean; -- called also
nellie.
 -- Sooty tern (Zool.), a tern (Sterna fuliginosa) found chiefly in
tropical seas.

SOOTY
Soot"y, v. t.

Defn: To black or foul with soot. [R.]
Sootied with noisome smoke. Chapman.

SOP
Sop, n. Etym: [OE. sop, soppe; akin to AS. s to sup, to sip, to
drink, D. sop sop, G. suppe soup, Icel. soppa sop. See Sup, v. t.,
and cf. Soup.]

1. Anything steeped, or dipped and softened, in any liquid;
especially, something dipped in broth or liquid food, and intended to
be eaten.
He it is to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it. John
xiii. 26.
Sops in wine, quantity, inebriate more than wine itself. Bacon.
The bounded waters Should lift their bosoms higher than the shores,
And make a sop of all this solid globe. Shak.

2. Anything given to pacify; -- so called from the sop given to
Cerberus, as related in mythology.
All nature is cured with a sop. L'Estrange.

3. A thing of little or no value. [Obs.] P. Plowman. Sops in wine
(Bot.), an old name of the clove pink, alluding to its having been
used to flavor wine.
Garlands of roses and sops in wine. Spenser.
-- Sops of wine (Bot.), an old European variety of apple, of a yellow
and red color, shading to deep red; -- called also sopsavine, and red
shropsavine.

SOP
Sop, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sopped; p. pr. & vb. n. Sopping.]

Defn: To steep or dip in any liquid.

SOPE
Sope, n.

Defn: See Soap. [Obs.]

SOPH
Soph, n. (Eng. Univ.)

Defn: A contraction of Soph ister. [Colloq.]

SOPH
Soph, n. (Amer. Colleges)

Defn: A contraction of Sophomore. [Colloq.]

SOPHI
So"phi, n.; pl. Sophis (.

Defn: See Sufi.

SOPHIC; SOPHICAL
Soph"ic, Soph"ic*al, a. Etym: [Gr.

Defn: Teaching wisdom. [Obs.] S. Harris.

SOPHIME
So*phime" ( or ), n. Etym: [OF. soffime, sophisme.]

Defn: Sophism. [Obs.]
I trow ye study aboute some sophime. Chaucer.

SOPHISM
Soph"ism, n. Etym: [F. sophisme, L. sophisma, fr. Gr.

Defn: The doctrine or mode of reasoning practiced by a sophist;
hence, any fallacy designed to deceive.
When a false argument puts on the appearance of a true one, then it
is properly called a sophism, or "fallacy". I. Watts.
Let us first rid ourselves of sophisms, those of depraved men, and
those of heartless philosophers. I. Taylor.

SOPHIST
Soph"ist, n. Etym: [F. sophiste, L. sophistes, fr. Gr. Sophism.]

1. One of a class of men who taught eloquence, philosophy, and
politics in ancient Greece; especially, one of those who, by their
fallacious but plausible reasoning, puzzled inquirers after truth,
weakened the faith of the people, and drew upon themselves general
hatred and contempt.
Many of the Sophists doubdtless card not for truth or morality, and
merely professed to teach how to make the worse appear the better
reason; but there scems no reason to hold that they were a special
class, teaching special opinions; even Socrates and Plato were
sometimes styled Sophists. Liddell & Scott.

2. Hence, an impostor in argument; a captious or fallacious reasoner.

SOPHISTER
Soph"ist*er, n.

1. A sophist. See Sophist. [Obs.] Hooker.

2. (Eng. Univ.)

Defn: A student who is advanced beyond the first year of his
residence.

Note: The entire course at the university consists of three years and
one term, during which the students have the titles of first-year
men, or freshmen; second-year men or junior sophs or sophisters;
third-year men, or senior sophs or sophisters; and, in the last term,
questionists, with reference to the approaching examination. In the
older American colleges, the junior and senior classes were
originally called, and in some of them are still called, junior
sophisters and senior sophisters.

SOPHISTER
Soph"ist*er, v. t.

Defn: To maintain by sophistry, or by a fallacious argument. [Obs.]
obham.

SOPHISTIC; SOPHISTICAL
So*phis"tic, So*phis"tic*al, a. Etym: [L. sophisticus, Gr.
sophistique.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sophist; embodying sophistry;
fallaciously subtile; not sound.
His argument . . . is altogether sophistical. Macaulay.
-- So*phis"tic*al*ly, adv.
 -- So*phis"tic*al*ness, n.

SOPHISTICATE
So*phis"ti*cate, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sophisticated; p. pr. & vb. n.
Sophisticating.] Etym: [LL. sophisticatus, p.p. of sophisticare to
sophisticate.]

Defn: To render worthless by admixture; to adulterate; to damage; to
pervert; as, to sophisticate wine. Howell.
To sophisticate the understanding. Southey.
Yet Butler professes to stick to plain facts, not to sophisticate,
not to refine. M. Arnold.
They purchase but sophisticated ware. Dryden.

Syn.
 -- To adulterate; debase; corrupt; vitiate.

SOPHISTICATE; SOPHISTICATED
So*phis"ti*cate, So*phis"ti*ca`ted, a.

Defn: Adulterated; not pure; not genuine.
So truth, while only one supplied the state, Grew scare and dear, and
yet sophisticate. Dryden.

SOPHISTICATION
So*phis`ti*ca"tion, n. Etym: [Cf. LL. sophisticatio, F.
sophistication.]

Defn: The act of sophisticating; adulteration; as, the sophistication
of drugs. Boyle.

SOPHISTICATOR
So*phis"ti*ca`tor, n.

Defn: One who sophisticates.

SOPHISTRY
Soph"ist*ry, n. Etym: [OE. sophistrie, OF. sophisterie.]

1. The art or process of reasoning; logic. [Obs.]

2. The practice of a sophist; fallacious reasoning; reasoning sound
in appearance only.
The juggle of sophistry consists, for the most part, in usig a word
in one sense in the premise, and in another sense in the conclusion.
Coleridge.

Syn.
 -- See Fallacy.

SOPHOMORE
Soph"o*more, n. Etym: [Probably fr. soph or sophister + Gr. Soph-Mor
as "the next distinctive appellation to Freshman," but the term has
now almost ceased to be known at the English university from whence
it came.]

Defn: One belonging to the second of the four classes in an American
college, or one next above a freshman. [Formerly written also
sophimore.]

SOPHOMORIC; SOPHOMORICAL
Soph`o*mor"ic, Soph`o*mor"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sophomore; resembling a sophomore; hence,
pretentious; inflated in style or manner; as, sophomoric affectation.
[U. S.]

SOPHORA
So*pho"ra, n. Etym: [Ar. .] (Bot.)
(a) A genus of leguminous plants.
(b) A tree (Sophora Japonica) of Eastern Asia, resembling the common
locust; occasionally planted in the United States.

SOPHTA
Soph"ta, n.

Defn: See Softa.

SOPITE
So"pite, v. t. Etym: [L. sopitus, p.p. of sopire to put to sleep;
akin to sopor a sleeping draught, a heavy sleep.]

Defn: To lay asleep; to put to sleep; to quiet. [Obs.]
The king's declaration for the sopiting of all Arminian heresies.
Fuller.

SOPITION
So*pi"tion, n.

Defn: The act of putting to sleep, or the state of being put to
sleep; sleep. [Obs.]
Dementation and sopition of reason. Sir T. Browne.

SOPOR
So"por, n. Etym: [L.] (Med.)

Defn: Profound sleep from which a person can be roused only with
difficulty.

SOPORATE
Sop"o*rate, v. t. Etym: [L. soporatus, p.p. or soporare to put to
sleep, fr. sopor a heavy sleep.]

Defn: To lay or put to sleep; to stupefy. [Obs.] Cudworth.

SOPORIFEROUS
Sop`o*rif"er*ous, a. Etym: [L. soparifer; sopor a heavy sleep +
ferere to bring.]

Defn: Causing sleep; somniferous; soporific. "Soporiferous medicine."
Swift. --- Sop`o*rif"er*ous*ly, adv.
 -- Sop`o*rif"er*ous*ness, n.

SOPORIFIC
Sop`o*rif"ic, a. Etym: [L. sopor a heavy sleep (akin to somnus sleep)
+ facere to make. See Somnolent, Fact.]

Defn: Causing sleep; tending to cause sleep; soporiferous; as, the
soporific virtues of opium.

Syn.
 -- Somniferous; narcotic; opiate; anodyne.

SOPORIFIC
Sop`o*rif"ic, n.

Defn: A medicine, drug, plant, or other agent that has the quality of
inducing sleep; a narcotic.

SOPOROSE; SOPOROUS
Sop"o*rose`, Sop"o*rous, a. Etym: [From Sopor; cf. L. soporus, fr.
sopor a heavy sleep; F. soporeux.]

Defn: Causing sleep; sleepy.

SOPPER
Sop"per, n.

Defn: One who sops. Johnson.

SOPPING
sopping

Defn: more recent version of soppy. Used esp. in phrase sopping wet.

SOPPY
Sop"py, a.

Defn: Soaked or saturated with liquid or moisture; very wet or
sloppy.
It [Yarmouth] looked rather spongy and soppy. Dickens.

SOPRA
So"pra, adv. Etym: [It., from L. supra above.] (Mus.)

Defn: Above; before; over; upon.

SOPRANIST
So*pra"nist, n. (Mus.)

Defn: A treble singer.

SOPRANO
So*pra"no, n.; pl. E. Sopranos, It. Soprani. Etym: [It., fr. soprano
superior, highest, fr. sopra above, L. supra. See Sovereign.] (Mus.)
(a) The treble; the highest vocal register; the highest kind of
female or boy's voice; the upper part in harmony for mixed voices.
(b) A singer, commonly a woman, with a treble voice.

SOPSAVINE
Sops"a*vine, n.

Defn: See Sops of wine, under Sop.

SORA
So"ra, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A North American rail (Porzana Carolina) common in the Eastern
United States. Its back is golden brown, varied with black and white,
the front of the head and throat black, the breast and sides of the
head and neck slate-colored. Called also American rail, Carolina
rail, Carolina crake, common rail, sora rail, soree, meadow chicken,
and orto. King sora, the Florida gallinule.

SORANCE
Sor"ance ( or ), n.

Defn: Soreness. [Obs.]

SORB
Sorb, n.Etym: [L. sorbus the tree, sorbum the fruit; cf. F. sorbe.
See Service tree.] (Bot.)
(a) The wild service tree (Pyrus torminalis) of Europe; also, the
rowan tree.
(b) The fruit of these trees. Sorb apple, the fruit of the sorb, or
wild service tree.
 -- Sorb tree, the wild service tree.

SORBATE
Sor"bate, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sorbate. See Sorbic.] (Chem.)

Defn: A salt of sorbic acid.

SORBEFACIENT
Sor`be*fa"cient, a. Etym: [L. sorbere to suck in, absorb + faciens,
p.pr. of facere to make.] (Med.)

Defn: Producing absorption.
 -- n.

Defn: A medicine or substance which produces absorption.

SORBENT
Sorb"ent, n. Etym: [L. sorbens, p.pr. of sorbere to suck in, to
absorb.]

Defn: An absorbent. [R.]

SORBET
Sor"bet, n. Etym: [F. sorbet or It. sorbetto or Sp. sorbete, from the
same source as E. sherbet. See Sherbet.]

Defn: A kind of beverage; sherbet. Smolett.

SORBIC
Sor"bic, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sorbique. See Sorb.] (Chem.)

Defn: Pertaining to, or obtained from, the rowan tree, or sorb;
specifically, designating an acid, C

SORBILE
Sor"bile, a. Etym: [L. sorbilis, fr. sorbere to suck in, to drink
down.]

Defn: Fit to be drunk or sipped. [Obs.]

SORBIN
Sor"bin, n. (Chem.)

Defn: An unfermentable sugar, isomeric with glucose, found in the
ripe berries of the rowan tree, or sorb, and extracted as a sweet
white crystalline substance; -- called also mountain-ash sugar.

SORBITE
Sor"bite, n. Etym: [L. sorbus service tree.] (Chem.)

Defn: A sugarlike substance, isomeric with mannite and dulcite, found
with sorbin in the ripe berries of the sorb, and extracted as a sirup
or a white crystalline substance.
 -- Sor*bit"ic, a.

SORBITION
Sor*bi"tion, n. Etym: [L. sorbitio.]

Defn: The act of drinking or sipping. [Obs.]

SORBONICAL
Sor*bon"ic*al, a.

Defn: Belonging to the Sorbonne or to a Sorbonist. Bale.

SORBONIST
Sor"bon*ist, n. Etym: [F. sorboniste.]

Defn: A doctor of the Sorbonne, or theological college, in the
University of Paris, founded by Robert de Sorbon, a. d. 1252. It was
suppressed in the Revolution of 1789.

SORCERER
Sor"cer*er, n. Etym: [Cf. F. sorcier. See Sorcery.]

Defn: A conjurer; an enchanter; a magician. Bacon.
Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers. Ex. vii. 11.

SORCERESS
Sor"cer*ess, n.

Defn: A female sorcerer.

SORCERING
Sor"cer*ing, n.

Defn: Act or practice of using sorcery.

SORCEROUS
Sor"cer*ous, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to sorcery.

SORCERY
Sor"cer*y, n.; pl. Sorceries. Etym: [OE. sorcerie, OF. sorcerie, fr.
OF. & F. sorcier a sorcerer, LL. sortiarius, fr. L. sors, sortis, a
lot, decision by lot, fate, destiny. See Sort, n.]

Defn: Divination by the assistance, or supposed assistance, of evil
spirits, or the power of commanding evil spirits; magic; necromancy;
witchcraft; enchantment.
Adder's wisdom I have learned, To fence my ear against thy sorceries.
Milton.

SORD
Sord ( or ), n.

Defn: See Sward. [R.] Milton.

SORDES
Sor"des, n. Etym: [L., fr. sordere to be dirty or foul.]

Defn: Foul matter; excretion; dregs; filthy, useless, or rejected
matter of any kind; specifically (Med.), the foul matter that
collects on the teeth and tongue in low fevers and other conditions
attended with great vital depression.

SORDET
Sor"det, n. Etym: [See Sordine.] (Mus.)

Defn: A sordine.

SORDID
Sor"did, a. Etym: [L. sordidus, fr. sordere to be filthy or dirty;
probably akin to E. swart: cf. F. sordide. See Swart, a.]

1. Filthy; foul; dirty. [Obs.]
A sordid god; down from his hoary chin A length of beard descends,
uncombed, unclean. Dryden.

2. Vile; base; gross; mean; as, vulgar, sordid mortals. "To scorn the
sordid world." Milton.

3. Meanly avaricious; covetous; niggardly.
He may be old, And yet sordid, who refuses gold. Sir J. Denham.

SORDIDLY
Sor*did"ly, n.

Defn: Sordidness. [Obs.]

SORDIDLY
Sor"did*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sordid manner.

SORDIDNESS
Sor"did*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sordid.

SORDINE
Sor"dine ( or ; 277), n. Etym: [It. sordina, sordino, from sordo
deaf, dull-sounding, L. surdus. See Surd.] (Mus.)

Defn: See Damper, and 5th Mute.

SORE
Sore, a. Etym: [F. saure, sore, sor; faucon sor a sore falcon. See
Sorrel, n.]

Defn: Reddish brown; sorrel. [R.] Sore falcon. (Zool.) See Sore, n.,
1.

SORE
Sore, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A young hawk or falcon in the first year.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A young buck in the fourth year. See the Note under Buck.

SORE
Sore, a. [Compar. Sorer (; superl. Sorest.] Etym: [OE. sor, sar, AS.
sar; akin to D. zeer, OS. & OHG. s, G. sehr very, Icel. sarr, Sw.
sar, Goth. sair pain. Cf. Sorry.]

1. Tender to the touch; susceptible of pain from pressure; inflamed;
painful; -- said of the body or its parts; as, a sore hand.

2. Fig.: Sensitive; tender; easily pained, grieved, or vexed; very
susceptible of irritation.
Malice and hatred are very fretting and vexatious, and apt to make
our minds sore and uneasy. Tillotson.

3. Severe; afflictive; distressing; as, a sore disease; sore evil or
calamity. Shak.

4. Criminal; wrong; evil. [Obs.] Shak. Sore throat (Med.),
inflammation of the throat and tonsils; pharyngitis. See Cynanche.
 -- Malignant, Ulcerated or Putrid, sore throat. See Angina, and
under Putrid.

SORE
Sore, n. Etym: [OE. sor, sar, AS. sar. See Sore, a.]

1. A place in an animal body where the skin and flesh are ruptured or
bruised, so as to be tender or painful; a painful or diseased place,
such as an ulcer or a boil.
The dogs came and licked his sores. Luke xvi. 21.

2. Fig.: Grief; affliction; trouble; difficulty. Chaucer.
I see plainly where his sore lies. Sir W. Scott.
Gold sore. (Med.) See under Gold, n.

SORE
Sore, adv. Etym: [AS. sare. See Sore, a.]

1. In a sore manner; with pain; grievously.
Thy hand presseth me sore. Ps. xxxviii. 2.

2. Greatly; violently; deeply.
[Hannah] prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. 1 Sam. i. 10.
Sore sighed the knight, who this long sermon heard. Dryden.

SOREDIA
So*re"di*a, n.,

Defn: pl. of Soredium.

SOREDIATE
So*re"di*ate, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Sorediiferous.

SOREDIFEROUS; SOREDIIFEROUS
Sore*dif"er*ous, or Sore*di*if"er*ous, a. Etym: [Soredium + -ferous.]
(Bot.)

Defn: Bearing soredia; sorediate.

SOREDIUM
So*re"di*um, n.; pl. Soredia. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A patch of granular bodies on the surface of the thallus of
lichens.

SOREE
So"ree (, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Same as Sora.

SOREHEAD
Sore"head`, n.

Defn: One who is disgruntled by a failure in politics, or the like.
[Slang, U.S.]

SOREHON
Sore"hon, n. Etym: [Corrupted from sojourn, Scot. soirne, sorn.]

Defn: Formerly, in Ireland, a kind of servile tenure which subjected
the tenant to maintain his chieftain gratuitously whenever he wished
to indulge in a revel. Spenser.

SOREL
Sor"el, n. Etym: [A diminutive. See Sore reddish brown.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A young buck in the third year. See the Note under Buck. Shak.

2. A yellowish or reddish brown color; sorrel.

SORELY
Sore"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sore manner; grievously; painfully; as, to be sorely
afflicted.

SOREMA
So*re"ma, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A heap of carpels belonging to one flower.

SORENESS
Sore"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sore; tenderness; painfull; as,
the soreness of a wound; the soreness of an affliction.

SOREX
So"rex, n. Etym: [L., a shrew.] (Zool.)

Defn: A genus of small Insectivora, including the common shrews.

SORGHE
Sor"ghe, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The three-beared rocking, or whistlefish. [Prov. Eng.]

SORGHUM
Sor"ghum, n. Etym: [NL., probably of Chinese origin.] (Bot.)
(a) A genus of grasses, properly limited to two species, Sorghum
Halepense, the Arabian millet, or Johnson grass (see Johnson grass),
and S. vulgare, the Indian millet (see Indian millet, under Indian).
(b) A variety of Sorghum vulgare, grown for its saccharine juice; the
Chinese sugar cane.

SORGO
Sor"go, n. Etym: [Cf. It. sorgo. See Sorghum.] (Bot.)

Defn: Indian millet and its varieties. See Sorghum.

SORI
So"ri, n.,

Defn: pl. of Sorus.

SORICINE
So"ri*cine, a. Etym: [L. sorricinus, fr. sorex a shrew.] (Zool.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to the Shrew family (Soricid?); like a shrew
in form or habits; as, the soricine bat (Glossophaga soricina).

SORITES
So*ri"tes, n. Etym: [L., from Gr. swrei`ths (sc. syllogismo`s),
properly, heaped up (hence, a heap of syllogisms), fr. swro`s a
heap.] (Logic)

Defn: An abridged form of stating of syllogisms in a series of
propositions so arranged that the predicate of each one that precedes
forms the subject of each one that follows, and the conclusion unites
the subject of the first proposition with the predicate of the last
proposition, as in following example; --
The soul is a thinking agent; A thinking agent can not be severed
into parts; That which can not be severed can not be destroyed;
Therefore the soul can not be destroyed.

Note: When the series is arranged in the reverse order, it is called
the Goclenian sorites, from Goclenius, a philosopher of the sixteenth
century. Destructive sorities. See under Destructive.

SORITICAL
So"rit"ic*al, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a sorites; resembling a sorites.

SORN
Sorn, v. i. Etym: [See Sorehon.]

Defn: To obtrude one's self on another for bed and board. [Scot.] Sir
W. Scott.

SORNER
Sorn"er, n.

Defn: One who obtrudes himself on another for bed and board. [Scot.]
De Quncey.

SORORAL
So*ro"ral, a. Etym: [L. soror sister: cf. F. sororal.]

Defn: Relating to a sister; sisterly. [R.]

SORORICIDE
So*ror"i*cide, n. Etym: [L. sororocida, and sororicidium; soror a
sister + caedere to kill.]

Defn: The murder of one's sister; also, one who murders or kills
one's own sister. Johnson.

SORORIZE
So*ro"rize ( or ), v. i. Etym: [L. soror, sororis, a sister.]

Defn: To associate, or hold fellowship, as sisters; to have sisterly
feelings; -- analogous to fraternize. [Recent & R.]

SOROSIS
So*ro"sis, n. Etym: [NL. See Sororize.]

Defn: A woman's club; an association of women. [U. S.]

SOROSIS
So*ro"sis, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: A fleshy fruit formed by the consolidation of many flowers with
their receptacles, ovaries, etc., as the breadfruit, mulberry, and
pineapple.

SORRAGE
Sor"rage (; 48), n. Etym: [Cf. Sorrel, n.]

Defn: The blades of green or barley. [Obs.] Bailey.

SORRANCE
Sor"rance, n.

Defn: Same as Sorance. [Obs.]

SORREL
Sor"rel, a. Etym: [F. saur, saure, OF. sor, sore, probably of
Teutonic origin; cf. D. zoor dry, LG. soor; the meaning probably
coming from the color of dry leaves. See Sear, a., and cf. Sorel.]

Defn: Of a yellowish or redish brown color; as, a sorrel horse.

SORREL
Sor"rel, n.

Defn: A yellowish or redish brown color.

SORREL
Sor"rel, n. Etym: [F. surelle, fr. sur sour, fr. OHG. s sour. See
Sour.] (Bot.)

Defn: One of various plants having a sour juice; especially, a plant
of the genus Rumex, as Rumex Acetosa, Rumex Acetosella, etc. Mountain
sorrel. (Bot.) See under Mountain.
 -- Red sorrel. (Bot.) (a) A malvaceous plant (Hibiscus Sabdariffa)
whose acid calyxes and capsules are used in the West Indies for
making tarts and acid drinks. (b) A troublesome weed (Rumex
Acetosella), also called sheep sorrel.
 -- Salt of sorrel (Chem.), binoxalate of potassa; -- so called
because obtained from the juice of Rumex Acetosella, or Rumex
Axetosa.
 -- Sorrel tree (Bot.), a small ericaceous tree (Oxydendrum arboreum)
whose leaves resemble those of the peach and have a sour taste. It is
common along the Alleghanies. Called also sourwood.
 -- Wood sorrel (Bot.), any plant of the genus Oxalis.

SORRENTO WORK
Sor"ren"to work`.

Defn: Ornamental work, mostly carved in olivewood, decorated with
inlay, made at or near Sorrento, Italy. Hence, more rarely, jig-saw
work and the like done anywhere.

SORRILY
Sor"ri*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sorry manner; poorly.
Thy pipe, O Pan, shall help, though I sing sorrily. Sir P. Sidney.

SORRINESS
Sor"ri*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sorry.

SORROW
Sor"row, n. Etym: [OE. sorwe, sorewe, sor, AS. sorg, sorh; akin to D.
zorg care, anxiety, OS. sorga, OHG. sorga, soraga, suorga, G. sorge,
Icel., Sw., & Dan. sorg, Goth. saurga; of unknown origin.]

Defn: The uneasiness or pain of mind which is produced by the loss of
any good, real or supposed, or by diseappointment in the expectation
of good; grief at having suffered or occasioned evil; regret;
unhappiness; sadness. Milton.
How great a sorrow suffereth now Arcite! Chaucer.
The safe and general antidote against sorrow is employment. Rambler.

Syn.
 -- Grief; unhappiness; regret; sadness; heaviness; mourning;
affliction. See Affliction, and Grief.

SORROW
Sor"row, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sorrowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sorrowing.]
Etym: [OE. sorowen, sorwen, sorhen, AS. sorgian; akin to Goth.
saurgan. See Sorrow, n.]

Defn: To feel pain of mind in consequence of evil experienced,
feared, or done; to grieve; to be sad; to be sorry.
Sorrowing most of all . . . that they should see his face no more.
Acts xx. 38.
I desire no man to sorrow for me. Sir J. Hayward.

SORROWED
Sor"rowed (, a.

Defn: Accompanied with sorrow; sorrowful. [Obs.] Shak.

SORROWFUL
Sor"row*ful, a. Etym: [OE. sorweful, AS. sorgful.]

1. Full of sorrow; exhibiting sorrow; sad; dejected; distressed.
"This sorrowful prisoner." Chaucer.
My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death. Matt. xxvi. 38.

2. Producing sorrow; exciting grief; mournful; lamentable; grievous;
as, a sorrowful accident.

Syn.
 -- Sad; mournful; dismal; disconsolate; drear; dreary; grievous;
lamentable; doleful; distressing.
 -- Sor"row*ful*ly, adv.
 -- Sor"row*ful*ness, n.

SORROWLESS
Sor"row*less, a.

Defn: Free from sorrow.

SORRY
Sor"ry, a. [Compar. Sorrier; superl. Sorriest.] Etym: [OE. sory,
sary, AS. sarig, fr. sar, n., sore. See Sore, n. & a. The original
sense was, painful; hence. miserable, sad.]

1. Grieved for the loss of some good; pained for some evil; feeling
regret; -- now generally used to express light grief or affliction,
but formerly often used to express deeper feeling. "I am sorry for my
sins." Piers Plowman.
Ye were made sorry after a godly manner. 2 Cor. vii. 9.
I am sorry for thee, friend; 't is the duke's pleasure. Shak.
She entered, were he lief or sorry. Spenser.

2. Melancholy; dismal; gloomy; mournful. Spenser.
All full of chirking was this sorry place. Chaucer.

3. Poor; mean; worthless; as, a sorry excuse. "With sorry grace."
Chaucer.
Cheeks of sorry grain will serve. Milton.
Good fruit will sometimes grow on a sorry tree. Sir W. Scott.

Syn.
 -- Hurt; afflicted; mortified; vexed; chagrined; melancholy; dismal;
poor; mean; pitiful.

SORS
Sors, n.; pl. Sortes. Etym: [L.]

Defn: A lot; also, a kind of divination by means of lots. Sortes
Homeric? or Virgilian? Etym: [L., Homeric or Virgilian lots], a form
of divination anciently practiced, which consisted in taking the
first passage on which the eye fell, upon opening a volume of Homer
or Virgil, or a passage drawn from an urn which several were
deposited, as indicating future events, or the proper course to be
pursued. In later times the Bible was used for the same purpose by
Christians.

SORT
Sort, n. Etym: [F. sorl, L. sors, sortis. See Sort kind.]

Defn: Chance; lot; destiny. [Obs.]
By aventure, or sort, or cas [chance]. Chaucer.
Let blockish Ajax draw The sort to fight with Hector. Shak.

SORT
Sort, n. Etym: [F. sorie (cf. It. sorta, sorte), from L. sors, sorti,
a lot, part, probably akin to serere to connect. See Series, and cf.
Assort, Consort, Resort, Sorcery, Sort lot.]

1. A kind or species; any number or collection of individual persons
or things characterized by the same or like qualities; a class or
order; as, a sort of men; a sort of horses; a sort of trees; a sort
of poems.

2. Manner; form of being or acting.
Which for my part I covet to perform, In sort as through the world I
did proclaim. Spenser.
Flowers, in such sort worn, can neither be smelt nor seen well by
those that wear them. Hooker.
I'll deceive you in another sort. Shak.
To Adam in what sort Shall I appear Milton.
I shall not be wholly without praise, if in some sort I have copied
his style. Dryden.

3. Condition above the vulgar; rank. [Obs.] Shak.

4. A chance group; a company of persons who happen to be together; a
troop; also, an assemblage of animals. [Obs.] "A sort of shepherds."
Spenser. "A sort of steers." Spenser. "A sort of doves." Dryden. "A
sort of rogues." Massinger.
A boy, a child, and we a sort of us, Vowed against his voyage.
Chapman.

5. A pair; a set; a suit. Johnson.

6. pl. (Print.)

Defn: Letters, figures, points, marks, spaces, or quadrats, belonging
to a case, separately considered. Out of sorts (Print.), with some
letters or sorts of type deficient or exhausted in the case or font;
hence, colloquially, out of order; ill; vexed; disturbed.
 -- To run upon sorts (Print.), to use or require a greater number of
some particular letters, figures, or marks than the regular
proportion, as, for example, in making an index.

Syn.
 -- Kind; species; rank; condition.
 -- Sort, Kind. Kind originally denoted things of the same family, or
bound together by some natural affinity; and hence, a class. Sort
signifies that which constitutes a particular lot of parcel, not
implying necessarily the idea of affinity, but of mere assemblage.
the two words are now used to a great extent interchangeably, though
sort (perhaps from its original meaning of lot) sometimes carries
with it a slight tone of disparagement or contempt, as when we say,
that sort of people, that sort of language.
As when the total kind Of birds, in orderly array on wing, Came
summoned over Eden to receive Their names of there. Milton.
None of noble sort Would so offend a virgin. Shak.

SORT
Sort, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sorted; p. pr. & vb. n. Sorting.]

1. To separate, and place in distinct classes or divisions, as things
having different qualities; as, to sort cloths according to their
colors; to sort wool or thread according to its fineness.
Rays which differ in refrangibility may be parted and sorted from one
another. Sir I. Newton.

2. To reduce to order from a confused state. Hooker.

3. To conjoin; to put together in distribution; to class.
Shellfish have been, by some of the ancients, compared and sorted
with insects. Bacon.
She sorts things present with things past. Sir J. Davies.

4. To choose from a number; to select; to cull.
That he may sort out a worthy spouse. Chapman.
I'll sort some other time to visit you. Shak.

5. To conform; to adapt; to accommodate. [R.]
I pray thee, sort thy heart to patience. Shak.

SORT
Sort, v. i.

1. To join or associate with others, esp. with others of the same
kind or species; to agree.
Nor do metals only sort and herd with metals in the earth, and
minerals with minerals. Woodward.
The illiberality of parents towards children makes them base, and
sort with any company. Bacon.

2. To suit; to fit; to be in accord; to harmonize.
They are happy whose natures sort with their vocations. Bacon.
Things sort not to my will. herbert.
I can not tell you precisely how they sorted. Sir W. Scott.

SORTABLE
Sort"a*ble, a. Etym: [Cf. F. sortable suitable.]

1. Capable of being sorted.

2. Suitable; befitting; proper. [Obs.] con.

SORTABLY
Sort"a*bly, adv.

Defn: Suitable. [Obs.] otgrave.

SORTAL
Sort"al, a.

Defn: Pertaining to a sort. [Obs.] Locke.

SORTANCE
Sort"ance, n. Etym: [From Sort, v. i.]

Defn: Suitableness; agreement. [Obs.] hak.

SORTER
Sort"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sorts.

SORTES
Sor"tes, n.,

Defn: pl. of Sors.

SORTIE
Sor"tie, n. Etym: [F., fr. sortir to go out, to issue, probably fr.
L. sortus, for surrectus, p.p. of surgere to raise up, to rise up.
See Source.] (Mil.)

Defn: The sudden issuing of a body of troops, usually small, from a
besieged place to attack or harass the besiegers; a sally.

SORTILEGE
Sor"ti*lege, n. Etym: [F. sortilege, fr. L. sors, sortis, a lot +
legere to gather, to select.]

Defn: The act or practice of drawing lots; divination by drawing
lots.
A woman infamous for sortileges and witcheries. Sir W. Scott.

SORTILEGIOUS
Sor`ti*le"gious, a.

Defn: Pertaining to sortilege.

SORTILEGY
Sor"til"e*gy, n.

Defn: Sortilege. [R.] De Quincey.

SORTITA
Sor*ti"ta, n. [It., a coming out.]

1. The air sung by any of the principal characters in an opera on
entering.

2.  A closing voluntary; a postlude.

SORTITION
Sor*ti"tion, n. Etym: [L. sortitio, from sortiri to draw or cast
lots, fr. sors, sortis, a lot.]

Defn: Selection or appointment by lot. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SORTMENT
Sort"ment, n.

Defn: Assortiment. [Obs.]

SORUS
So"rus, n.; pl. Sori. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Bot.)

Defn: One of the fruit dots, or small clusters of sporangia, on the
back of the fronds of ferns.

SORWE
Sor"we, n. & v.

Defn: Sorrow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SORWEFUL
Sor"we*ful, a.

Defn: Sorrowful. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SORY
So"ry, n. Etym: [L. sory, Gr. (Old Min. Chem.)

Defn: Green vitriol, or some earth imregnated with it.

SOS
SOS.

Defn: The letters signified by the signal ( . . . ---. . . )
prescribed by the International Radiotelegraphic Convention of 1912
for use by ships in distress.

SO-SO
So"-so`, a. Etym: [So + so.]

Defn: Neither very good nor very bad; middling; passable; tolerable;
indifferent.
In some Irish houses, where things are so-so, One gammon of bacon
hangs up for a show. Goldsmith.
He [Burns] certainly wrote some so-so verses to the Tree of Liberty.
Prof. Wilson.

SO-SO
So"-so`, adv.

Defn: Tolerably; passably. H. James.

SOSS
Soss, v. i. Etym: [Cf. Souse.]

Defn: To fall at once into a chair or seat; to sit lazily. [Obs.]
Swift.

SOSS
Soss, v. t.

Defn: To throw in a negligent or careless manner; to toss. [Obs.]
Swift.

SOSS
Soss, n.

1. A lazy fellow. [Obs.] Cotgrave.

2. A heavy fall. [Prov. Eng.] Hallowell.

SOSS
Soss, n. Etym: [See Sesspol.]

Defn: Anything dirty or muddy; a dirty puddle. [Prov. Eng.]

SOSTENUTO
Sos`te*nu"to, a. Etym: [It.] (Mus.)

Defn: Sustained; -- applied to a movement or passage the sounds of
which are to sustained to the utmost of the nominal value of the
time; also, to a passage the tones of which are to be somewhat
prolonged or protacted.

SOT
Sot, n. Etym: [F., fr. LL. sottus; of unknown origin, cf. Ir. sotal
pride, soithir proud, or Chald. & NHeb. shoten foolish.]

1. A stupid person; a blockhead; a dull fellow; a dolt. [Obs.] outh.
In Egypt oft has seen the sot bow down, And reverence some dOldham.

2. A person stupefied by excessive drinking; an habitual drunkard. "A
brutal sot." Granville.
Every sign That calls the staring sots to nasty wine. Roscommon.

SOT
Sot, a.

Defn: Sottish; foolish; stupid; dull. [Obs.] "Rich, but sot."
Marston.

SOT
Sot, v. t.

Defn: To stupefy; to infatuate; to besot. [R.]
I hate to see a brave, bold fellow sotted. Dryden.

SOT
Sot, v. i.

Defn: To tipple to stupidity. [R.] Goldsmith.

SOTADEAN
So`ta*de"an, a.

Defn: Sotadic.

SOTADIC
So*tad"ic, a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or resembling, the lascivious compositions of
the Greek poet Sotades.
 -- n.

Defn: A Sotadic verse or poem.

SOTE
Sote, a.

Defn: Sweet. [Obs.] Chaucer. Fairfax.

SOTEL; SOTIL
So"tel, So"til, a.

Defn: Subtile. [Obs.]

SOTERIOLOGY
So*te`ri*ol"o*gy, n. Etym: [Gr. -logy.]

1. A discourse on health, or the science of promoting and preserving
health.

2. (Theol.)

Defn: The doctrine of salvation by Jesus Christ.

SOTHE
Sothe ( or ), a.

Defn: Sooth. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOTHIAC; SOTHIC
So"thi*ac, Soth"ic, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Sothis, the Egyptian name for the Dog Star;
taking its name from the Dog Star; canicular. Sothiac, or Sothic,
year (Chronol.), the Egyptian year of 365 days and 6 hours, as
distinguished from the Egyptian vague year, which contained 365 days.
The Sothic period consists of 1,460 Sothic years, being equal to
1,461 vague years. One of these periods ended in July, a. d. 139.

SOTILTE
So"til*te, n.

Defn: Subtlety. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOTTED
Sot"ted,

Defn: a. & p. p. of Sot. Befooled; deluded; besotted. [Obs.] "This
sotted priest." Chaucer.

SOTTERY
Sot"ter*y, n.

Defn: Folly. [Obs.] Gauden.

SOTTISH
Sot"tish, a. Etym: [From Sot.]

Defn: Like a sot; doltish; very foolish; drunken.
How ignorant are sottish pretenders to astrology! Swift.

Syn.
 -- Dull; stupid; senseless; doltish; infatuate.
 -- Sot"tish*ly, adv.
 -- Sot"tish*ness, n.

SOTTO VOCE
Sot`to vo"ce. Etym: [It.]

1. (Mus.)

Defn: With a restrained voice or moderate force; in an undertone.

2. Spoken low or in an undertone.

SOU
Sou, n.; pl. Sous or. Etym: [F. sou, OF. sol, from L. solidus a gold
coin, in LL., a coin of less value. See Sold, n., Solid, and and cf.
Sol, Soldo.]

Defn: An old French copper coin, equivalent in value to, and now
displaced by, the five-centime piece (sou.

SOUARI NUT
Sou*a"ri nut`. (Bot.)

Defn: The large edible nutlike seed of a tall tropical American tree
(Caryocar nuciferum) of the same natural order with the tea plant; --
also called butternut. [Written also sawarra nut.]

SOUBAH
Sou"bah, n.

Defn: See Subah.

SOUBAHDAR
Sou"bah*dar, n.

Defn: See Subahdar.

SOUBISE
Sou`bise" (soo`bez"), n.

1. [F.] A sauce made of white onions and melted butter mixed with
veloute sauce.

2.  A kind of cravat worn by men in the late 18th century.

SOUBRETTE
Sou`brette", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A female servant or attendant; specifically, as a term of the
theater, a lady's maid, in comedies, who acts the part of an
intrigante; a meddlesome, mischievous female servant or young woman.

SOUBRIQUET
Sou`bri`quet", n.

Defn: See Sobriquet.

SOUCE
Souce, n.

Defn: See 1st Souse.

SOUCE
Souce, v. t. & i.

Defn: See Souse. [Obs.] penser.

SOUCHONG
Sou*chong", n. Etym: [Chin. seou chong little plant or sort.]

Defn: A kind of black tea of a fine quality.

SOUDAN
Sou*dan", n.Etym: [F.]

Defn: A sultan. [Obs.]

SOUDED; SOUDET
Soud"ed, Soud"et, a. Etym: [See Solder.]

Defn: United; consolidated; made firm; strengthened. [Obs.]
O martyr souded for virginity! Chaucer.

SOUFFLE
Souf"fle, n. Etym: [F.] (Med.)

Defn: A murmuring or blowing sound; as, the uterine souffle heard
over the pregnant uterus.

SOUFFLE
Souf"fle, n. Etym: [F., fr. souffle, p.p. of souffler to puff.]
(Cookery)

Defn: A side dish served hot from the oven at dinner, made of eggs,
milk, and flour or other farinaceous substance, beaten till very
light, and flavored with fruits, liquors, or essence.

SOUFFLEE
Soufflee.

Defn: Filled with air by beating, and baked; as, an omelette souffle.

SOUGH
Sough, n.

Defn: A sow. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOUGH
Sough, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A small drain; an adit. [Prov. Eng.] W. M. Buchanan.

SOUGH
Sough, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. s (in comp.) a rushing sound, or OE.
swough, swogh, a sound, AS. sw to rustle. Cf. Surf, Swoon, v. i.]

1. The sound produced by soughing; a hollow murmur or roaring.
The whispering leaves or solemn sough of the forest. W. Howitt.

2. Hence, a vague rumor or flying report. [Scot.]

3. A cant or whining mode of speaking, especially in preaching or
praying. [Scot.] Jamieson.

SOUGH
Sough, v. i.

Defn: To whistle or sigh, as the wind.

SOUGHT
Sought,

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Seek.

SOUKE
Souke, v. t. & i.

Defn: To suck. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOUL
Soul, a.

Defn: Sole. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOUL
Soul, a.

Defn: Sole. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOUL
Soul, v. i. Etym: [F. souler to satiate. See Soil to feed.]

Defn: To afford suitable sustenance. [Obs.] Warner.

SOUL
Soul, n. Etym: [OE. soule, saule, AS. sawel, sawl; akin to OFries. s,
OS. s, D. ziel, G. seele, OHG. s, s, Icel. sala, Sw. sjal, Dan. si?l,
Goth. saiwala; of uncertain origin, perhaps akin to L. saeculum a
lifetime, age (cf. Secular.)]

1. The spiritual, rational, and immortal part in man; that part of
man which enables him to think, and which renders him a subject of
moral government; -- sometimes, in distinction from the higher
nature, or spirit, of man, the so-called animal soul, that is, the
seat of life, the sensitive affections and phantasy, exclusive of the
voluntary and rational powers; -- sometimes, in distinction from the
mind, the moral and emotional part of man's nature, the seat of
feeling, in distinction from intellect; -- sometimes, the intellect
only; the understanding; the seat of knowledge, as distinguished from
feeling. In a more general sense, "an animating, separable, surviving
entity, the vehicle of individual personal existence." Tylor.
The eyes of our souls only then begin to see, when our bodily eyes
are closing. Law.

2. The seat of real life or vitality; the source of action; the
animating or essential part. "The hidden soul of harmony." Milton.
Thou sun, of this great world both eye and soul. Milton.

3. The leader; the inspirer; the moving spirit; the heart; as, the
soul of an enterprise; an able gemeral is the soul of his army.
He is the very soul of bounty! Shak.

4. Energy; courage; spirit; fervor; affection, or any other noble
manifestation of the heart or moral nature; inherent power or
goodness.
That he wants algebra he must confess; But not a soul to give our
arms success. Young.

5. A human being; a person; -- a familiar appellation, usually with a
qualifying epithet; as, poor soul.
As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.
Prov. xxv. 25.
God forbid so many simple souls Should perish by the aword! Shak.
Now mistress Gilpin (careful soul). Cowper.

6. A pure or disembodied spirit.
That to his only Son . . . every soul in heaven Shall bend the knee.
Milton.

Note: Soul is used in the formation of numerous compounds, most of
which are of obvious signification; as, soul-betraying, soul-
consuming, soul-destroying, soul-distracting, soul-enfeebling, soul-
exalting, soul-felt, soul-harrowing, soul-piercing, soul-quickening,
soul-reviving, soul-stirring, soul-subduing, soul-withering, etc.

Syn.
 -- Spirit; life; courage; fire; ardor. Cure of souls. See Cure, n.,
2.
 -- Soul bell, the passing bell. Bp. Hall.
 -- Soul foot. See Soul scot, below. [Obs.] -- Soul scot or Soul
shot. Etym: [Soul + scot, or shot; cf. AS. sawelsceat.] (O. Eccl.
Law) A funeral duty paid in former times for a requiem for the soul.
Ayliffe.

SOUL
Soul, v. t.

Defn: To indue with a soul; to furnish with a soul or mind. [Obs.]
Chaucer.

SOULED
Souled, a.

Defn: Furnished with a soul; possessing soul and feeling; -- used
chiefly in composition; as, great-souled Hector. "Grecian chiefs . .
. largely souled." Dryden.

SOULILI
Sou"li*li`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A long-tailed, crested Javan monkey (Semnopithecus mitratus).
The head, the crest, and the upper surface of the tail, are black.

SOULLESS
Soul"less, a.

Defn: Being without a soul, or without greatness or nobleness of
mind; mean; spiritless.
Slave, souless villain, dog! Shak.

SOULLESSLY
Soul"less*ly, adv.

Defn: In a soulless manner. Tylor.

SOUN
Soun, n. & v.

Defn: Sound. [Obs.] aucer.

SOUND
Sound, n. Etym: [AS. sund a swimming, akin to E. swim. See Swim.]

Defn: The air bladder of a fish; as, cod sounds are an esteemed
article of food.

SOUND
Sound, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A cuttlefish. [Obs.] Ainsworth.

SOUND
Sound, a. [Compar. Sounder; superl. Soundest.] Etym: [OE. sound, AS.
sund; akin to D. gezond, G. gesund, OHG. gisunt, Dan. & Sw. sund, and
perhaps to L. sanus. Cf. Sane.]

1. Whole; unbroken; unharmed; free from flaw, defect, or decay;
perfect of the kind; as, sound timber; sound fruit; a sound tooth; a
sound ship.

2. Healthy; not diseased; not being in a morbid state; -- said of
body or mind; as, a sound body; a sound constitution; a sound
understanding.

3. Firm; strong; safe.
The brasswork here, how rich it is in beams, And how, besides, it
makes the whole house sound. Chapman.

4. Free from error; correct; right; honest; true; faithful; orthodox;
-- said of persons; as, a sound lawyer; a sound thinker.
Do not I know you a favorer Of this new seat Ye are nor sound. Shak.

5. Founded in truth or right; supported by justice; not to be
overthrown on refuted; not fallacious; as, sound argument or
reasoning; a sound objection; sound doctrine; sound principles.
Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me. 2
Tim. i. 13.

6. heavy; laid on with force; as, a sound beating.

7. Undisturbed; deep; profound; as, sound sleep.

8. Founded in law; legal; valid; not defective; as, a sound title to
land.

Note: Sound is sometimes used in the formation of self-explaining
compounds; as, sound-headed, sound-hearted, sound-timbered, etc.
Sound currency (Com.), a currency whose actual value is the same as
its nominal value; a currency which does not deteriorate or
depreciate or fluctuate in comparision with the standard of values.

SOUND
Sound, adv.

Defn: Soundly.
So sound he slept that naught might him awake. Spenser.

SOUND
Sound, n. Etym: [AS. sund a narrow sea or strait; akin to Icel., Sw.,
Dan. & G. sund, probably so named because it could be swum across.
See Swim.] (Geog.)

Defn: A narrow passage of water, or a strait between the mainland and
an island; also, a strait connecting two seas, or connecting a sea or
lake with the ocean; as, the Sound between the Baltic and the german
Ocean; Long Island Sound.
The Sound of Denmark, where ships pay toll. Camden.
Sound dues, tolls formerly imposed by Denmark on vessels passing
through the Baltic Sound.

SOUND
Sound, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Sounded; p. pr. & vb. n. Sounding.] Etym:
[F. sonder; cf. AS. sundgyrd a sounding rod, sundline a sounding line
(see Sound a narrow passage of water).]

1. To measure the depth of; to fathom; especially, to ascertain the
depth of by means of a line and plummet.

2. Fig.: To ascertain, or try to ascertain, the thoughts, motives,
and purposes of (a person); to examine; to try; to test; to probe.
I was in jest, And by that offer meant to sound your breast. Dryden.
I've sounded my Numidians man by man. Addison.

3. (Med.)

Defn: To explore, as the bladder or urethra, with a sound; to examine
with a sound; also, to examine by auscultation or percussion; as, to
sound a patient.

SOUND
Sound, v. i.

Defn: To ascertain the depth of water with a sounding line or other
device.
I sound as a shipman soundeth in the sea with his plummet to know the
depth of sea. Palsgrave.

SOUND
Sound, n. Etym: [F. sonde. See Sound to fathom.] (Med.)

Defn: Any elongated instrument or probe, usually metallic, by which
cavities of the body are sounded or explored, especially the bladder
for stone, or the urethra for a stricture.

SOUND
Sound, n. Etym: [OE. soun, OF. son, sun, F. son, fr. L. sonus akin to
Skr. svana sound, svan to sound, and perh. to E. swan. Cf. Assonant,
Consonant, Person, Sonata, Sonnet, Sonorous, Swan.]

1. The peceived object occasioned by the impulse or vibration of a
material substance affecting the ear; a sensation or perception of
the mind received through the ear, and produced by the impulse or
vibration of the air or other medium with which the ear is in
contact; the effect of an impression made on the organs of hearing by
an impulse or vibration of the air caused by a collision of bodies,
or by other means; noise; report; as, the sound of a drum; the sound
of the human voice; a horrid sound; a charming sound; a sharp, high,
or shrill sound.
The warlike sound Of trumpets loud and clarions. Milton.

2. The occasion of sound; the impulse or vibration which would
occasion sound to a percipient if present with unimpaired; hence, the
theory of vibrations in elastic media such cause sound; as, a
treatise on sound.

Note: In this sense, sounds are spoken of as audible and inaudible.

3. Noise without signification; empty noise; noise and nothing else.
Sense and not sound . . . must be the principle. Locke.
Sound boarding, boards for holding pugging, placed in partitions of
under floors in order to deaden sounds.
 -- Sound bow, in a series of transverse sections of a bell, that
segment against which the clapper strikes, being the part which is
most efficacious in producing the sound. See Illust. of Bell.
 -- Sound post. (Mus.) See Sounding post, under Sounding.

SOUND
Sound, v. i. Etym: [OE. sounen, sownen, OF. soner, suner, F. sonner,
from L. sonare. See Sound a noise.]

1. To make a noise; to utter a voice; to make an impulse of the air
that shall strike the organs of hearing with a perceptible effect.
"And first taught speaking trumpets how to sound." Dryden.
How silver-sweet sound lovers' tongues! Shak.

2. To be conveyed in sound; to be spread or published; to convey
intelligence by sound.
From you sounded out the word of the Lord. 1 Thess. i. 8.

3. To make or convey a certain impression, or to have a certain
import, when heard; hence, to seem; to appear; as, this reproof
sounds harsh; the story sounds like an invention.
Good sir, why do you start, and seem to fear Things that do sound so
fair Shak.
To sound in or into, to tend to; to partake of the nature of; to be
consonant with. [Obs., except in the phrase To sound in damages,
below.]
Soun[d]ing in moral virtue was his speech. Chaucer.
-- To sound in damages (Law), to have the essential quality of
damages. This is said of an action brought, not for the recovery of a
specific thing, as replevin, etc., but for damages only, as trespass,
and the like.

SOUND
Sound, v. t.

1. To causse to make a noise; to play on; as, to sound a trumpet or a
horn.
A bagpipe well could he play and soun[d]. Chaucer.

2. To cause to exit as a sound; as, to sound a note with the voice,
or on an instrument.

3. To order, direct, indicate, or proclain by a sound, or sounds; to
give a signal for by a certain sound; as, to sound a retreat; to
sound a parley.
The clock sounded the hour of noon. G. H. Lewes.

4. To celebrate or honor by sounds; to cause to be reported; to
publish or proclaim; as, to sound the praises of fame of a great man
or a great exploit.

5. To examine the condition of (anything) by causing the same to emit
sounds and noting their character; as, to sound a piece of timber; to
sound a vase; to sound the lungs of a patient.

6. To signify; to import; to denote. [Obs.] Milton.
Soun[d]ing alway the increase of his winning. Chaucer.

SOUNDABLE
Sound"a*ble, a.

Defn: Capable of being sounded.

SOUNDAGE
Sound"age (; 48), n.

Defn: Dues for soundings.

SOUND-BOARD
Sound"-board`, n.

Defn: A sounding-board.
To many a row of pipes the sound-board breathes. Milton.

SOUNDER
Sound"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which; sounds; specifically, an instrument
used in telegraphy in place of a register, the communications being
read by sound.

SOUNDER
Sound"er, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A herd of wild hogs.

SOUNDING
Sound"ing, a.

Defn: Making or emitting sound; hence, sonorous; as, sounding words.
Dryden.

SOUNDING
Sound"ing, n.

1. The act of one who, or that which, sounds (in any of the senses of
the several verbs).

2. (Naut.) Etym: [From Sound to fathom.]
(a) measurement by sounding; also, the depth so ascertained.
(b) Any place or part of the ocean, or other water, where a sounding
line will reach the bottom; -- usually in the plural.
(c) The sand, shells, or the like, that are brought up by the
sounding lead when it has touched bottom. Sounding lead, the plummet
at the end of a sounding line.
 -- Sounding line, a line having a plummet at the end, used in making
soundings.
 -- Sounding post (Mus.), a small post in a violin, violoncello, or
similar instrument, set under the bridge as a support, for
propagating the sounds to the body of the instrument; -- called also
sound post.
 -- Sounding rod (Naut.), a rod used to ascertain the depth of water
in a ship's hold.
 -- In soundings, within the eighty-fathom line. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

SOUNDING BALLOON
Sound"ing bal*loon".

Defn: An unmanned balloon sent aloft for meteorological or aeronautic
purposes.

SOUNDING-BOARD
Sound"ing-board`, n.

1. (Mus.)

Defn: A thin board which propagates the sound in a piano, in a
violin, and in some other musical instruments.

2. A board or structure placed behind or over a pulpit or rostrum to
give distinctness to a speaker's voice.

3. pl.

Defn: See Sound boarding, under Sound, a noise.

SOUNDLESS
Sound"less, a.

Defn: Not capable of being sounded or fathomed; unfathomable. Shak.

SOUNDLESS
Sound"less, a.

Defn: Having no sound; noiseless; silent.
 -- Sound"less*ly, adv.
 -- Sound"less*ness, n.

SOUNDLY
Sound"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sound manner.

SOUNDNESS
Sound"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sound; as, the soundness of
timber, of fruit, of the teeth, etc.; the soundness of reasoning or
argument; soundness of faith.

Syn.
 -- Firmness; strength; solidity; healthiness; truth; rectitude.

SOUNE
Soune, v. t. & i.

Defn: To sound. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOUNST
Sounst, a.

Defn: Soused. See Souse. [Obs.]

SOUP
Soup, n. Etym: [F. soupe, OF. sope, supe, soupe, perhaps originally,
a piece of bread; probably of Teutonic origin; cf. D. sop sop, G.
suppe soup. See Sop something dipped in a liquid, and cf. Supper.]

Defn: A liquid food of many kinds, usually made by boiling meat and
vegetables, or either of them, in water, -- commonly seasoned or
flavored; strong broth. Soup kitchen, an establishment for preparing
and supplying soup to the poor.
 -- Soup ticket, a ticket conferring the privilege of receiving soup
at a soup kitchen.

SOUP
Soup, v. t.

Defn: To sup or swallow. [Obs.] Wyclif.

SOUP
Soup, v. t.

Defn: To breathe out. [Obs.] amden.

SOUP
Soup, v. t.

Defn: To sweep. See Sweep, and Swoop. [Obs.]

SOUPCON
Soup`con", n. [F.]

Defn: A suspicion; a suggestion; hence, a very small portion; a
taste; as, coffee with a soupcon of brandy; a soupcon of coquetry.

SOUPE-MAIGRE
Soupe`-mai"gre, n. Etym: [F.] (Cookery)

Defn: Soup made chiefly from vegetables or fish with a little butter
and a few condiments.

SOUPLE
Sou"ple, n.

Defn: That part of a flail which strikes the grain. Knight.

SOUPY
Soup"y, a.

Defn: Resembling soup; souplike.

SOUR
Sour, a. [Compar. Sourer; superl. Sourest.] Etym: [OE. sour, sur, AS.
s; akin to D. zuur, G. sauer, OHG. s, Icel. s, Sw. sur, Dan. suur,
Lith. suras salt, Russ. surovui harsh, rough. Cf. Sorrel, the plant.]

1. Having an acid or sharp, biting taste, like vinegar, and the
juices of most unripe fruits; acid; tart.
All sour things, as vinegar, provoke appetite. Bacon.

2. Changed, as by keeping, so as to be acid, rancid, or musty,
turned.

3. Disagreeable; unpleasant; hence; cross; crabbed; peevish; morose;
as, a man of a sour temper; a sour reply. "A sour countenance."
Swift.
He was a scholar . . . Lofty and sour to them that loved him not, But
to those men that sought him sweet as summer. Shak.

4. Afflictive; painful. "Sour adversity." Shak.

5. Cold and unproductive; as, sour land; a sour marsh. Sour dock
(Bot.), sorrel.
 -- Sour gourd (Bot.), the gourdlike fruit Adansonia Gregorii, and A.
digitata; also, either of the trees bearing this fruit. See
Adansonia.
 -- Sour grapes. See under Grape.
 -- Sour gum (Bot.) See Turelo.
 -- Sour plum (Bot.), the edible acid fruit of an Australian tree
(Owenia venosa); also, the tree itself, which furnished a hard
reddish wood used by wheelwrights.

Syn.
 -- Acid; sharp; tart; acetous; acetose; harsh; acrimonious; crabbed;
currish; peevish.

SOUR
Sour, n.

Defn: A sour or acid substance; whatever produces a painful effect.
Spenser.

SOUR
Sour, v. t. Etym: [AS. s to sour, to become sour.]

1. To cause to become sour; to cause to turn from sweet to sour; as,
exposure to the air sours many substances.
So the sun's heat, with different powers, Ripens the grape, the
liquor sours. Swift.

2. To make cold and unproductive, as soil. Mortimer.

3. To make unhappy, uneasy, or less agreeable.
To sour your happiness I must report, The queen is dead. Shak.

4. To cause or permit to become harsh or unkindly. "Souring his
cheeks." Shak.
Pride had not sour'd nor wrath debased my heart. Harte.

5. To macerate, and render fit for plaster or mortar; as, to sour
lime for business purposes.

SOUR
Sour, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Soured; p. pr. & vb. n. Souring.]

Defn: To become sour; to turn from sweet to sour; as, milk soon sours
in hot weather; a kind temper sometimes sours in adversity.
They keep out melancholy from the virtuous, and hinder the hatred of
vice from souring into severity. Addison.

SOURCE
Source, n. Etym: [OE. sours, OF. sourse, surse, sorse, F. source, fr.
OF. sors, p.p. of OF. sordre, surdre, sourdre, to spring forth or up,
F. sourdre, fr. L. surgere to lift or raise up, to spring up. See
Surge, and cf. Souse to plunge or swoop as a bird upon its prey.]

1. The act of rising; a rise; an ascent. [Obs.]
Therefore right as an hawk upon a sours Up springeth into the air,
right so prayers . . . Maken their sours to Goddes ears two. Chaucer.

2. The rising from the ground, or beginning, of a stream of water or
the like; a spring; a fountain.
Where as the Poo out of a welle small Taketh his firste springing and
his sours. Chaucer.
Kings that rule Behind the hidden sources of the Nile. Addison.

3. That from which anything comes forth, regarded as its cause or
origin; the person from whom anything originates; first cause.
This source of ideas every man has wholly in himself. Locke.
The source of Newton's light, of Bacon's sense. Pope.

Syn.
 -- See Origin.

SOURCROUT
Sour"crout`, n.

Defn: See Sauerkraut.

SOURDE
Sourde, v. i. Etym: [F. sourdre. See Source.]

Defn: To have origin or source; to rise; to spring. [Obs.]
Now might men ask whereof that pride sourdeth. Chaucer.

SOURING
Sour"ing, n. (Bot.)

Defn: Any sour apple.

SOURISH
Sour"ish, a.

Defn: Somewhat sour; moderately acid; as, sourish fruit; a sourish
taste.

SOURKROUT
Sour"krout`, n.

Defn: Same as Sauerkraut.

SOURLY
Sour"ly, adv.

Defn: In a sour manner; with sourness.

SOURNESS
Sour"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sour.

SOURS
Sours, n.

Defn: Source. See Source. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOURSOP
Sour"sop`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The large succulent and slightly acid fruit of a small tree
(Anona muricata) of the West Indies; also, the tree itself. It is
closely allied to the custard apple.

SOURWOOD
Sour"wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The sorrel tree.

SOUS; SOUSE
Sous, Souse (F. soo; colloq. Eng. sous), n.

Defn: A corrupt form of Sou. [Obs.] Colman, the Elder.

SOUSE
Souse, n. Etym: [OF. sausse. See Sauce.] [Written also souce, sowce,
and sowse.]

1. Pickle made with salt.

2. Something kept or steeped in pickle; esp., the pickled ears, feet,
etc., of swine.
And he that can rear up a pig in his house, Hath cheaper his bacon,
and sweeter his souse. Tusser.

3. The ear; especially, a hog's ear. [Prov. Eng.]

4. The act of sousing; a plunging into water.

SOUSE
Souse, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Soused; p. pr. & vb. n. Sousing.] Etym:
[Cf. F. saucer to wet with sauce. See Souse pickle.]

1. To steep in pickle; to pickle. "A soused gurnet." Shak.

2. To plunge or immerse in water or any liquid.
They soused me over head and ears in water. Addison.

3. To drench, as by an immersion; to wet throughly.
Although I be well soused in this shower. Gascoigne.

SOUSE
Souse, v. i. Etym: [Probably fr. OF. sors, p.p. of sordre to rise,
and first used of an upward swood, then of a swoop in general, but
also confused with Souse, v. t. See Source.]

Defn: To swoop or plunge, as a bird upon its prey; to fall suddenly;
to rush with speed; to make a sudden attack.
For then I viewed his plunge and souse Into the foamy main. Marston.
Jove's bird will souse upon the timorous hare. J. Dryden. Jr.

SOUSE
Souse, v. t.

Defn: To pounce upon. [R.]
[The gallant monarch] like eagle o'er his serie towers, To souse
annoyance that comes near his nest. Shak.

SOUSE
Souse, n.

Defn: The act of sousing, or swooping.
As a falcon fair That once hath failed or her souse full near.
Spenser.

SOUSE
Souse, adv.

Defn: With a sudden swoop; violently. Young.

SOUSLIK
Sous"lik, n. Etym: [F.] (Zool.)

Defn: See Suslik.

SOUT
Sout, n.

Defn: Soot. [Obs.] Spenser.

SOUTACHE
Sou`tache", n. Etym: [F.]

Defn: A kind of narrow braid, usually of silk; -- also known as
Russian braid.

SOUTAGE
Sout"age ( or ; 48), n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: That in which anything is packed; bagging, as for hops. [Obs.]
Halliwell.

SOUTANE
Sou`tane", n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. sotana, or It. sottana, LL. subtana,
fr. L. subtus below, beneath, fr. sub under.] (Eccl. Costume)

Defn: A close garnment with straight sleeves, and skirts reaching to
the ankles, and buttoned in front from top to bottom; especially, the
black garment of this shape worn by the clergy in France and Italy as
their daily dress; a cassock.

SOUTER
Sou"ter, n. Etym: [AS. s, fr. It. sutor, fr. suere to sew.]

Defn: A shoemaker; a cobbler. [Obs.] Chaucer.
There is no work better than another to please God: . . . to wash
dishes, to be a souter, or an apostle, -- all is one. Tyndale.

SOUTERLY
Sou"ter*ly, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to a cobbler or cobblers; like a cobbler;
hence, vulgar; low. [Obs.]

SOUTERRAIN
Sou"ter*rain, n. Etym: [F. See Subterranean.]

Defn: A grotto or cavern under ground. [Obs.] Arbuthnot.

SOUTH
South (; by sailors sou), n. Etym: [OE. south, su?, AS. suedh for
sunedh; akin to D. zuid, OHG. sund, G. sud, suden, Icel. suedhr,
sunnr, Dan. syd, sonden, Sw. syd, soder, sunnan; all probably akin to
E. sun, meaning, the side towards the sun. sq. root297. See Sun.]

1. That one of the four cardinal points directly opposite to the
north; the region or direction to the right or direction to the right
of a person who faces the east.

2. A country, region, or place situated farther to the south than
another; the southern section of a country. "The queen of the south."
Matt. xii. 42.

3. Specifically: That part of the United States which is south of
Mason and Dixon's line. See under Line.

4. The wind from the south. [Obs.] Shak.

SOUTH
South, a.

Defn: Lying toward the south; situated at the south, or in a southern
direction from the point of observation or reckoning; proceeding
toward the south, or coming from the south; blowing from the south;
southern; as, the south pole. "At the south entry." Shak. South-Sea
tea (Bot.) See Yaupon.

SOUTH
South

Defn: , adv.

1. Toward the south; southward.

2. From the south; as, the wind blows south. Bacon.

SOUTH
South, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Southed; p. pr. & vb. n. Southing.]

1. To turn or move toward the south; to veer toward the south.

2. (Astron.)

Defn: To come to the meridian; to cross the north and south line; --
said chiefly of the moon; as, the moon souths at nine.

SOUTHCOTTIAN
South*cot"ti*an, n. (Eccl. Hist.)

Defn: A follower of Joanna Southcott (1750-1814), an Englishwoman
who, professing to have received a miraculous calling, preached and
prophesied, and committed many impious absurdities.

SOUTHDOWN
South"down`, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the South Downs, a range of pasture hills
south of the Thames, in England. Southdown sheep (Zool.), a
celebrated breed of shortwooled, hornless sheep, highly valued on
account of the delicacy of their flesh. So called from the South
Downs where the breed originated.

SOUTHDOWN
South"down`, n.

Defn: A Southdown sheep.

SOUTHEAST
South`east" (; by sailors sou"-), n.

Defn: The point of the compass equally distant from the south and the
east; the southeast part or region.

SOUTHEAST
South`east (; by sailors sou"-), a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the southeast; proceeding toward, or coming
from, the southeast; as, a southeast course; a southeast wind.

SOUTHEASTER
South`east"er, n.

Defn: A storm, strong wind, or gale coming from the southeast.

SOUTHEASTER
South`east"er, adv.

Defn: Toward the southeast.

SOUTHEASTERN
South`east"ern, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the southeast; southeasterly.

SOUTHEASTWARD; SOUTHEASTWARDLY
South`east"ward, South`east"ward*ly, adv.

Defn: Toward the southeast.

SOUTHER
South"er, n.

Defn: A strong wind, gale, or storm from the south.

SOUTHERLINESS
South"er*li*ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being southerly; direction toward the
south.

SOUTHERLY
South"er*ly, a.

Defn: Southern.

SOUTHERN
South"ern, a. Etym: [AS. s. See South.]

Defn: Of or pertaining to the south; situated in, or proceeding from,
the south; situated or proceeding toward the south. Southern Cross
(Astron.), a constellation of the southern hemisphere containing
several bright stars so related in position as to resemble a cross.
 -- Southern Fish (Astron.), a constelation of the southern
hemisphere (Piscis Australis) containing the bright star Fomalhaut.
 -- Southern States (U.S. Hist. & Geog.), the States of the American
Union lying south of Pennsylvania and the Ohio River, with Arkansas,
Louisiana, and Texas. Before the Civil War, Missouri also, being a
slave State, was classed as one of the Southern States.

SOUTHERN
South"ern, n.

Defn: A Southerner. [R.]

SOUTHERNER
South"ern*er, n.

Defn: An inhabitant or native of the south, esp. of the Southern
States of North America; opposed to Northerner.

SOUTHERNLINESS
South"ern*li*ness, n.

Defn: Southerliness.

SOUTHERNLY
South"ern*ly, a.

Defn: Somewhat southern.
 -- adv.

Defn: In a southerly manner or course; southward.

SOUTHERNMOST
South"ern*most`, a.

Defn: Farthest south.

SOUTHERNWOOD
South"ern*wood`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: A shrubby species of wormwood (Artemisia Abrotanum) having
aromatic foliage. It is sometimes used in making beer.

SOUTHING
South"ing, n.

1. Tendency or progress southward; as, the southing of the sun.
Emerson.

2. The time at which the moon, or other heavenly body, passes the
meridian of a place.

3. (Astron.)

Defn: Distance of any heavenly body south of the equator; south
declination; south latitude.

4. (Surv. & Navigation)

Defn: Distance southward from any point departure or of reckoning,
measured on a meridian; -- opposed to northing.

SOUTHLY
South"ly, adv.

Defn: Southerly. [Obs. & R.]

SOUTHMOST
South"most`, a.

Defn: Farthest toward the south; southernmost. [R.] Milton.

SOUTHNESS
South"ness, n.

Defn: A tendency in the end of a magnetic needle to point toward the
south pole. Faraday.

SOUTHPAW
South"paw`, a. (Baseball)

Defn: Using the left hand in pitching; said of a pitcher. [Cant]

SOUTHPAW
South"paw`, n.

Defn: A pitcher who pitches with the left hand. [Cant]

SOUTHREN
South"ren, a.

Defn: Southern. [Obs.] "I am a Southren man." Chaucer.

SOUTHRON
South"ron, n.

Defn: An inhabitant of the more southern part of a country; formerly,
a name given in Scotland to any Englishman.

SOUTHSAY
South"say`, v. i.

Defn: See Soothsay. [Obs.]

SOUTHSAYER
South"say`er, n.

Defn: See Soothsayer. [Obs.]

SOUTH; SOUTHERLY
South` south"er*ly. (Zool.)

Defn: the old squaw; -- so called in imitation of its cry. Called
also southerly, and southerland. See under Old.

SOUTHWARD; SOUTHWARDS
South"ward, South"wards, adv.

Defn: Toward the south, or toward a point nearer the south than the
east or west point; as, to go southward.

SOUTHWARD
South"ward, a.

Defn: Toward the south.

SOUTHWARD
South"ward, n.

Defn: The southern regions or countries; the south. Sir W. Raleigh.

SOUTHWARDLY
South"ward*ly, adv.

Defn: In a southern direction.

SOUTHWEST
South`west (; colloq. sou"-.), n.

Defn: The point of the compass equally from the south and the west;
the southwest part or region.

SOUTHWEST
South`west", a.

Defn: Pertaining to, or in the direction of, the southwest;
proceeding toward the southwest; coming from the southwest; as, a
southwest wind.

SOUTHWESTER
South`west"er (; colloq. , n.

1. A storm, gale, or strong wind from the southwest.

2. A hat made of painted canvas, oiled cloth, or the like, with a
flap at the back, -- worn in stormy weather.

SOUTHWESTERLY
South`west"er*ly, a.

Defn: To ward or from the southwest; as, a southwesterly course; a
southwesterly wind.

SOUTHWESTERN
South`west"ern, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to the southwest; southwesterly; as, to sail a
southwestern course.

SOUTHWESTWARD; SOUTHWESTWARDLY
South`west"ward, South`west"ward*ly, adv.

Defn: Toward the southwest.

SOUVENANCE; SOVENAUNCE
Sou"ve*nance, So"ve*naunce, n. Etym: [F. souvenance.]

Defn: Remembrance. [Obs.]
Of his way he had no sovenance. Spenser.

SOUVENIR
Sou`ve*nir ( or ), n. Etym: [F., fr. souvenir to remember, fr. L.
subvenire to come up, come to mind; sub under + venire to come, akin
to E. come. See Come, and cf. Subvention.]

Defn: That which serves as a reminder; a remembrancer; a memento; a
keepsake.

SOVEREIGN
Sov"er*eign ( or ; 277), a. Etym: [OE. soverain, sovereyn, OF.
soverain, suvrain, F. souverain, LL. superanus, fr. L. superus that
is above, upper, higher, fr. super above. See Over, Super, and cf.
Soprano. The modern spelling is due to a supposed connection with
reign.]

1. Supreme or highest in power; superior to all others; chief; as,
our sovereign prince.

2. Independent of, and unlimited by, any other; possessing, or
entitled to, original authority or jurisdiction; as, a sovereign
state; a sovereign discretion.

3. Princely; royal. "Most sovereign name." Shak.
At Babylon was his sovereign see. Chaucer.

4. Predominant; greatest; utmost; paramount.
We acknowledge him [God] our sovereign good. Hooker.

5. Efficacious in the highest degree; effectual; controlling; as, a
sovereign remedy. Dryden.
Such a sovereign influence has this passion upon the regulation of
the lives and actions of men. South.
Sovereign state, a state which administers its own government, and is
not dependent upon, or subject to, another power.

SOVEREIGN
Sov"er*eign ( or ; 277), n.

1. The person, body, or state in which independent and supreme
authority is vested; especially, in a monarchy, a king, queen, or
emperor.
No question is to be made but that the bed of the Mississippi belongs
to the sovereign, that is, to the nation. Jefferson.

2. A gold coin of Great Britain, on which an effigy of the head of
the reigning king or queen is stamped, valued at one pound sterling,
or about $4.86.

3. (Zool.)

Defn: Any butterfly of the tribe Nymphalidi, or genus Basilarchia, as
the ursula and the viceroy.

Syn.
 -- King; prince; monarch; potentate; emperor.

SOVEREIGNIZE
Sov"er*eign*ize, v. i.

Defn: To exercise supreme authority. [Obs.] Sir T. Herbert.

SOVEREIGNLY
Sov"er*eign*ly, adv.

Defn: In a sovereign manner; in the highest degree; supremely.
Chaucer.

SOVEREIGNTY
Sov"er*eign*ty, n.; pl. Sovereignties. Etym: [OE. soverainetee, OF.
sovrainete, F. souverainete.]

Defn: The quality or state of being sovereign, or of being a
sovereign; the exercise of, or right to exercise, supreme power;
dominion; sway; supremacy; independence; also, that which is
sovereign; a sovereign state; as, Italy was formerly divided into
many sovereignties.
Woman desiren to have sovereignty As well over their husband as over
their love. Chaucer.

SOVRAN
Sov"ran, a.

Defn: A variant of Sovereign. [Poetic]
On thy bald, awful head, O sovran Blanc. Coleridge.

SOW
Sow, v. i.

Defn: To sew. See Sew. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOW
Sow, n. Etym: [OE. sowe, suwe, AS. sugu, akin to su, D. zog, zeug,
OHG. su, G. sau, Icel. syr, Dan. so, Sw. sugga, so, L. sus. Gr. "y^s,
sy^s, Zend. hu boar; probably from the root seen in Skr. su to beget,
to bear; the animal being named in allusion to its fecundity. sq.
root294. Cf. Hyena, Soil to stain, Son, Swine.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: The female of swine, or of the hog kind.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A sow bug.

3. (Metal.)
(a) A channel or runner which receives the rows of molds in the pig
bed.
(b) The bar of metal which remains in such a runner.
(c) A mass of solidified metal in a furnace hearth; a salamander.

4. (Mil.)

Defn: A kind of covered shed, formerly used by besiegers in filling
up and passing the ditch of a besieged place, sapping and mining the
wall, or the like. Craig. Sow bread. (Bot.) See Cyclamen.
 -- Sow bug, or Sowbug (Zool.), any one of numerous species of
terrestrial Isopoda belonging to Oniscus, Porcellio, and allied
genera of the family Oniscid?. They feed chiefly on decaying
vegetable substances.
 -- Sow thistle Etym: [AS. sugepistel] (Bot.), a composite plant
(Sonchus oleraceus) said to be eaten by swine and some other animals.

SOW
Sow, v. t. [imp. Sowed; p. p. Sown or Sowed; p. pr. & vb. n. Sowing.]
Etym: [OE. sowen, sawen, AS. sawan; akin to OFries. s, D. zaaijen,
OS. & HG. sajan, G. saen, Icel. sa, Sw. sa, Dan. saae, Goth. saian,
Lith. seti, Russ. sieiate, L. serere, sevi. Cf. Saturday, Season,
Seed, Seminary.]

1. To scatter, as seed, upon the earth; to plant by strewing; as, to
sow wheat. Also used figuratively: To spread abroad; to propagate.
"He would sow some difficulty." Chaucer.
A sower went forth to sow; and when he sowed, some seeds fell by the
wayside. Matt. xiii. 3, 4.
And sow dissension in the hearts of brothers. Addison.

2. To scatter seed upon, in, or over; to supply or stock, as land,
with seeds. Also used figuratively: To scatter over; to besprinkle.
The intellectual faculty is a goodly field, . . . and it is the worst
husbandry in the world to sow it with trifles. Sir M. Hale.
[He] sowed with stars the heaven. Milton.
Now morn . . . sowed the earth with orient pearl. Milton.

SOW
Sow, v. i.

Defn: To scatter seed for growth and the production of a crop; --
literally or figuratively.
They that sow in tears shall reap in joi. Ps. cxxvi. 5.

SOWANS
Sow"ans ( or ), n. pl.

Defn: See Sowens.

SOWAR
Sow"ar, n. Etym: [Per. sawar a horseman.]

Defn: In India, a mounted soldier.

SOWBANE
Sow"bane`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: The red goosefoot (Chenopodium rubrum), -- said to be fatal to
swine.

SOWCE
Sowce, n. & v.

Defn: See Souse. [Obs.]

SOWDAN
Sow"dan, n. Etym: [F. soudan. See Soldan.]

Defn: Sultan. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOWDANESSE
Sow"dan*esse`, n.

Defn: A sultaness. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOWENS
Sow"ens ( or ), n. pl. Etym: [Scottish; cf. AS. seaw juice, glue,
paste.]

Defn: A nutritious article of food, much used in Scotland, made from
the husk of the oat by a process not unlike that by which common
starch is made; -- called flummery in England. [Written also sowans,
and sowins.]

SOWER
Sow"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sows.

SOWINS
Sow"ins ( or ), n. pl.

Defn: See Sowens.

SOWL; SOWLE
Sowl, Sowle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. prov. G. zaulen, zauseln, G. zausen to
tug, drag.]

Defn: To pull by the ears; to drag about. [Obs.] hak.

SOWL
Sowl, v. i.

Defn: See Soul, v. i. [Obs.]

SOWN
Sown,

Defn: p. p. of Sow.

SOWNE
Sowne, v. t. & i.

Defn: To sound. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SOWSE
Sowse, n. & v.

Defn: See Souse. [Obs.] ryden.

SOWTER
Sow"ter, n.

Defn: See Souter. [Obs.] B. Jonson.

SOY
Soy, n. Etym: [Chinese shoyu.]

1. A Chinese and Japanese liquid sauce for fish, etc., made by
subjecting boiled beans (esp. soja beans), or beans and meal, to long
fermentation and then long digestion in salt and water.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: The soja, a kind of bean. See Soja.

SOYLE
Soyle, v. t. Etym: [Aphetic form of assoil.]

Defn: To solve, to clear up; as, to soyl all other texts. [Obs.]
Tyndate.

SOYLE
Soyle, n. Etym: [Cf. Soil to feed.]

Defn: Prey. [Obs.] Spenser.

SOYNED
Soyn"ed ( or ), a. Etym: [F. soigner to care.]

Defn: Filled with care; anxious. [Obs.] Mir. for Mag.

SOZZLE
Soz"zle, v. t. Etym: [Freq. from soss, v.]

1. To splash or wet carelessly; as, to sozzle the feet in water.
[Local, U.S.] Bartlett.

2. To heap up in confusion. [Prov. Eng.] Forby.

SOZZLE
Soz"zle, n.

1. One who spills water or other liquids carelessly; specifically, a
sluttish woman. [Local, U.S.]

2. A mass, or heap, confusedly mingled. [Prov. Eng.]

SPA
Spa, n.

Defn: A spring or mineral water; -- so called from a place of this
name in Belgium.

SPAAD
Spaad, n. Etym: [Cf. G. spath spar. See Spar the mineral.] (Min.)

Defn: A kind of spar; earth flax, or amianthus. [Obs.] oodward.

SPACE
Space, n. Etym: [OE. space, F. espace, from L. spatium space; cf. Gr.
span. Cf. Expatiate.]

1. Extension, considered independently of anything which it may
contain; that which makes extended objects conceivable and possible.
Pure space is capable neither of resistance nor motion. Locke.

2. Place, having more or
They gave him chase, and hunted him as hare; Long had he no space to
dwell [in]. R. of Brunne.
While I have time and space. Chaucer.

3. A quantity or portion of extension; distance from one thing to
another; an interval between any two or more objects; as, the space
between two stars or two hills; the sound was heard for the space of
a mile.
Put a space betwixt drove and drove. Gen. xxxii. 16.

4. Quantity of time; an interval between two points of time;
duration; time. "Grace God gave him here, this land to keep long
space." R. of brunne.
Nine times the space that measures day and night. Milton.
God may defer his judgments for a time, and give a people a longer
space of repentance. Tillotson.

5. A short time; a while. [R.] "To stay your deadly strife a space."
Spenser.

6. Walk; track; path; course. [Obs.]
This ilke [same] monk let old things pace, And held after the new
world the space. Chaucer.

7. (print.)
(a) A small piece of metal cast lower than a face type, so as not to
receive the ink in printing, -- used to separate words or letters.
(b) The distance or interval between words or letters in the lines,
or between lines, as in books.

Note: Spaces are of different thicknesses to enable the compositor to
arrange the words at equal distances from each other in the same
line.

8. (Mus.)

Defn: One of the intervals, or open places, between the lines of the
staff. Absolute space, Euclidian space, etc. See under Absolute,
Euclidian, etc.
 -- Space line (Print.), a thin piece of metal used by printers to
open the lines of type to a regular distance from each other, and for
other purposes; a lead. Hansard.
 -- Space rule (Print.), a fine, thin, short metal rule of the same
height as the type, used in printing short lines in tabular matter.

SPACE
Space, v. i. Etym: [Cf. OF. espacier, L. spatiari. See Space, n.]

Defn: To walk; to rove; to roam. [Obs.]
And loved in forests wild to space. Spenser.

SPACE
Space, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spaced; p. pr. & vb. n. Spacong.] Etym:
[Cf. F. espacer. See Space, n.] (Print.)

Defn: To arrange or adjust the spaces in or between; as, to space
words, lines, or letters.

SPACE BAR; SPACE KEY
Space bar or key. (Mach.)

Defn: A bar or key, in a typewriter or typesetting machine, used for
spacing between letters.

SPACEFUL
Space"ful, a.

Defn: Wide; extensive. Sandys.

SPACELESS
Space"less, a.

Defn: Without space. Coleridge.

SPACIAL
Spa"cial, a.

Defn: See Spatial.

SPACIALLY
Spa"cial*ly, adv.

Defn: See Spatially. Sir W,Hamilton.

SPACIOUS
Spa"cious, a. Etym: [L. spatiousus: cf. F. spacieux. See Space, n.]

1. Extending far and wide; vast in extent. "A spacious plain
outstretched in circuit wide." Milton.

2. Inclosing an extended space; having large or ample room; not
contracted or narrow; capacious; roomy; as, spacious bounds; a
spacious church; a spacious hall.
 -- Spa"cious*ly, adv.
 -- Spa"cious*ness, n.

SPAD
Spad, n. (Mining)

Defn: A nail one or two inches long, of iron, brass, tin, or tinner
iron, with a hole through the flattened head, used to mark stations
in underground surveying.

SPADASSIN
Spa`das`sin", n. Etym: [F., fr. It. spadaccino a swordsman, from
spada a sword.]

Defn: A bravo; a bully; a duelist. Ld. Lytton.

SPADDLE
Spad"dle, n.

Defn: A little spade. [Obs.]

SPADE
Spade, n. Etym: [Cf. Spay, n.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: A hart or stag three years old. [Written also spaid, spayade.]

2. Etym: [Cf. L. spado.]

Defn: A castrated man or beast.

SPADE
Spade, n. Etym: [AS. sp?d; spada; akin to D. spade, G. spaten, Icel.
spaedhi, Dan. & Sw. spade, L. spatha a spatula, a broad two-edged
sword, a spathe, Gr. spa`qh. Cf. Epaulet, Spade at cards, Spathe,
Spatula.]

1. An implement for digging or cutting the ground, consisting usually
of an oblong and nearly rectangular blade of iron, with a handle like
that of a shovel. "With spade and pickax armed." Milton.

2. Etym: [Sp. espada, literally, a sword; -- so caused because these
cards among the Spanish bear the figure of a sword. Sp. espada is fr.
L. spatha, Gr. spa`qh. See the Etymology above.]

Defn: One of that suit of cards each of which bears one or more
figures resembling a spade.
"Let spades be trumps!" she said. Pope.

3. A cutting instrument used in flensing a whale. Spade bayonet, a
bayonet with a broad blade which may be used digging; -- called also
trowel bayonet.
 -- Spade handle (Mach.), the forked end of a connecting rod in which
a pin is held at both ends. See Illust. of Knuckle joint, under
Knuckle.

SPADE
Spade, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spaded; p. pr. & vb. n. Spading.]

Defn: To dig with a spade; to pare off the sward of, as land, with a
spade.

SPADEBONE
Spade"bone` (, n.

Defn: Shoulder blade. [Prov. Eng.]

SPADEFISH
Spade"fish`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: An American market fish (Ch?todipterus faber) common on the
southern coasts; -- called also angel fish, moonfish, and porgy.

SPADEFOOT
Spade"foot`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: Any species of burrowing toads of the genus Scaphiopus, esp. S.
Holbrookii, of the Eastern United States; -- called also spade toad.

SPADEFUL
Spade"ful, n.; pl. Spadefuls. Etym: [Spade + full.]

Defn: As much as a spade will hold or lift.

SPADER
Spad"er, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, spades; specifically, a digging
machine.

SPADICEOUS
Spa*di"ceous, a. Etym: [L. spadix, -icis, a date-brown or nut-brown
color. See Spadix.]

1. Of a bright clear brown or chestnut color. Sir T. Browne.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Bearing flowers on a spadix; of the nature of a spadix.

SPADICOSE
Spa"di*cose`, a. (Bot.)

Defn: Spadiceous.

SPADILLE
Spa*dille", n. Etym: [F., fr. Sp. espadilla, dim. of espada. See
Spade a card.] (Card Playing)

Defn: The ace of spades in omber and quadrille.

SPADIX
Spa"dix, n.; pl. L. Spadices, E. Spadixes. Etym: [L., a palm branch
broken off, with its fruit, Gr.

1. (Bot.)

Defn: A fleshy spike of flowers, usually inclosed in a leaf called a
spathe.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: A special organ of the nautilus, due to a modification of the
posterior tentacles.

SPADO
Spa"do, n.; pl. Spadones. Etym: [L., fr. Gr.

1. Same as Spade, 2.

2. (Law)

Defn: An impotent person.

SPADROON
Spa*droon", n. Etym: [Cf. F. & Sp. espadon, It. spadone. See Espadon,
Spade.]

Defn: A sword, especially a broadsword, formerly used both to cut and
thrust.

SPAE
Spae, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Spaed; p. pr. & vb. n. Spaeing.] Etym:
[Scot. spae, spay, to foretell, to divine, Icel. spa.]

Defn: To foretell; to divine. [Scot.]

SPAEMAN
Spae"man, n.

Defn: A prophet; a diviner. [Scot.]

SPAEWIFE
Spae"wife`, n.

Defn: A female fortune teller. [Scot.]

SPAGHETTI
Spa*ghet"ti, n. Etym: [It.]

Defn: A variety or macaroni made in tubes of small diameter.

SPAGYRIC; SPAGYRICAL
Spa*gyr"ic, Spa*gyr"ic*al, a. Etym: [LL. sparygicus, fr. Gr.
spagirique.]

Defn: Chemical; alchemical. [Obs.]

SPAGYRIC
Spa*gyr"ic, n.

Defn: A spagyrist. [Obs.] Bp. Hall.

SPAGYRIST
Spag"y*rist, n. Etym: [Cf. F. spagiriste.]

1. A chemist, esp. one devoted to alchemistic pursuits. [Obs.]

2. One of a sect which arose in the days of alchemy, who sought to
discover remedies for disease by chemical means. The spagyrists
historically preceded the iatrochemists. Encyc. Brit.

SPAHI; SPAHEE
Spa"hi, Spa"hee, n. Etym: [Per., Turk., & Hind. sipahi: cf. F. spahi.
See Seroy.]

1. Formerly, one of the Turkish cavalry.

2. An Algerian cavalryman in the French army.

SPAID
Spaid, n.

Defn: See 1st Spade.

SPAKE
Spake, archaic

Defn: imp. of Speak.

SPAKENET
Spake"net`, n. Etym: [Etymol. uncertain.]

Defn: A net for catching crabs. Halliwell.

SPAKY
Spak"y, a.

Defn: Specky. [Obs.] hapman.

SPALDING KNIFE
Spald"ing knife`.

Defn: A spalting knife.

SPALE
Spale, n. Etym: [Cf. Spell a splinter.]

1. A lath; a shaving or chip, as of wood or stone. [Prov. Eng. &
Scot.]

2. (Shipbuilding)

Defn: A strengthening cross timber.

SPALL
Spall, n. Etym: [OF. espaule; cf. It. spalla. See Epaule.]

Defn: The shoulder. [Obs.] Spenser.

SPALL
Spall, n. Etym: [Prov. E. spall, spell. See Spale, Spell a splinter.]

Defn: A chip or fragment, especially a chip of stone as struck off
the block by the hammer, having at least one feather-edge.

SPALL
Spall, v. t.

1. (Mining)

Defn: To break into small pieces, as ore, for the purpose of
separating from rock. Pryce.

2. (Masonry)

Defn: To reduce, as irregular blocks of stone, to an approximately
level surface by hammering.

SPALL
Spall, v. i.

Defn: To give off spalls, or wedge-shaped chips; -- said of stone, as
when badly set, with the weight thrown too much on the outer surface.

SPALPEEN
Spal"peen, n. Etym: [Ir. spailpin, fr. spailp a beau, pride, self-
conceit.]

Defn: A scamp; an Irish term for a good-for-nothing fellow; -- often
used in good-humored contempt or ridicule. [Colloq.]

SPALT
Spalt, n. Etym: [Cf. G. spaltstein, from spalten to split. See 1st
Spell.] (Metal.)

Defn: Spelter. [Colloq.]

SPALT
Spalt, a. Etym: [See 1st Spell.]

1. Liable to break or split; brittle; as, spalt timber. [Prov. Eng.]
Halliwell.

2. Heedless; clumsy; pert; saucy. [Prov. Eng.]

SPALT
Spalt, v. t. & i. Etym: [Cf. OE. spalden. See Spalt, a.]

Defn: To split off; to cleave off, as chips from a piece of timber,
with an ax. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.]

SPALTING KNIFE
Spalt"ing knife`.

Defn: A knife used in splitting codfish. [Written also spalding
knife.]

SPAN
Span, archaic

Defn: imp. & p. p. of Spin.

SPAN
Span, n. Etym: [AS. spann; akin to D. span, OHG. spanna, G. spanne,
Icel. sponn. sq. root170. See Span, v. t. ]

1. The space from the thumb to the end of the little finger when
extended; nine inches; eighth of a fathom.

2. Hence, a small space or a brief portion of time.
Yet not to earth's contracted span Thy goodness let me bound. Pope.
Life's but a span; I'll every inch enjoy. Farquhar.

3. The spread or extent of an arch between its abutments, or of a
beam, girder, truss, roof, bridge, or the like, between its supports.

4. (Naut.)

Defn: A rope having its ends made fast so that a purchase can be
hooked to the bight; also, a rope made fast in the center so that
both ends can be used.

5. Etym: [Cf. D. span, Sw. spann, Dan. sp?nd, G. gespann. See Span,
v. t. ]

Defn: A pair of horses or other animals driven together; usually,
such a pair of horses when similar in color, form, and action. Span
blocks (Naut.), blocks at the topmast and topgallant-mast heads, for
the studding-sail halyards.
 -- Span counter, an old English child's game, in which one throws a
counter on the ground, and another tries to hit it with his counter,
or to get his counter so near it that he can span the space between
them, and touch both the counters. Halliwell. "Henry V., in whose
time boys went to span counter for French crowns." Shak.
 -- Span iron (Naut.), a special kind of harpoon, usually secured
just below the gunwale of a whaleboat.
 -- Span roof, a common roof, having two slopes and one ridge, with
eaves on both sides. Gwilt.
 -- Span shackle (Naut.), a large bolt driven through the forecastle
deck, with a triangular shackle in the head to receive the heel of
the old-fashioned fish davit. Ham. Nav. Encyc.

SPAN
Span, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spanned; p. pr. & vb. n. Spanning.] Etym:
[AS. pannan; akin to D. & G. spannen, OHG. spannan, Sw. spanna, Dan.
sp?nde, Icel. spenna, and perh. to Gr. spatium space. sq. root170.
Cf. Spin, v. t., Space, Spasm.]

1. To measure by the span of the hand with the fingers extended, or
with the fingers encompassing the object; as, to span a space or
distance; to span a cylinder.
My right hand hath spanned the heavens. Isa. xiviii. 13.

2. To reach from one side of to the order; to stretch over as an
arch.
The rivers were spanned by arches of solid masonry. prescott.

3. To fetter, as a horse; to hobble.

SPAN
Span, v. i.

Defn: To be matched, as horses. [U. S.]

SPANAEMIA
Spa*n?"mi*a, n. Etym: [NL., fr. Gr. (Med.)

Defn: A condition of impoverishment of the blood; a morbid state in
which the red corpuscles, or other important elements of the blood,
are deficient.

SPANAEMIC
Spa*n?"mic ( or ), a. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to span?mia; having impoverished blood.

SPANCEL
Span"cel, n. Etym: [Perhaps span + AS. sal a rope.]

Defn: A rope used for tying or hobbling the legs of a horse or cow.
[Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.] Grose.

SPANCEL
Span"cel, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spanceled or Spancelled; p. pr. & vb.
n. Spanceling or Spancelling.]

Defn: To tie or hobble with a spancel. [Prov. Eng. & Local, U.S.]
Malone.

SPANDOGS
Span"dogs`, n. pl.

Defn: A pair of grappling dogs for hoisting logs and timber.

SPANDREL
Span"drel, n. Etym: [From Span.]

1. (Arch.)

Defn: The irregular triangular space between the curve of an arch and
the inclosing right angle; or the space between the outer moldings of
two contiguous arches and a horizontal line above them, or another
arch above and inclosing them.

2. A narrow mat or passe partout for a picture. [Cant]

SPANE
Spane, v. t. Etym: [Akin to G. spanen, LG. & D. spennen, AS. spanu a
teat.]

Defn: To wean. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SPANG
Spang, v. t.

Defn: To spangle. [Obs.]

SPANG
Spang, v. i.

Defn: To spring; to bound; to leap. [Scot.]
But when they spang o'er reason's fence, We smart for't at our own
expense. Ramsay.

SPANG
Spang, n.

Defn: A bound or spring. [Scot.] Sir W. Scott.

SPANG
Spang, n. Etym: [AS. spange a clasp or fastening; akin to D. spang,
G. spange, OHG. spanga, Icel. spong a spangle.]

Defn: A spangle or shining ornament. [Obs.]
With glittering spangs that did like stars appear. Spenser.

SPANGLE
Span"gle, n. Etym: [OE. spangel, dim. of AS. spange. See Spang a
spangle.]

1. A small plate or boss of shining metal; something brilliant used
as an ornament, especially when stitched on the dress.

2. Figuratively, any little thing that sparkless. "The rich spangles
that adorn the sky." Waller. Oak spangle. See under Oak.

SPANGLE
Span"gle, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spangled; p. pr. & vb. n. Spangling.]

Defn: To set or sprinkle with, or as with, spangles; to adorn with
small, distinct, brilliant bodies; as, a spangled breastplate. Donne.
What stars do spangle heaven with such beauty Shak.
Spangled coquette (Zool.), a tropical humming bird (Lophornis
regin?). See Coquette, 2.

SPANGLE
Span"gle, v. i.

Defn: To show brilliant spots or points; to glisten; to glitter.
Some men by feigning words as dark as mine Make truth to spangle, and
its rays to shine. Bunyan.

SPANGLER
Span"gler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, spangles.

SPANGLY
Span"gly, a.

Defn: Resembling, or consisting of, spangles; glittering; as, spangly
light.

SPANIARD
Span"iard, n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Spain.

SPANIEL
Span"iel, n. Etym: [OF. espagneul, F. epagneul, espagnol Spanish, Sp.
espannol, fr. Espana Spain, from L. Hispania.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: One of a breed of small dogs having long and thick hair and
large drooping ears. The legs are usually strongly feathered, and the
tail bushy. See Illust. under Clumber, and Cocker.

Note: There are several varieties of spaniels, some of which, known
as field spaniels, are used in hunting; others are used for toy or
pet dogs, as the Blenheim spaniel, and the King Charles spaniel (see
under Blenheim). Of the field spaniels, the larger kinds are called
springers, and to these belong the Sussex, Norfolk, and Clumber
spaniels (see Clumber). The smaller field spaniels, used in hunting
woodcock, are called cocker spaniels (see Cocker). Field spaniels are
remarkable for their activity and intelligence.
As a spaniel she will on him leap. Chaucer.

2. A cringing, fawning person. Shak.

SPANIEL
Span"iel, a.

Defn: Cringing; fawning. Shak.

SPANIEL
Span"iel, v. i.

Defn: To fawn; to cringe; to be obsequious. [R.] Churchill.

SPANIEL
Span"iel, v. t.

Defn: To follow like a spaniel. [R.]

SPANISH
Span"ish, a.

Defn: Of or pertaining to Spain or the Spaniards. Spanish bayonet
(Bot.), a liliaceous plant (Yucca alorifolia) with rigid spine-tipped
leaves. The name is also applied to other similar plants of the
Southwestern United States and mexico. Called also Spanish daggers.
 -- Spanish bean (Bot.) See the Note under Bean.
 -- Spanish black, a black pigment obtained by charring cork. Ure.
 -- Spanish broom (Bot.), a leguminous shrub (Spartium junceum)
having many green flexible rushlike twigs.
 -- Spanish brown, a species of earth used in painting, having a dark
reddish brown color, due to the presence of sesquioxide of iron.
 -- Spanish buckeye (Bot.), a small tree (Ungnadia speciosa) of
Texas, New Mexico, etc., related to the buckeye, but having pinnate
leaves and a three-seeded fruit.
 -- Spanish burton (Naut.), a purchase composed of two single blocks.
A double Spanish burton has one double and two single blocks. Luce
(Textbook of Seamanship).
 -- Spanish chalk (Min.), a kind of steatite; -- so called because
obtained from Aragon in Spain.
 -- Spanish cress (Bot.), a cruciferous plant (lepidium Cadamines), a
species of peppergrass.
 -- Spanish curiew (Zool.), the long-billed curlew. [U.S.] -- Spanish
daggers (Bot.) See Spanish bayonet.
 -- Spanish elm (Bot.), a large West Indian tree (Cordia
Gerascanthus) furnishing hard and useful timber.
 -- Spanish feretto, a rich reddish brown pigment obtained by
calcining copper and sulphur together in closed crucibles.
 -- Spanish flag (Zool.), the California rockfish (Sebastichthys
rubrivinctus). It is conspicuously colored with bands of red and
white.
 -- Spanish fly (Zool.), a brilliant green beetle, common in the
south of Europe, used for raising blisters. See Blister beetle under
Blister, and Cantharis.
 -- Spanish fox (Naut.), a yarn twisted against its lay.
 -- Spanish grass. (Bot.) See Esparto.
 -- Spanish juice (Bot.), licorice.
 -- Spanish leather. See Cordwain.
 -- Spanish mackerel. (Zool.) (a) A species of mackerel (Scomber
colias) found both in Europe and America. In America called chub
mackerel, big-eyed mackerel, and bull mackerel. (b) In the United
States, a handsome mackerel having bright yellow round spots
(Scomberomorus maculatus), highly esteemed as a food fish. The name
is sometimes erroneously applied to other species. See Illust. under
Mackerel.
 -- Spanish main, the name formerly given to the southern portion of
the Caribbean Sea, together with the contiguous coast, embracing the
route traversed by Spanish treasure ships from the New to the Old
World.
 -- Spanish moss. (Bot.) See Tillandsia.
 -- Spanish needles (Bot.), a composite weed (Bidens bipinnata)
having achenia armed with needlelike awns.
 -- Spanish nut (Bot.), a bulbous plant (Iris Sisyrinchium) of the
south of Europe.
 -- Spanish potato (Bot.), the sweet potato. See under Potato.
 -- Spanish red, an ocherous red pigment resembling Venetian red, but
slightly yellower and warmer. Fairholt.
 -- Spanish reef (Naut.), a knot tied in the head of a jib-headed
sail.
 -- Spanish sheep (Zool.), a merino.
 -- Spanish white, an impalpable powder prepared from chalk by
pulverizing and repeated washings, -- used as a white pigment.
 -- Spanish windlass (Naut.), a wooden roller, with a rope wound
about it, into which a marline spike is thrust to serve as a lever.

SPANISH
Span"ish, n.

Defn: The language of Spain.

SPANK
Spank (, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spanked (; p. pr. & vb. n. Spanking.]
Etym: [Of unknown origin; cf. LG. spakken, spenkern, to run and
spring about quickly.]

Defn: To strike, as the breech, with the open hand; to slap.

SPANK
Spank, n.

Defn: A blow with the open hand; a slap.

SPANK
Spank, v. i.

Defn: To move with a quick, lively step between a trot and gallop; to
move quickly. Thackeray.

SPANKER
Spank"er, n.

1. One who spanks, or anything used as an instrument for spanking.

2. (Naut.)

Defn: The after sail of a ship or bark, being a fore-and-aft sail
attached to a boom and gaff; -- sometimes called driver. See Illust.
under Sail. Totten.

3. One who takes long, quick strides in walking; also, a fast horse.
[Colloq.]

4. Something very large, or larger than common; a whopper, as a stout
or tall person. [Colloq.] Spanker boom (Naut.), a boom to which a
spanker sail is attached. See Illust. of Ship.

SPANKER
Spank"er, n.

Defn: A small coin. [Obs. or Prov. Eng.]

SPANKING
Spank"ing, a.

1. Moving with a quick, lively pace, or capable of so doing; dashing.
Four spanking grays ready harnessed. G. Colman, the Younger.

2. Large; considerable. [Colloq.]

SPANKING BREEZE
Spanking breeze (Naut.),

Defn: a strong breeze.

SPANLESS
Span"less, a.

Defn: Incapable of being spanned.

SPANNER
Span"ner, n.

1. One who, or that which, spans.

2. The lock of a fusee or carbine; also, the fusee or carbine itself.
[Obs.]

3. An iron instrument having a jaw to fit a nut or the head of a
bolt, and used as a lever to turn it with; a wrench; specifically, a
wrench for unscrewing or tightening the couplings of hose.

4. pl.

Defn: A contrivance in some of the ealier steam engines for moving
the valves for the alternate admission and shutting off of the steam.

SPAN-NEW
Span"-new`, a. Etym: [Icel. spann, properly, new as a ship just
split; spann chip + n new. See Spoon, and New.]

Defn: Quite new; brand-new; fire-new. "A span-new archbishop's
chair." Fuller.

SPANNISHING
Span"nish*ing, n. Etym: [From OF. espanir to spread, F. epanou. See
Expand.]

Defn: The full blooming of a flower. [Obs.] Rom. of R.

SPANPIECE
Span"piece, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The collar of a roof; sparpiece.

SPANWORM
Span"worm`, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The larva of any geometrid moth, as the cankeworm; a geometer;
a measuring worm.

SPAR
Spar, n. Etym: [AS. sp?r in sp?rstan chalkstone; akin to MHG. spar,
G. sparkalk plaster.] (Min.)

Defn: An old name for a nonmetallic mineral, usually cleavable and
somewhat lustrous; as, calc spar, or calcite, fluor spar, etc. It was
especially used in the case of the gangue minerals of a metalliferous
vein. Blue spar, Cube spar, etc. See under Blue, Cube, etc.

SPAR
Spar, n. Etym: [OE. sparre; akin to D. spar, G. sparren, OHG. sparro,
Dan.& Sw. sparre, Icel. sparri; of uncertain origin. Spar, v. t. ]

1. (Naut.)

Defn: A general term any round piece of timber used as a mast, yard,
boom, or gaff.

2. (Arch.)

Defn: Formerly, a piece of timber, in a general sense; -- still
applied locally to rafters.

3. The bar of a gate or door. [Obs.] Chaucer. Spar buoy (Naut.), a
buoy anchored by one end so that the other end rises above the
surface of the water.
 -- Spar deck (Naut.), the upper deck of a vessel; especially, in a
frigate, the deck which is continued in a straight line from the
quarter-deck to the forecastle, and on which spare spars are usually
placed. See under Deck.
 -- Spar torpedo (Naut.), a torpedo carried on the end of a spar
usually projecting from the bow of a vessel, and intended to explode
upon contact with an enemy's ships.

SPAR
Spar, v. t. Etym: [OE. sparren, AS. sparrian; akin to G. sperren,
Icel. sperra; from the noun. sq. root171. See Spara beam, bar.]

1. To bolt; to bar. [Obs.] Chaucer.

2. To To supply or equip with spars, as a vessel.

Note: A vessel equipped with spars that are too large or too small is
said to be oversparred or undersparred.

SPAR
Spar, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sparred; p. pr. & vb. n. Sparring.] Etym:
[Of uncertain origin; cf. OF. esparer to kick, F. eparer, or Icel.
sperra to stretch out the legs, to struggle.]

1. To strike with the feet or spurs, as cocks do.

2. To use the fists and arms scientifically in attack or defense; to
contend or combat with the fists, as for exercise or amusement; to
box.
Made believe to spar at Paul with great science. Dickens.

3. To contest in words; to wrangle. [Colloq.]

SPAR
Spar, n.

1. A contest at sparring or boxing.

2. A movement of offense or defense in boxing.

SPARABLE
Spar"a*ble, n. Etym: [Corrupted from sparrow bill.]

Defn: A kind of small nail used by shoemakers.

SPARADA
Spar"a*da, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A small California surf fish (Micrometrus aggregatus); --
called also shiner.

SPARADRAP
Spar"a*drap, n. Etym: [F. sparadrap; cf. It. sparadrappo, NL.
sparadrapa.]

1. A cerecloth. [Obs.]

2. (Med.)

Defn: Any adhesive plaster.

SPARAGE; SPARAGUS; SPARAGRASS
Spar"age, Spar"a*gus, Spar"a*grass`, n.

Defn: Obs. or corrupt forms of Asparagus.

SPARBLE
Spar"ble, v. t. Etym: [OF. esparpiller to scatter, F. eparpiller.]

Defn: To scatter; to disperse; to rout. [Obs.]
The king's host was sparbled and chased. Fabyan.

SPARE
Spare, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spared; p. pr. & vb. n.n Sparing.] Etym:
[AS. sparian, fr. sp?r spare, sparing, saving; akin to D. & G.
sparen, OHG. spar, Icel. & Sw. spara, Dan. spare See Spare, a.]

1. To use frugally or stintingly, as that which is scarce or
valuable; to retain or keep unused; to save. "No cost would he
spare." Chaucer.
[Thou] thy Father's dreadful thunder didst not spare. Milton.
He that hath knowledge, spareth his words. Prov. xvii. 27.

2. To keep to one's self; to forbear to impart or give.
Be pleased your plitics to spare. Dryden.
Spare my sight the pain Of seeing what a world of tears it costs you.
Dryden.

3. To preserve from danger or punishment; to forbear to punish,
injure, or harm; to show mercy to.
Spare us, good Lord. Book of Common Prayer.
Dim sadness did not spare That time celestial visages. Milton.
Man alone can whom he conquers spare. Waller.

4. To save or gain, as by frugality; to reserve, as from some
occupation, use, or duty.
All the time he could spare from the necessary cares of his weighty
charge, he Knolles.

5. To deprive one's self of, as by being frugal; to do without; to
dispense with; to give up; to part with.
Where angry Jove did never spare One breath of kind and temperate
air. Roscommon.
I could have better spared a better man. Shak.
To spare one's self. (a) To act with reserve. [Obs.]
Her thought that a lady should her spare. Chaucer.
(b) To save one's self labor, punishment, or blame.

SPARE
Spare, v. i.

1. To be frugal; not to be profuse; to live frugally; to be
parsimonious.
I, who at some times spend, at others spare, Divided between
carelessness and care. Pope.

2. To refrain from inflicting harm; to use mercy or forbearance.
He will not spare in the day of vengeance. Prov. vi. 34.

3. To desist; to stop; to refrain. [Obs.] Chaucer.

SPARE
Spare, a. [Compar. Sparer; superl. Sparest; -- not used in all the
senses of the word.] Etym: [AS. sp?r sparing. Cf. Spare, v. t. ]

1. Scanty; not abundant or plentiful; as, a spare diet.

2. Sparing; frugal; parsimonious; chary.
He was spare, but discreet of speech. Carew.

3. Being over and above what is necessary, or what must be used or
reserved; not wanted, or not used; superfluous; as, I have no spare
time.
If that no spare clothes he had to give. Spenser.

4. Held in reserve, to be used in an emergency; as, a spare anchor; a
spare bed or room.

5. Lean; wanting flesh; meager; thin; gaunt.
O, give me the spare men, and spare me the great ones. Shak.

6. Slow. [Obs. or prov. Eng.] Grose.

SPARE
Spare, n.

1. The act of sparing; moderation; restraint. [Obs.]
Killing for sacrifice, without any spare. Holland.

2. Parsimony; frugal use. [Obs.] Bacon.
Poured out their plenty without spite or spare. Spenser.

3. An opening in a petticoat or gown; a placket. [Obs.]

4. That which has not been used or expended.

5. (Tenpins)

Defn: The right of bowling again at a full set of pins, after having
knocked all the pins down in less than three bowls. If all the pins
are knocked down in one bowl it is a double spare; in two bowls, a
single spare.

SPAREFUL
Spare"ful, a.

Defn: Sparing; chary. [Obs.] Fairfax.
 -- Spare"ful*ness, n. [Obs.] Sir P. Sidney.

SPARELESS
Spare"less, a.

Defn: Unsparing. Sylvester.

SPARELY
Spare"ly, adv.

Defn: In a spare manner; sparingly.

SPARENESS
Spare"ness, n. Etym: [Cf. AS. sp?rnis frugality.]

Defn: The quality or state of being lean or thin; leanness.

SPARER
Spar"er, n.

Defn: One who spares.

SPARERIB
Spare"rib`, n. Etym: [Spare, a. + rib.]

Defn: A piece of pork, consisting or ribs with little flesh on them.

SPARGE
Sparge, v. t. Etym: [L. spargere; cf. F. asperger.]

Defn: To sprinkle; to moisten by sprinkling; as, to sparge paper.

SPARGEFACTION
Spar`ge*fac"tion, n. Etym: [L. spargere to strew + facere, factum, to
make.]

Defn: The act of sprinkling. [Obs.] Swift.

SPARGER
Spar"ger, n. Etym: [Cf. F. asperger to sprinkle, L. aspergere,
spargere.]

Defn: A vessel with a perforated cover, for sprinkling with a liquid;
a sprinkler.

SPARHAWK
Spar"hawk`, n. Etym: [OE. sperhauke.] (Zool.)

Defn: The sparrow hawk. [Prov. Eng.]

SPAR-HUNG
Spar"-hung`, a.

Defn: Hung with spar, as a cave.

SPARING
Spar"ing, a.

Defn: Spare; saving; frugal; merciful. Bacon.
 -- Spar"ing*ly, adv.
 -- Spar"ing*ness, n.

SPARK
Spark, n. Etym: [OE. sparke, AS. spearca; akin to D. spark, sperk;
cf. Icel. spraka to crackle, Lith. sprageti, Gr. sph to crackle, to
thunder. Cf. Speak.]

1. A small particle of fire or ignited substance which is emitted by
a body in combustion.
Man is born unto trouble, as hte sparks fly upward. Job v. 7.

2. A small, shining body, or transient light; a sparkle.

3. That which, like a spark, may be kindled into a flame, or into
action; a feeble germ; an elementary principle. "If any spark of life
be yet remaining." Shak. "Small intellectual spark." Macaulay. "Vital
spark of heavenly flame." Pope.
We have here and there a little clear light, some sparks of bright
knowledge. Locke.
Bright gem instinct with music, vocal spark. Wordsworth.
Spark arrester, a contrivance to prevent the escape of sparks while
it allows the passage of gas, -- chiefly used in the smokestack of a
wood-burning locomotive. Called also spark consumer. [U.S.]

SPARK
Spark, n. Etym: [Icel. sparkr lively, sprightly.]

1. A brisk, showy, gay man.
The finest sparks and cleanest beaux. Prior.

2. A lover; a gallant; a beau.

SPARK
Spark, v. i.

Defn: To sparkle. [Obs.] Spenser.

SPARK
Spark, v. i.

Defn: To play the spark, beau, or lover.
A sure sign that his master was courting, or, as it is termed,
sparking, within. W. Irwing.

SPARK COIL
Spark coil. (Elec.)
 (a) An induction coil, esp. of an internal-combustion engine,
wireless telegraph apparatus, etc.
 (b) A self-induction coil used to increase the spark in an electric
gas-lighting apparatus.

SPARKER
Spark"er, n.

Defn: A spark arrester.

SPARKFUL
Spark"ful, a.

Defn: Lively; brisk; gay. [Obs.] "Our sparkful youth." Camden.

SPARK GAP
Spark gap. (Elec.)

Defn: The space filled with air or other dielectric between high
potential terminals (as of an electrostatic machine, induction coil,
or condenser), through which the discharge passes; the air gap of a
jump spark.

SPARKISH
Spark"ish, a.

1. Like a spark; airy; gay. W. Walsh.

2. Showy; well-dresed; fine. L'Estrange.

SPARKLE
Spar"kle, n. Etym: [Dim. of spark.]

1. A little spark; a scintillation.
As fire is wont to quicken and go From a sparkle sprungen amiss, Till
a city brent up is. Chaucer.
The shock was sufficiently strong to strike out some sparkles of his
fiery temper. Prescott.

2. Brilliancy; luster; as, the sparkle of a diamond.

SPARKLE
Spar"kle, v. i. [imp. & p. p. Sparkled; p. pr. & vb. n. Sparkling.]
Etym: [See Sparkle, n., Spark of fire.]

1. To emit sparks; to throw off ignited or incandescent particles; to
shine as if throwing off sparks; to emit flashes of light; to
scintillate; to twinkle; as, the blazing wood sparkles; the stars
sparkle.
A mantelet upon his shoulder hanging Bretful of rubies red, as fire
sparkling. Chaucer.

2. To manifest itself by, or as if by, emitting sparks; to glisten;
to flash.
I see bright honor sparkle through your eyes. Milton.

3. To emit little bubbles, as certain kinds of liquors; to
effervesce; as, sparkling wine.

Syn.
 -- To shine; glisten; scintillate; radiate; coruscate; glitter;
twinkle.

SPARKLE
Spar"kle, v. t.

Defn: To emit in the form or likeness of sparks. "Did sparkle forth
great light." Spenser.

SPARKLE
Spar"kle, v. t. Etym: [Cf. Sparble.]

1. To disperse. [Obs.]
The Landgrave hath sparkled his army without any further enterprise.
State Papers.

2. To scatter on or over. [Obs.] Purchas.

SPARKLER
Spar"kler, n.

Defn: One who scatters; esp., one who scatters money; an improvident
person. [Obs.]

SPARKLER
Spar"kler, n.

Defn: One who, or that which, sparkles.

SPARKLER
Spar"kler, n. (Zool.)

Defn: A tiger beetle.

SPARKLET
Spark"let, n.

Defn: A small spark. [Obs.]

SPARKLINESS
Spark"li*ness, n.

Defn: Vivacity. [Obs.] Aubrey.

SPARKLING
Spar"kling, a.

Defn: Emitting sparks; glittering; flashing; brilliant; lively; as,
sparkling wine; sparkling eyes.
 -- Spar"kling*ly, adv.
 -- Spar"kling*ness, n.

Syn.
 -- Brilliant; shining. See Shining.

SPARK PLUG
Spark plug.

Defn: In internal-combustion engines with electric ignition, a plug,
screwed into the cylinder head, having through it an insulated wire
which is connected with the induction coil or magneto circuit on the
outside, and forms, with another terminal on the base of the plug, a
spark gap inside the cylinder.

SPARLING
Spar"ling, n. Etym: [Akin to G. spierling, spiering, D. spiering: cf.
F. eperlan.] (Zool.)
(a) The European smelt (Osmerus eperlanus).
(b) A young salmon.
(c) A tern. [Scot. & Prov. Eng.]

SPARLYRE
Spar"lyre`, n. Etym: [AS. spear-lira.]

Defn: The calf of the leg. [Obs.] Wyclif (Deut. xxviii. 35).

SPAROID
Spa"roid, a. Etym: [L. sparus the gilthead + -oid: cf. F. sparoide.]
(Zool.)

Defn: of or pertaining to the Sparid?, a family of spinous-finned
fishes which includes the scup, sheepshead, and sea bream.
 -- n.

Defn: One of the Sparid?.

SPARPIECE
Spar"piece`, n. (Arch.)

Defn: The collar beam of a roof; the spanpiece. Gwilt.

SPARPOIL
Spar"poil, v. t. Etym: [See Sparble.]

Defn: To scatter; to spread; to disperse. [Obs.]

SPARROW
Spar"row, n. Etym: [OE. sparwe, AS. spearwa; akin to OHG. sparo, G.
sperling, Icel. sporr, Dan. spurv, spurre, Sw. sparf, Goth. sparwa; -
- originally, probably, the quiverer or flutterer, and akin to E.
spurn. See Spurn, and cf. Spavin.]

1. (Zool.)

Defn: One of many species of small singing birds of the family
Fringillig?, having conical bills, and feeding chiefly on seeds. Many
sparrows are called also finches, and buntings. The common sparrow,
or house sparrow, of Europe (Passer domesticus) is noted for its
familiarity, its voracity, its attachment to its young, and its
fecundity. See House sparrow, under House.

Note: The following American species are well known; the chipping
sparrow, or chippy, the sage sparrow, the savanna sparrow, the song
sparrow, the tree sparrow, and the white-throated sparrow (see
Peabody bird). See these terms under Sage, Savanna, etc.

2. (Zool.)

Defn: Any one of several small singing birds somewhat resembling the
true sparrows in form or habits, as the European hedge sparrow. See
under Hedge.
He that doth the ravens feed, Yea, providently caters for the
sparrow, Be comfort to my age! Shak.
Field sparrow, Fox sparrow, etc. See under Field, Fox, etc.
 -- Sparrow bill, a small nail; a castiron shoe nail; a sparable.
 -- Sparrow hawk. (Zool.) (a) A small European hawk (Accipiter nisus)
or any of the allied species. (b) A small American falcon (Falco
sparverius). (c) The Australian collared sparrow hawk (Accipiter
torquatus).

Note: The name is applied to other small hawks, as the European
kestrel and the New Zealand quail hawk.
 -- Sparrow owl (Zool.), a small owl (Glaucidium passerinum) found
both in the Old World and the New. The name is also applied to other
species of small owls.
 -- Sparrow spear (Zool.), the female of the reed bunting. [Prov.
Eng.]

SPARROWGRASS
Spar"row*grass`, n. Etym: [Corrupted from asparagus.]

Defn: Asparagus. [Colloq.] See the Note under Asparagus.

SPARROWWORT
Spar"row*wort`, n. (Bot.)

Defn: An evergreen shrub of the genus Erica (E. passerina).

SPARRY
Spar"ry, a. Etym: [From Spar.]

Defn: Resembling spar, or consisting of spar; abounding with spar;
having a confused crystalline structure; spathose. Sparry iron
(Min.), siderite. See Siderite (a).
 -- Sparry limestone (Min.), a coarsely crystalline marble.

SPARSE
Sparse, a. [Compar. Sparser; superl. Sparsest.] Etym: [L. sparsus,
p.p. of spargere to strew, scatter. Cf. Asperse, Disperse.]

1. Thinly scattered; set or planted here and there; not being dense
or close together; as, a sparse population. Carlyle.

2. (Bot.)

Defn: Placed irregularly and distantly; scattered; -- applied to
branches, leaves, peduncles, and the like.

SPARSE
Sparse, v. t. Etym: [L. sparsus, p.p. of spargere to scatter.]

Defn: To scatter; to disperse. [Obs.] Spenser.

SPARSEDLY
Spars"ed*ly, adv.

Defn: Sparsely. [Obs.]

SPARSELY
Sparse"ly, adv.

Defn: In a scattered or sparse manner.

SPARSENESS
Sparse"ness, n.

Defn: The quality or state of being sparse; as, sparseness of
population.

SPARSIM
Spar"sim, adv. Etym: [L., fr. spargere to scatter.]

Defn: Sparsely; scatteredly; here and there.

SPARTAN
Spar"tan, a. Etym: [L. Spartanus.]

Defn: of or pertaining to Sparta, especially to ancient Sparta;
hence, hardy; undaunted; as, Spartan souls; Spartan bravey.
 -- n.

Defn: A native or inhabitant of Sparta; figuratively, a person of
great courage and fortitude.

SPARTEINE
Spar"te*ine, n. (Chem.)

Defn: A narcotic alkaloid extracted from the tops of the common broom
(Cytisus scoparius, formerly Spartium scoparium), as a colorless oily
liquid of aniline-like odor and very bitter taste.

SPARTERIE
Spar"ter*ie, n. Etym: [F., from Sp. esparto esparto, L. spartum, Gr.

Defn: Articles made of the blades or fiber of the Lygeum Spartum and
Stipa (or Macrochloa) tenacissima, kinds of grass used in Spain and
other countries for making ropes, mats, baskets, nets, and
mattresses. Loudon.

SPARTH
Sparth, n. Etym: [Cf. Icel. spar.]

Defn: An Anglo-Saxon battle-ax, or halberd. [Obs.]
He hath a sparth of twenty pound of weight. Chaucer.

SPARVE
Sparve, n. (Zool.)

Defn: The hedge sparrow. [Prov. Eng.]

SPARY
Spar"y, a.

Defn: Sparing; parsimonious. [Obs.]

SPASM
Spasm, n. Etym: [F. spasme, L. spasmus, Gr. Span, v. t.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: An involuntary and unnatural contraction of one or more muscles
or muscular fibers.

Note: Spasm are usually either clonic or tonic. In clonic spasm, the
muscles or muscular fibers contract and relax alternately in very
quick succession. In tonic spasm, the contraction is steady and
uniform, and continues for a comparatively long time, as in tetanus.

2. A sudden, violent, and temporary effort or emotion; as, a spasm of
repentance. Cynic spasm (Med.) See under Cynic.
 -- Spasm of the chest. See Angina pectoris, under Angina.

SPASMATICAL
Spas*mat"ic*al, a.

Defn: Spasmodic. [Obs.]

SPASMODIC
Spas"mod"ic, a. Etym: [Gr. spasmotique.]

1. (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to spasm; consisting in spasm; occuring in, or
characterized by, spasms; as, a spasmodic asthma.

2. Soon relaxed or exhausted; convulsive; intermittent; as, spasmodic
zeal or industry. Spasmodic croup (Med.), an affection of childhood
characterized by a stoppage of brathing developed suddenly and
without fever, and produced by spasmodic contraction of the vocal
cords. It is sometimes fatal. Called also laryngismus stridulus, and
childcrowing.
 -- Spasmodic stricture, a stricture caused by muscular spasm without
structural change. See Organic stricture, under Organic.

SPASMODIC
Spas*mod"ic, n. (Med.)

Defn: A medicine for spasm.

SPASMODICAL
Spas*mod"ic*al, a.

Defn: Same as Spasmodic, a.
 -- Spas*mod"ic*al*ly, adv.

SPASTIC
Spas"tic, a. Etym: [L. spasticus, Gr. spastique. See Spasm.] (Med.)

Defn: Of or pertaining to spasm; spasmodic; especially, pertaining to
tonic spasm; tetanic.

SPASTICALLY
Spas"tic*al*ly, adv.

Defn: Spasmodically.

SPASTICITY
Spas*tic"i*ty, n.

1. A state of spasm.

2. The tendency to, or capability of suffering, spasm.

SPAT
Spat,

Defn: imp. of Spit. [Obs. or R.]

SPAT
Spat, n. Etym: [From the root of spit; hence, literally, that which
is ejected.]

Defn: A young oyster or other bivalve mollusk, both before and after
it first becomes adherent, or such young, collectively.

SPAT
Spat, v. i. & t.

Defn: To emit spawn; to emit, as spawn.

SPAT
Spat, n. Etym: [Cf. Pat.]

1. A light blow with something flat. [U.S. & Prov. Eng.]

2. Hence, a petty combat, esp. a verbal one; a little quarrel,
dispute, or dissension. [U. S.]

SPAT
Spat, v. i.

Defn: To dispute. [R.] Smart.

SPAT
Spat, v. t. [imp. & p. p. Spatted; p. pr. & vb. n. Spatting.]
