Translation and Commentary by Edward Rosen
THE JOHNS HOPKINS UNIVERSITY PRESS
Baltimore and London

Nicholas Copemicus
(1473-1543)
That Nicholas Copernicus delayed until near death to
publish De revolutionibus has been taken as a sign
that he was well aware of the possible furor his work
might incite; certainly his preface to Pope Paul III
anticipates many of the objections it raised. But he
could hardly have anticipated that he would
eventually become one of the most famous people of
all time on the basis of a book that comparatively few
have actually read (and fewer still understood) in the
450 years since it was first printed.
Copernicus was bom into a well-to-do mercantile
family in 1473, at Torun, Poland. After the death of
his father, he was sponsored by his uncle, Bishop
Watzenrode, who sent him first to the University of
Krakow, and then to study in Italy at the universities
of Bologna, Padua and Ferrara. His concentrations
there were law and medicine, but his lectures on the
subject at the University of Rome in 1501 already
evidenced his interest in astronomy. Returning to
Poland, he spent the rest of his life as a church canon
under his uncle, though he also found time to practice
medicine and to write on monetary reform, not to
mention his work as an astronomer.
In 1514, Copernicus privately circulated an outline of
his thesis on planetary motion, but actual publication
of De revolutionibus orbium coelestium (On the
Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres) containing his
mathematical proofs did not occur until 1543, after a
supporter named Rheticus had impatiently taken it
upon himself to publish a brief description of the

Copernican system (Narratio prima) in 1541. Most of
De revolutionibus requires a great deal of the modem
reader, since sixteenth century methods of
mathematical proofs are quite foreign to us; this is
evident in the section of Book VI that is included.
However, Book I and Copernicus’ preface are more
readily accessible. It must be noted that the foreword
by Andreas Osiander was not authorized Copernicus,
and that Osiander, who oversaw the book’s printing,
included it without the author’s knowledge and
without identifying Osiander as its author.

NICHOLAS COPERNICUS
OF TORUÑ
SIX BOOKS ON
THE REVOLUTIONS OF THE ]HEAVENLY
SPHERES
Diligent reader, in this work, which has
just been created and published, you have
the motions of the fixed stars and planets,
as these motions have been reconstituted
on the basis of ancient as well as recent
observations, and have moreover been
embellished by new and marvelous hypotheses.
You also have most convenient tables, from
which you will be able to compute those
motions with the utmost case for any time
whatever. Therefore buy, read, and enjoy
[this work].

Let no one untrained in geometry enter here.
NUREMBERG

JOHANNES PETREIUS
1543
XIX

FOREWORD BY ANDREAS OSIANDER
To the Reader
Concerning the Hypotheses of this Work
There have already been widespread reports about
the novel hypotheses of this work, which declares
that the earth moves whereas the sun is at rest in the
center of the universeHence certain scholars, I have
no doubt, are deeply offended and believe that the
liberal arts, which were established long ago on a
sound basis, should not be thrown into confusion. But
if these men are willing to examine the matter
closely, they will find that the author of this work has
done nothing blameworthy. For it is the duty of an
astronomer to compose the history of the celestial
motions through careful and expert study. Then he
must conceive and devise the causes of these motions
or hypotheses about them. Since he cannot in any
way attain to the true causes, he will adopt whatever
suppositions enable the motions to be computed
correctly from the principles of geometry for the
future as well as for the past. The present author has
performed both these duties excellently. For these
hypotheses need not be true nor even probable. On
the contrary, if they provide a calculus consistent with
the observations, that alone is enough. Perhaps there
is someone who is so ignorant of geometry and optics
that he regards the epicyclc of Venus as probable, or
thinks that it is the reason why Venus sometimes
precedes and sometimes follows the sun by forty
degrees and even more. Is there anyone who is not
aware that from this assumption it necessarily follows
that the diameter of the planet at perigee should
appear more than four times, and the body of the
planet more than sixteen times, as great as at

apogee? Yet this variation is refuted by the
experience of every age. In this science there are
some other no less important absurdities, which need
not be set forth at the moment. For this art, it is
quite clear, is completely and absolutely ignorant of
the causes of the apparent nonuniform motions. And
if any causes are devised by the imagination, as
indeed very many are, they are not put forward to
convince anyone that are true, but merely to provide
a reliable basis for computation. However, since
different hypotheses are sometimes offered for one
and the same motion (for example, eccentricity and
an epicycle for the sun's motion), the astronomer will
take as his first choice that hypothesis which is the
easiest to grasp. The philosopher will perhaps rather
seek the semblance of the truth. But neither of them
will understand or state anything certain, unless it
has been divinely revealed to him.
Therefore alongside the ancient hypotheses, which
are no more probable, let us permit these new
hypotheses also to become known, especially since
they are admirable as well as simple and bring with
them a huge treasure of very skillful observations. So
far as hypotheses are concerned, let no one expect
anything certain from astronomy, which cannot
furnish it, lest he accept as the truth ideas conceived
for another purpose, and depart from this study a
greater fool than when he entered it. Farewell.
XX

LETTER OF NICHOLAS SCHÖNBERG
Nicholas Schönberg, Cardinal of Capua,
to Nicholas Copernicus, Greetings.
Some years ago word reached me concerning your
proficiency, of which everybody constantly spoke. At
that time I began to have a very high regard for you,
and also to congratulate our contemporaries among
whom you enjoyed such great prestige. For I had
learned that you had not merely mastered the
discoveries of the ancient astronomers uncommonly
well but had also formulated a new cosmology. In it
you maintain that the earth moves; that the sun
occupies the lowest, and thus the central, place in the
universe; that the eighth heaven remain perpetually
motionless and fixed; and that, together with the
elements included in its sphere, the moon, situated
between the heavens of Mars and Venus, revolves
around the sun in the period of a year. I have also
learned that you have written an exposition of this
whole system of astronomy, and have computed the
planetary motions and set them down in tables, to
the greatest admiration of all. Therefore with the
utmost earnestness I entreat you, most learned sir,
unless I inconvenience you, to communicate this
discovery of yours to scholars, and at the earliest
possible moment to send me your writings on the
sphere of the universe together with the tables and
whatever else you have that is relevant to this
subject. Moreover, I have instructed Theodoric of
Reden to have everything copied in your quarters at
my expense and dispatched to me. If you gratify my
desire in this matter, you will see that you are dealing
with a man who is zealous for your reputation and
eager to do justice to so fine a talent. Farewell.

Rome, 1 November 1536
XXI

TO HIS HOLINESS, POPE PAUL III,
NICHOLAS COPERNICUS' PREFACE
TO HIS BOOKS ON THE REVOLUTIONS
I can readily imagine, Holy Father, that as soon as
some people hear that in this volume, which I have
written about the revolutions of the spheres of the
universe, I ascribe certain motions to the terrestrial
globe, they will shout that I must be immediately
repudiated together with this belief For I am not so
enamored of my own opinions that I disregard what
others may think of them. I am aware that a
philosopher's ideas are not subject to the judgement
of ordinary persons, because it is his endeavor to
seek the truth in all things, to the extent permitted to
human reason by God. Yet I hold that completely
erroneous views should be shunned. Those who know
that the consensus of many centuries has sanctioned
the conception that the earth remains at rest in the
middle of the heaven as its center would, I reflected,
regard it as an insane pronouncement if I made the
opposite assertion that the earth moves. Therefore I
debated with myself for a long time whether to
publish the volume which I wrote to prove the earth's
motion or rather to follow the example of the
Pythagoreans and certain others, who used to
transmit philosophy's secrets only to kinsmen and
friends, not in writing but by word of mouth, as is
shown by Lysis' letter to Hipparchus. And they did so,
it seems to me, not, as some suppose, because they
were in some way jealous about their teachings,
which would be spread around; on the contrary, they
wanted the very beautiful thoughts attained by great
men of deep devotion not to be ridiculed by those

who are reluctant to exert themselves vigorously in
any literary pursuit unless it is lucrative; or if they are
stimulated to the nonacquisitive study of philosophy
by the exhortation and example of others, yet
because of their dullness of mind they play the same
part among philosophers as drones among bees.
When I weighed these considerations, the scorn which
I had reason to fear on account of the novelty and
unconventionality of my opinion almost induced me to
abandon completely the work which I had
undertaken.
But while I hesitated for a long time and even
resisted, my friends drew me back. Foremost among
them was the cardinal of Capua, Nicholas Schönberg,
renowned in every field of learning. Next to him was a
man who loves me dearly, Tiedemann Giese, bishop
of Chelmno, a close student of sacred letters as well
as of all good literature. For he repeatedly
encouraged me and, sometimes adding reproaches,
urgently requested me to publish this volume and
finally permit it to appear after being buried among
my papers and lying concealed not merely until the
ninth year but by now the fourth period of nine years.
The same conduct was recommended to me by not a
few other very eminent scholars. They exhorted me
no longer to refuse, on account of the fear which I
felt, to make my work available for the general use of
students of astronomy. Ile crazier my doctrine of the
earth's motion now appeared to most people, the
argument ran, so much the more admiration and
thanks would it gain after they saw the publication of
my writings dispel the fog of absurdity by most
luminous proofs. Influenced therefore by these
persuasive men and by this hope, in the end I allowed
my friends to bring out an edition of the volume, as

they had long besought me to do.
However, Your Holiness will perhaps not be greatly
surprised that I have dared to publish my studies
after devoting so much effort to working them out
that I did not hesitate to put down my thoughts about
the earth's motion in written fcrm too. But you are
rather waiting to hear from me how it occurred to me
to venture to conceive any motion of the earth,
against the traditional opinion of astronomers and
almost against common sense. I have accordingly no
desire to from Your Holiness that I was impelled to
consider a different system of deducing the motions
of the universe's spheres for no other reason than the
realization that astronomers do not agree among
themselves in their investigations of this subject. For,
in the first place, they are so uncertain about the
motion of the sun and moon that they cannot
establish and observe a constant length even for the
tropical year. Secondly, in determining the motions
not only of these bodies but also of the other five
planets, they do not use the same principles,
assumptions, and explanations of the apparent
revolutions and motions. For while some employ only
homocentrics, others utilize eccentrics and epicycles,
and yet they do not quite reach their goal. For
although those who put their faith in homocentrics
showed that some nonuniform motions could be
compounded in this way, nevertheless by this means
they were unable to obtain any incontrovertible result
in absolute agreement with the phenomena. On the
other hand, those who devised the eccentrics seem
thereby in large measure to have solved the problem
of the apparent motions with appropriate calculations.
But meanwhile they introduced a good many ideas
which apparently contradict the first principles of

uniform motion. Nor could they elicit or deduce from
the eccentrics the principal consideration, that is, the
structure of the universe and the true symmetry of
its parts. On the contrary, their experience was just
like some one taking from various places hands, feet,
a head, and other pieces, very well depicted, it may
be, but not for the representation of a single person;
since these fragments would not belong to one
another at all, a monster rather than a man would be
put together from them. Hence in the process of
demonstration or "method", as it is called, those who
employed eccentrics are found either to have omitted
something essential or to have admitted something
extraneous and wholly irrelevant. This would not have
happened to them, had they followed sound
principles. For if the hypotheses assumed by them
were not false, everything which follows from their
hypotheses would be confirmed beyond any doubt.
Even though what I am now saying may be obscure,
it will nevertheless become clearer in the proper
place.
For a long time, then, I reflected on this confusion in
the astronomical traditions concerning the derivation
of the motions of the universe's spheres. I began to
be annoyed that the movements of the world
machine, created for our sake by the best and most
systematic Artisan of all, were not understood with
greater certainty by the philosophers, who otherwise
examined so precisely the most insignificant trifles of
this world. For this reason I undertook the task of
rereading the works of all the philosophers which I
could obtain to learn whether anyone had ever
proposed other motions of the universe's spheres
than those expounded by the teachers of astronomy
in the schools. And in fact first I found in Cicero that

Hicetas supposed the earth to move. Later I also
discovered in Plutarch that certain others were of this
opinion. I have decided to set his words down here,
so that they may be available to everybody:
Some think that the earth remains at rest.
But Philolaus the Pythagorean believes that,
like the sun and moon, it revolves around the
fire in an oblique circle. Heraclides of Pontus,
and Ecphantus the Pythagorean make the
earth move, not in a progressive motion, but
like a wheel in a rotation from west to east
about its own center.
Therefore, having obtained the opportunity from
these sources, I too began to consider the mobility of
the earth. And even though the idea seemed absurd,
nevertheless I knew that others before me had been
granted the freedom to imagine any circles whatever
for the purpose of explaining the heavenly
phenomena. Hence I thought that I too would be
readily permitted to ascertain whether explanations
sounder than those of my predecessors could be
found for the revolution of the celestial spheres on
the assumption of some motion of the earth.
Having thus assumed the motions which I ascribe to
the earth later on in the volume, by long and intense
study I finally found that if the motions of the other
planets are correlated with the orbiting of the earth,
and are computed for the revolution of each planet,
not only do their phenomena follow therefrom but
also the order and size of all the planets and spheres,
and heaven itself is so linked together that in no
portion of it can anything be shifted without
disrupting the remaining parts and the universe as a

whole. Accordingly in the arrangement of the volume
too I have adopted the following order. In the first
book I set forth the entire distribution of the spheres
together with the motions which I attribute to the
earth, so that this book contains, as it were, the
general structure of the universe. Then in the
remaining books I correlate the motions of the other
planets and of all the spheres with the movement of
the earth so that I may thereby determine to what
extent the motions and appearances of the other
planets and spheres can be saved if they are
correlated with the earth's motions. I have no doubt
that acute and learned astronomers will agree with
me if, as this discipline especially requires, they are
willing to examine and consider, not superficially but
thoroughly, what I adduce in this volume in proof of
these matters. However, in order that the educated
and uneducated alike may see that I do not run away
from the judgement of anybody at all, I have
preferred dedicating my studies to Your Holiness
rather than to anyone else. For even in this very
remote comer of the earth where I live you are
considered the highest authority by virtue of the
loftiness of your office and your love for all literature
and astronomy too. Hence by your prestige and
judgement you can easily suppress calumnious
attacks although, as the proverb has it, there is no
remedy for a backbite.
Perhaps there will be babblers who claim to be judges
of astronomy although completely ignorant of the
subject and, badly distorting some passage of
Scripture to their purpose, will dare to find fault with
my undertaking and censure it. I disregard them even
to the extent of despising their criticism as
unfounded. For it is not unknown that Lactantius,

otherwise an illustrious writer but hardly an
astronomer, speaks quite childishly about the earth's
shape, when he mocks those who declared that the
earth has the form of a globe. Hence scholars need
not be surprised if any such persons will likewise
ridicule me. Astronomy is written for astronomers. To
them my work too will seem, unless I am mistaken,
to make some contribution also to the Church, at the
head of which Your Holiness now stands. For not so
long ago under Leo X the Lateran Council considered
the problem of reforming the ecclesiastical calendar.
The issue remained undecided then only because the
lengths of the year and month and the motions of the
sun and moon were regarded as not yet adequately
measured. From that time on, at the suggestion of
that most distinguished man, Paul, bishop of
Fossombrone, who was then in charge of this matter,
I have directed my attention to a more precise study
of these topics. But what I have accomplished in this
regard, I leave to the judgement of Your Holiness in
particular and of all other learned astronomers. And
lest I appear to Your Holiness to promise more about
the usefulness of this volume than I can fulfill, I now
turn to the work itself.

NICHOLAS COPERNICUS'
REVOLUTIONS

Book One

INTRODUCTION
Among the many various literary and artistic pursuits
which invigorate men's minds, the strongest affection
and utmost zeal should, I think, promote the studies
concerned with the most beautiful objects, most
deserving to be known. This is the nature of the
discipline which deals with the universe's divine
revolutions, the asters' motions, sizes, distances,
risings and settings, as well as the causes of the
other phenomena in the sky, and which, in short,
explains its whole appearance. What indeed is more
beautiful than heaven, which of course contains all
things of beauty? This is proclaimed by its very
names [in Latin], caelum and mundus, the latter
denoting purity and ornament, the former a carving.
On account of heaven's transcendent perfection most
philosophers have called it a visible god. If then the
value of the arts is judged by the subject matter
which they treat, that art will be by far the foremost
which is labeled astronomy by some, astrology by
others, but by many of the ancients, the
consummation of mathematics. Unquestionably the
summit of the liberal arts and most worthy of a free
man, it is supported by almost all the branches of
mathematics. Arithmetic, geometry, optics,
surveying, mechanics and whatever others there are
all contribute to it.
Although all the good arts serve to draw man's mind
away from vices and lead it toward better things, this
function can be more fully performed by this art,

which also provides extraordinary intellectual
pleasure. For when a man is occupied with things
which he sees established in the finest order and
directed by divine mana gement, will not the
unremitting contemplation of them and a certain
familiarity with them stimulate him to the best and to
admiration for the Maker of everything, in whom are
all happiness and every good? For would not the
godly Psalmist [92:4] in vain declare that he was
made glad through the work of the Lord and rejoiced
in the works of His hand s, were we not drawn to the
contemplation of the highest good by this means, as
though by a chariot?
The great benefit and adornment which this art
confers on the commonwealth (not to mention the
countless advantages to individuals) are most
excellently observed by Plato. In the Laws, Book VII,
he thinks that it should be cultivated chiefly because
by dividing time into groups of days as months and
years, it would keep the state alert and attentive to
the festivals and sacrifices. Whoever denies its
necessity for the teacher of any branch of higher
learning is thinking foolishly, according to Plato. In his
opinion it is highly unlikely that anyone lacking the
requisite knowledge of the sun, moon, and other
heavenly bodies can become and be called godlike.
However, this divine rather than human science,
which investigates the loftiest subjects, is not free
from perplexities. The main reason is that its
principles and assumptions, called "hypotheses" by
the Greeks, have been a source of disagreement, as
we see, among most of those who undertook to deal
with this subject, and so they did not rely on the
same ideas. An additional reason is that the motion of

the planets and the revolution of the stars could not
be measured with numerical precision and completely
understood except with the passage of time and the
aid of many earlier observations, through which this
knowledge was transmitted to posterity from hand to
hand, so to say. To be sure, Claudius Ptolemy of
Alexandria, who far excels the rest by his wonderful
skill and industry, brought this entire art almost to
perfection with the help of observations extending
over a period of more than four hundred years, so
that there no longer seemed to be any gap which he
had not closed. Nevertheless very many things, as we
perceive, do not agree with the conclusions which
ought to follow from his system, and besides certain
other motions have been discovered which were not
yet 2 known to him. Hence Plutarch too, in discussing
the sun's tropical year, says that so far the motion of
the heavenly bodies has eluded the skill of the
astronomers. For, to use the year itself as an
example, it is well known, I think, how different the
opinions concerning it have always been, so that
many have abandoned all hope that an exact
determination of it could be found. The situation is
the 1 same with regard to other heavenly bodies.
Nevertheless, to avoid giving the impression that this
difficulty is an excuse for indolence, by the grace of
God, without whom we can accomplish nothing, I shall
attempt a broader inquiry into these matters. For, the
number of aids we have to assist our enterprise
grows with the interval of time extending from 2 the
originators of this art to us. Their discoveries may be
compared with what I have newly found. I
acknowledge, moreover, that I shall treat many topics
differently from my predecessors, and yet I shall do
so thanks to them, for it was they who first opened

the road to the investigation of these very questions.
THE UNIVERSE IS SPHERICAL

Chapter 1

First of all, we must note that the universe is
spherical. The reason is either that, of all forms, the
sphere is the most perfect, needing no joint and
being a complete whole, which can be neither
increased nor diminished; or that it is the most
capacious of figures, best suited to enclose and retain
all things; or even that all the separate parts of the
universe, I mean the sun, moon, planets and stars,
are seen to be of this shape; or that wholes strive to
be circumscribed by this boundary, as is apparent in
drops of water and other fluid bodies when they seek
to be self-contained. Hence no one will question the
attribution of this form to the divine bodies.
THE EARTH TOO IS SPHERICAL

Chapter 2

The earth also is spherical, since it presses upon its
center from every direction. Yet it is not immediately
recognized as a perfect sphere on account of the
great height of the mountains and depth of the
valleys. They scarcely alter the general sphericity of
the earth, however, as is clear from the following
considerations. For a traveler going from any place
toward the north, that pole of the daily rotation
gradually climbs higher, while the opposite pole drops
down an equal amount. More stars in the north are
seen not to set, while in the south certain stars are
no longer seen to rise. Thus Italy does not see
Canopus, which is visible in Egypt; and Italy does see
the River's last star, which is unfamiliar to our area in
the colder region. Such stars, conversely, move
higher in the heavens for a traveller heading
southward, while those which are high in our sky sink

down. Meanwhile, moreover, the elevations of the
poles have the same ratio everywhere to the portions
of the earth that have been traversed. This happens
on no other figure than the sphere. Hence the earth
too is evidently enclosed between poles and is
therefore spherical. Furthermore, evening eclipses of
the sun and moon are not seen by easterners, nor
morning eclipses by westerners, while those occurring
in between are seen later by easterners but earlier by
westerners.
The waters press down into the same figure also, as
sailors are aware, since land which is not seen from a
ship is visible from the top of its mast. On the other
hand, if a light is attached to the top of the mast, as
the ship draws away from land, those who remain
ashore see the light drop down gradually until it
finally disappears, as though setting. Water,
furthermore, being fluid by nature, manifestly always
seeks the same lower levels as earth and pusehs up
from the shore no higher than its rise permits. Hence
whatever land emerges out of the ocean is admittedly
that much higher.
HOW EARTH FORMS A SINGLE SPHERE
WITH WATER

Chapter 3

Pouring forth its seas everywhere, then, the ocean
envelops the earth and fills its deeper chasms. Both
tend toward the same center because of their
heaviness. Accordingly there had to be less water
than land, to avoid having the water engulf the entire
earth and to have the water recede from some
portions of the land and from the many islands lying
here and there, for the preservation of living
creatures For what are the inhabited countries and

the mainland itself but an island larger than, the
others?
We should not heed certain peripatetics who declared
that the entire body of water is ten times greater
than all the land. For, according to the conjecture
which they accepted, in the transmutation of the
elements as one unit of earth dissolves, it becomes
ten units of water. They also assert that the earth
bulges out to some extent as it does because it is not
of equal weight everywhere on account of its cavities,
its center of gravity being different from its center of
magnitude. But they err through ignorance of the art
of geometry. For they do not realize that the water
cannot be even seven times greater and still leave
any part of the land dry, unless earth as a whole
vacated the center of gravity and yielded that position
to water, as if the latter were heavier than itself For,
spheres are to each other as the cubes of their
diameters. Therefore, if earth were the eighth part to
seven parts of water, earth's diameter could not be
greater than the distance from [their joint] center to
the circumference of the waters. So far are they from
being as much as ten times greater [than the land].
Moreover, there is no difference between the earth's
centers of gravity and magnitude. This can be
established by the fact that from the ocean inward
the curvature of the land does not mount steadily in a
continuous rise. If it did, it would keep the sea water
out completely and in no way permit the inland seas
and such vast gulfs to intrude. Furthermore, the
depth of the abyss would never stop increasing from
the shore of the ocean outward, so that no island or
reef or any form of land would be encountered by
sailors on the longer voyages. But it is well known

that almost in the middle of the inhabited lands barely
fifteen furlongs remain between the eastern
Mediterranean and the Red Sea. On the other hand,
in his Geography Ptolemy extended the habitable area
halfway around the world. Beyond that meridian,
where he left unknown land, the modem have added
Cathay and territory as vast as sixty degrees of
longitude, so that now the earth is inhabited over a
greater stretch of longitude than is left for the ocean.
To these regions, moreover, should be added the
islands discovered in our time under the rulers of
Spain and Portugal, and especially America, named
after the ship's captain who found it. On account of
its still undisclosed size it is thought to be a second
group of inhabited countries. There are also many
other islands, heretofore unknown. So little reason
have we to marvel at the existence of antipodes or
antichthones. Indeed, geometrical reasoning about
the location of America compels us to believe that it is
diametrically opposite the Ganges district of India.
From all these facts, finally, I think it is clear that
land and water together press upon a single center of
gravity; that the earth has no other center of
magnitude; i that, since earth is heavier, its gaps are
filled with water; and that consequently there is little
water in comparison with land, even though more
water perhaps appears on the surface.
The earth together with its surrounding waters must
in fact have such a shape as its shadow reveals, for it
eclipses the moon with the arc of a perfect circle.
Therefore the earth is not flat, as Empedocles and
Anaximenes thought; nor drum-shaped, as Leucippus;
nor bowl-shaped, as Heraclitus; nor hollow in another
way, as Democritus; nor again cylindrical, as

Ansaximander; nor does its lower side extend
infinitely downward, the thickness diminishing toward
the bottom, as Xenophanes taught; but it is perfectly
round, as the philosophers hold.
THE MOTION OF THE BEAVENLY BODIES Chapter 4
IS UNIFORM, ETERNAL, AND CIRCULAR OR
COMPOUNDED OF CIRCULAR MOTIONS
I shall now recall to mind that the motion of the
heavenly bodies is circular, since the motion
appropriate to a sphere is rotation in a circle. By this
very act the sphere expresses its form as the
simplest body, wherein neither beginning nor end can
be found, nor can the one be distinguished from the
other, while the sphere itself traverses the same
points to return upon itself.
In connection with the numerous [celestial] spheres,
however, there are many Motions. The most
conspicuous of all is the daily rotation, which the
Greeks call nuchthemeron, that is, the hiterval of a
day and a night. The entire universe, with the
exception of the earth, is conceived as whirling from
cast to west in this rotation. It is recognized as the
common measure of all motions, since we even
compute time itself chiefly by the number of days.
Secondly, we see other revolutions as advancing in
the opposite direction, that is, from west to east; I
refer to those of the sun, moon, and five planets. The
sun thus regulates the year for us, and the moon the
month, which are also very familiar Periods of time.
In like manner each of the other five planets
completes its own orbit.
Yet [these motions] differ in many ways [from the

daily rotation or first motion]. In the first place, they
do not swing around the same poles as the first
motion, but run obliquely through the zodiac.
Secondly, these bodies are not seen moving uniformly
in their orbits, since the sun and moon are observed
to be sometimes slow, at other times faster in their
course. Moreover, we see the other five planets also
retrograde at times, and stationary at either end [of
the regression]. And whereas the sun always
advances along its own direct path, they wander in
various ways, straying sometimes to the south and
sometimes to the north; that is why they are called
"planets" [wanderers]. Furthermore, they are at
times nearer to the earth, when they are said to be in
perigee; at other times they are farther away, when
they are said to be in apogee.
We must acknowledge, nevertheless, that their
motions are circular or compounded of several circles,
because these nonuniformities recur regularly
according to a constant law. This could not happen
unless the motions were circular, since only the circle
can bring back the past. Thus, for example, by a
composite motion of circles the sun restores to us the
inequality of days and nights as well as the is four
seasons of the year. Several motions are discerned
herein, because a simple heavenly body cannot be
moved by a single sphere nonuniformly. For this
nonuniformity would have to be caused either by an
inconstancy, whether imposed from without or
generated from within, in the moving force or by an
alteration in the revolving body. From either
alternative, however, the intellect shrinks. It is
improper to conceive any such defect in objects
constituted in the best order.

It stands to reason, therefore, that their uniform
motions appear nonuniform to us. The cause may be
either that their circles have poles different [from the
earth's] or that the earth is not at the center of the
circles on which they revolve. To us who watch the
course of these planets from the earth, it happens
that our eye does not keep the same distance from
every part of their orbits, but on account of their
varying distances these bodies seem larger when
nearer than when farther away (as has been proved
in optics). Likewise, in equal arcs of their orbits their
motions will appear unequal in equal times on account
of the observer's varying distance. Hence I deem it
above all necessary that we should carefully scrutinize
the relation of the earth to the heavens lest, in our
desire to examine the loftiest objects, we remain
ignorant of things nearest to us, and by the same
error attribute to the celestial bodies what belongs to
the earth.
DOES CIRCULAR MOTION SUIT THE
EARTH?
Chapter 5
WHAT IS ITS POSITION?
Now that the earth too has been shown to have the
form of a sphere, we must in my opinion see whether
also in this case the form entails the motion, and
what place in the universe is occupied by the earth.
Without the answers to these questions it is
impossible to find the correct explanation of what is
seen in the heavens. To be sure, there is general
agreement among the authorities that the earth is at
rest in the middle of the universe. They hold the
contrary view to be inconceivable or downright silly.
Nevertheless, if we examine the matter more
carefully, we shall see that this problem has not yet

been solved, and is therefore by no means to be
disregarded.
Every observed change of place is caused by a motion
of either the observed object or the observer or, of
course, by an unequal displacement of each. For
when things move with equal speed in the same
direction, the motion is not perceived, as between the
observed object and the observer, I mean It is the
earth, however, from which the celestial ballet is
beheld in its repeated performances before our eyes.
Therefore, if any motion is ascribed to the earth, in all
things outside it the same motion will appear, but in
the opposite direction, as though they were moving
past it. Such in particular is the daily rotation, since it
seems to involve the entire universe except the earth
and what is around it. However, if you grant that the
heavens have no part in this motion but that the
earth rotates from west to east, upon earnest
consideration you will find that this is the actual
situation concerning the apparent rising and setting of
the sun, moon, stars and planets. Moreover since the
heavens, which enclose and provide the setting for
everything, constitute the space common to all
things, it is not at first blush clear why motion should
not be attributed rather to the enclosed than to the
enclosing, to the thing located in space rather than to
the framework of space. This opinion was indeed
maintained by Heraclides and Ecphantus, the
Pythagoreans, and by Eficetas of Syracuse, according
to Cicero. They rotated the earth in the middle of the
universe, for they ascribed the setting of the stars to
the earth's interposition, and their rising to its
withdrawal.
If we assume its daily rotation, another and no less

important question follows concerning the earth's
position. To be sure, heretofore there has been
virtually unanimous acceptance of the belief that the
middle of the universe is the earth. Anyone who
denies that the earth occupies the middle or center of
the universe may nevertheless assert that its distance
(therefrom] is insignificant in comparison with [the
distance of] the sphere of the fixed stars, but
perceptible and noteworthy in relation to the spheres
of the sun and the other planets. He may deem this
to be the reason why their motions appear
nonuniform, as conforming to a center other than the
center of the earth. Perhaps he can [thereby]
produce a not inept explanation of the apparent
nonuniform motion. For the fact that the same
planets are observed nearer to the earth and farther
away necessarily proves that the center of the earth
is not the center of their circles. It is less clear
whether the approach and withdrawal are executed
by the earth or the planets.
It Will occasion no surprise if, in addition to the daily
rotation, some other motion is assigned to the earth.
That the earth rotates, that it also travels with
several motions, and that it is one of the heavenly
bodies are said to have been the opnions of Philolaus
the Pythagorean. He was no ordinary astronomer,
inasmuch as Plato did not delay going to Italy for the
sake of visiting him, as Plato's biographers report.
But many have thought it possible to prove by
geometrical reasoning that the earth is in. the middle
of the universe; that being like a point in relation to
the immense heavens, it serves as their center; and
that it is motionless because, when the universe
moves, the center remains unmoved, and the things

newest to the center are carried most slowly.
THE IMMENSITY OF THE HEAVENS
Chapter 6
COMPARED TO THE SIZE OF THE EARTH
The massive bulk of the earth does
indeed shrink to insignificance in
comparison with the size of the
heavens. This can be ascertained
from the fact that the boundary
circles (for that is the translation of
the Greek term horizons) bisect the
entire sphere of the heavens. This
could not happen if the earth's size or distance from
the universe's center were noteworthy in comparison
with the heavens. For, a circle that bisects a sphere
passes through its center, and is the greatest circle
that can be described on it.
Thus, let circle ABCD be a horizon, and let the earth,
from which we do our observing, be E, the center of
the horizon, which separates what is seen from what
is not seen. Now, through a dioptra or horoscopic
instrument or water level placed at E, let the first
point of the Crab be sighted rising at point C, and at
that instant the first point of the Goat is perceived to
be setting at A. Then A, E, and C are on a straight
line through the dioptra. This line is evidently a
diameter of the ecliptic, since six visible signs form a
semicircle, and E, the [line's] center, is identical with
the horizon's center. Again, let the signs shift their
position until the first point of the Goat rises at B. At
that time the Crab win also be observed setting at D.
BED will be a straight line and a diameter of the
ecliptic. But, as we have already seen, ABC also is a
diameter of the same circle. Its center, obviously, is

the intersection [of the diameters]. A horizon, then, in
this way always bisects the ecliptic, which is a great
circle of the sphere. But on a sphere, if a circle
bisects any great circle, the bisecting circle is itself a
great circle. Consequently a horizon is one of the
great circles, and its center is clearly identical with
the center of the ecliptic.
Yet a line drawn from the earth's surface [to a point
in the firmament] must be distinct from the line
drawn from the earth's center [to the same point].
Nevertheless, because these lines are immense in
relation to the earth, they become like parallel lines
[III, 15]. Because their terminus is enormously
remote they appear to be a single line. For in
comparison with their length the space enclosed by
them becomes imperceptible, as is demonstrated in
optics. This reasoning certainly makes it quite clear
that the heavens are immense by comparison with
the earth and present the aspect of an infinite
magnitude, while on the testimony of the senses the
earth is related to the heavens as a point to a body,
and a finite to an infinite magnitude.
But no other conclusion seems to have been
established. For it does not follow that the earth must
be at rest in the middle of the universe. Indeed, a
rotation in twenty-four hours of the enormously vast
universe should astonish us even more than a
rotation of its least part, which is the earth. For, the
argument a that the center is motionless, and what is
nearest the center moves the least, does not prove
that the earth is at rest in the middle of the universe.
To take a similar case, suppose you say that the
heavens rotate but the poles are stationary, and what

is closest to the poles-moves the least. The Little
Bear, for example, being very close to the pole, is
observed to move much more slowly than the Eagle
or the Little Dog because it describes a smaller circle.
Yet all these constellations belong to a single sphere.
A sphere's movement, vanishing at its axis, does not
permit an equal motion of all its parts. Nevertheless
these are brought
round in equal times, though not over equal spaces,
by the rotation of the whole sphere. The upshot of
the argument, then, is the claim that the earth as a
part of the celestial sphere shares in the same nature
and movement so that, being close to the center, it
has a slight motion. Therefore, being a body and not
the center, it too will describe arcs like those of a
celestial circle, though smaller, in the same time. The
falsity of this contention is clearer than daylight. For it
would always have to be noon in one place, and
always midnight in another, so that the daily risings
and settings could not take place, since the motion of
the whole and the part would be one and inseparable.
But things separated by the diversity of their
situations are subject to a very different relation:
those enclosed in a smaller orbit revolve faster than
those traversing a bigger circle. Thus Saturn, the
highest of the planets, revolves in thirty years; the
moon, undoubtedly the nearest to the earth,
completes its course in a month; and to close the
series, it will be thought, the earth rotates in the
period of a day and a night. Accordingly the same
question about the daily rotation emerges again. On
the other hand, likewise still undetermined is the
earth's position, which has been made even less
certain by what was said above. For that proof

establishes no conclusion other than the heavens'
unlimited size in relation to the earth. Yet how far this
immensity extends is not at all clear. At the opposite
extreme are the very tiny indivisible bodies called
"atoms". Being imperceptible, they do not
immediately constitute a visible body when they are
taken two or a few at a time. But they can be
multiplied to such an extent that in the end there are
enough of them to combine in a perceptible
magnitude. The same may be said also about the
position of the earth. Although it is not in the center
of the universe, nevertheless its distance therefrom is
still insignificant, especially in relation to the sphere of
the fixed stars.
WHY THE ANCIENTS THOUGHT THAT
Chapter 7
THE EARTH REMAINED AT REST IN
THE MIDDLE OF THE UNIVERSE AS ITS CENTER
Accordingly, the ancient philosophers sought to
establish that the earth remains at rest in the middle
of the universe by certain other arguments. As their
main reason, however, they adduce heaviness and
lightness. Earth is in fact the heaviest element, and
everything that has weight is borne toward it in an
effort to reach its inmost center. The earth being
spherical, by their own nature heavy objects are
carried to it from all directions at right angles to its
surface. Hence, if they were not checked at its
surface, they would collide at its center, since a
straight line perpendicular to a horizontal plane at its
point of tangency with a sphere leads to the
[sphere's] center. But things brought to the middle, it
seem to follow, come to rest at the middle. All the
more, then, will the entire earth be at rest in the
middle, and as the recipient of every falling body it

will remain motionless thanks to its weight.
In like manner, the ancient philosophers analyze
motion and its nature in a further attempt to confirm
their conclusion. Thus, according to Aristotle, the
motion of a single simple body is simple; of the simple
motions, one is straight and the other is circular; of
the straight motions, one is upward and the other is
downward. Hence every simple motion is either
toward the middle, that is, downward; or away from
the middle, that is, upward; or around the middle,
that is, circular. To be carried downward, that is, to
seek the middle, is a property only of earth and
water, which are considered heavy; on the other
hand, air and fire, which are endowed with lightness,
move upward and away from the middle. To these
four elements it seems reasonable to assign
rectilinear motion, but to the heavenly bodies, circular
motion around the middle. This is what Aristotle says
[Heavens, I, 2; II, 14].
Therefore, remarks Ptolemy of Alexandria [Syntaxis,
1, 7], if the earth were to move, merely in a daily
rotation, the opposite of what was said above would
have to occur, since a motion would have to be
exceedingly violent and its speed unsurpassablc to
carry the entire circumference of the earth around in
twenty-four hours. But things which undergo an
abrupt rotation seem utterly unsuited to gather
[bodies to themselves], and seem more likely, if they
have been produced by combination, to fly apart
unless they are held together by some bond. The
earth would long ago have burst asunder, he says,
and dropped out of the skies (a quite preposterous
notion); and, what is more, living creatures and any
other loose weights would by no means remain

unshaken. Nor would objects falling in a straight line
descend perpendicularly to their appointed place,
which would meantime have been withdrawn by so
rapid a movement. Moreover, clouds and anything
else floating in the air would be seen drifting always
westward.
THE INADEQUACY OF THE PREVIOUS Chapter 8
ARGUMENTS AND A REFUTATION OF TIMM
For these and similar reasons forsooth the ancients
insist that the earth remains at rest in the middle of
the universe, and that this is its status beyond any
doubt. Yet if anyone believes that the earth rotates,
surely he will hold that its motion is natural, not
violent. But what is in accordance with nature
produces effects contrary to those resulting from
violence, since things to which force or violence is
applied must disintegrate and cannot long endure. On
the other hand, that which is brought into existence
by nature is well-ordered and preserved in its best
state. Ptolemy has no cause, then, to fear that the
earth and everything earthly will be disrupted by a
rotation created through natures handiwork, which is
quite different from what art or human intelligence
can accomplish.
But why does he not feel this apprehension even
more for the universe, whose motion must be the
swifter, the bigger the heavens are than the earth?
Or have the heavens become immense because the
indescribable violence of their motion drives them
away from the center? Would they also fall apart if
they came to a halt? Were this reasoning sound,
surely the size of the heavens would likewise grow to
infinity. For the higher they are driven by the power

of their motion, the faster that motion will be, since
the circumference of which it must make the circuit in
the period of twenty-four hours is constantly
expanding; and, in turn, as the velocity of the motion
mounts, the vastness of the heavens is enlarged. In
this way the speed will increase the size, and the size
the speed, to infinity. Yet according to the fimiliar ear
axiom of physics that the infinite cannot be traversed
5 or moved in any way, the heavens will therefore
necessarily remain stationary.
But beyond the heavens there is said to be no body,
no space, no void, abso- lutely nothing, so that there
is nowhere the heavens can go. In that case it is
really astonishing if something can be held in check
by nothing. If the heavens are infinite, however, and
finite at their inner concavity only, there will perhaps
be more reason to believe that beyond the heavens
there is nothing. For, every single thing, no matter
what size it attains, will be inside them, but the
heavens will abide motionless. For, the chief
contention by which it is sought to prove that the
universe is finite is its motion. Let us therefore leave
the question whether the universe is finite or infinite
to be discussed by the natural philosophers.
We regard it as a certainty that the earth, enclosed
between poles, is bounded by a spherical surface.
Why then do we still hesitate to grant it the motion
appropriate by nature to its form rather than
attribute a movement to the entire universe, whose
limit is unknown and unknowable? Why should we not
admit, with regard to the daily rotation, that the
appearance is in the heavens and the reality in the
earth? This situation closely resembles what Vergil's
Aeneas says:

Forth from the harbor we sail, and the land and the
cities slip backward [Aeneid, III, 72].
For when a ship is floating calmly along, the sailors
see its motion mirrored in everything outside, while
on the other hand they suppose that they are
stationary, together with everything on board. In the
same way, the motion of the earth can
unquestionably produce the impression that The
entire universe is rotating.
Then what about the clouds and the other things that
hang in the air in any manner whatsoever, or the
bodies that fall down, and conversely those that rise
aloft? We would only say that not merely the earth
and the watery element joined with it have this
motion, but also no small part of the air and whatever
is Raked in the same way to the earth. Ile reason
may be either that the nearby air, mingling with
earthy or watery matter, conforms to the same
nature as the earth, or that the air's motion, acquired
from the earth by proximity, shares without
resistance in its unceasing rotation. No less
astonishingly, on the other hand, is the celestial
movement declared to be accompanied by the
uppermost belt of air. This is indicated by those
bodies that appear suddenly, I mean, those that the
Greeks called "comets" and "bearded stars". Like the
other heavenly bodies, they rise and set. They are
thought to be generated in that region. That part of
the air, we can maintain, is unaffected by the earth's
motion on account of its great distance from the
earth. The air closest to the earth will accordingly
seem to be still. And so will the things suspended in
it, unless they are tossed to and fro, as indeed they
are, by the wind or some other disturbance. For what

else is the wind in the air but the wave in the sea?
We must in fact avow that the motion of falling and
rising bodies in the framework of the universe is
twofold, being in every case a compound of straight
and circular. For, things that sink of their own weight,
being predominantly earthy, undoubtedly retain the
same nature as the whole of which they are parts.
Nor is the explanation different in the case of those
things, which, being fiery, are driven forcibly upward.
For also fire here on the earth feeds mainly on earthy
matter, and flame is defined as nothing but blazing
smoke. Now it is a property of fire to expand what it
enters. It does this with such great force that it
cannot be prevented in any way by any device from
bursting through restraints and completing its work.
But the motion of expansion is directed from the
center to the circumference. Therefore, if any part of
the earth is set afire, it is carried from the middle
upwards. Hence the statement that the motion of a
simple body is simple holds true in particular for
circular motion, as long as the simple body abides in
its natural place and with its whole. For when it is in
place, it has none but circular motion, which remains
wholly within itself like a body at rest. Rectilinear
motion, however, affects things which leave their
natural place or arc thrust out of it or quit it in any
manner whatsoever. Yet nothing is so incompatible
with the orderly arrangement of the universe and the
design of the totality as something out of place.
Therefore rectilinear motion occurs only to things that
are not in proper condition and are not in complete
accord with their nature, when they are separated
from their whole and forsake its unity.
Furthermore, bodies that are carried upward and

downward, even when deprived of circular motion, do
not execute a simple, constant, and uniform motion.
For they cannot be governed by their lightness or by
the impetus of their weight. Whatever falls moves
slowly at first but increases its speed as it drops. On
the other hand, we see this earthly fire (for we
behold no other), after it has been lifted up high,
slacken all at once, thereby revealing the reason to
be the violence applied to the earthy matter. Circular
motion, however, always rolls along uniformly, since it
has an unfailing cause. But rectilinear motion has a
cause that quickly stops functioning. For when
rectilinear motion brings bodies to their own place,
they cease to be heavy or light, and their motion
ends. Hence, since circular motion belongs to wholes,
but parts have rectilinear motion in addition, we can
say that "circular" subsists with "rectilinear" as "being
alive" with "being sick". Surely Aristotle's division of
simple motion into three types, away from the
middle, toward the middle, and around the middle,
will be construed merely as a logical exercise. In like
manner we distinguish line, point, and surface, even
though one cannot exist without another, and none of
them without body.
As a quality, moreover, immobility is deemed nobler
and more divine than change and instability, which
are therefore better suited to the earth than to the
universe. Besides, it would seem quite absurd to
attribute motion to the framework of space or that
which encloses the whole of space, and not, more
appropriately, to that which is enclosed and occupies
some space, namely, the earth. Last of all, the
planets obviously approach closer to the earth and
recede farther from it. Then the motion of a single
body around the middle, which is thought to be the

center of the earth, will be both away from the middle
and also toward it. Motion around the middle,
consequently, must be interpreted in a more general
way, the sufficient condition being that each such
motion encircle its own center. You see, then, that all
these arguments make it more likely that the earth
moves than that it is at rest. This is especially true of
the daily rotation, as particularly appropriate to the
earth. This is enough, in my opinion, about the first
part of the question.
CAN SEVERAL MOTIONS BE ATTRIBUTED
Chapter
9
TO THE EARTH? THE CENTER OF THE UNIVERSE
Accordingly, since nothing prevents the earth from
moving, I suggest that we should now consider also
whether several motions suit it, so that it can be
regarded as one of the planets. For, it is not the
center of all the revolutions. This is indicated by the
planets, apparent nonuniform motion and their
varying distances from the earth. These phenomena
cannot be explained by circles concentric with the
earth. Therefore, since there are many centers, it will
not be by accident that the further question arises
whether the center of the universe is identical with
the center of terrestrial gravity or with some other
point. For my part I believe that gravity is nothing
but a certain natural desire, which the divine
providence of the Creator of all things has implanted
in parts, to gather as a unity and a whole by
combining in the form of a globe. This impulse is
present, we may suppose, also in the sun, the moon,
and the other brilliant planets, so that through its
operation they remain in that spherical shape which
they display. Nevertheless, they swing round their

circuits in divers ways. If, then, the earth too moves
in other ways, for example, about a center, its
additional motions must likewise be reflected in many
bodies outside it. Among these motions we find the
yearly revolution. For if this is transformed from a
solar to a terrestrial movement, with the sun
acknowledged to be at rest, the risings and settings
which bring the zodiacal signs and fixed stars into
view morning and evening will appear in the same
way. The stations of the planets, moreover, as well as
their retrogradations and [resumptions of] forward
motion will be recognized as being, not movements of
the planets, but a motion of the earth, which the
planets borrow for their own appearances. Lastly, it
will be realized that the sun occupies the middle of
the universe. All these facts are disclosed to us by the
principle governing the order in which the planets
follow one another, and by the harmony of the entire
universe, if only we look at the matter, as the saying
goes, with both eyes.
THE ORDER OF THE HEAVENLY SPHERES
10

Chapter

Of all things visible, the highest is the heaven of the
fixed stars. This, I see, is doubted by nobody. But the
ancient philosophers wanted to arrange the planets in
accordance with the duration of the revolutions. Their
principle assumes that of objects moving equally fast,
those farther away seem to travel more slowly, as is
proved in Euclid's Optics. The moon revolves in the
shortest period of time because, in their opinion, it
runs on the smallest circle as the nearest to the
earth. The highest planet, on the other hand, is
Saturn, which completes the biggest circuit in the
longest time. Below it is Jupiter, followed by Mars.

With regard to Venus and Mercury, however,
differences of opinion are found. For, these planets do
not pass through every elongation from the sun, as
the other planets do. Hence Venus and Mercury are
located above the sun by some authorities, like Plato's
Timaeus [38 D], but below the sun by others, like
Ptolemy [Syntaxis, IX, 1] and many of the modems.
Al-Bitruji places Venus above the sun, and Mercury
below it.
According to Platos followers, all the planets, being
dark bodies otherwise, shine because they receive
sunlight. If they were below the sun, therefore, they
would undergo no great elongation from it, and hence
they would be seen halved or at any rate less than
fully round. For, the light which they receive would be
reflected mostly upward, that is, toward the sun, as
we see in the new or dying moon. In addition, they
argue, the sun must sometimes be eclipsed by the
interposition of these planets, and its light cut off in
proportion to their size. Since this is never observed,
these planets do not pass beneath the sun at all,
according to those who follow Plato.
On the other hand, those who locate Venus and
Mercury below the sun base their reasoning on the
wide space which they notice between the sun and
the moon. For the moon's greatest distance from the
earth is 64 1/6 earth-radii. This is contained, according
to them, about 18 times in the sun's least distance
from the earth, which is 1160 earth-radii. Therefore
between the sun and the moon there are 1096
earth-radii [~ 1160-641/6]. Consequently, to avoid
having so vast a space remain empty, they announce
that the same numbers almost exactly fill up the
apsidal distances, by which they compute the

thickness of those spheres. Thus the moon's apogee
is followed by Mercury's perigee. Mercurys apogee is
succeeded by the perigee of Venus, whose apogee,
finally, almost reaches the sun's perigee. For between
the apsides of Mercury they calculate about 177 1/2
earthradii. Then the remaining space is very nearly
filled by Venus' interval of 910 earth-radii.
Therefore they do not admit that these heavenly
bodies have any opacity like the moon's. On the
contrary, these shine either with their own light or
with the sunlight absorbed throughout their bodies.
Moreover, they do not eclipse the sun, because it
rarely happens that they interfere with our view of
the sun, since they generally deviate in latitude.
Besides, they are tiny bodies in comparison with the
sun. Venus, although bigger than Mercury, can occult
barely a hundredth of the sun. So says Al-Battani of
Raqqa, who thinks that the sun's diameter is ten
times larger [than Venus'], and therefore so minute a
speck is not easily descried in the most brilliant light.
Yet in his Paraphrase of Ptolemy, Ibn Rushd reports
having seen something blackish when he found a
conjunction of the sun and Mercury indicated in the
tables. And thus these two planets are judged to be
moving below the sun's sphere.
But this reasoning also is weak and unreliable. This is
obvious from the fact that there are 38 earth-radii to
the moon's perigee, according to Ptolemy [Syntaxis,
V, 13], but more than 49 according to a more
accurate determination, as will be made clear below.
Yet so great a space contains, as we know, nothing
but air and, if you please, also what is called "the
element of fire". Moreover, the diameter of Venus'
epicycle which carries it 45° more or less to either

side of the sun, must be six times longer than the line
drawn from the earth's center to Venus' perigee, as
will be demonstrated in the proper place [V, 21]. In
this entire space which would be taken up by that
huge epicycle of Venus and which, moreover, is so
much bigger than what would accommodate the
earth, air, aether, moon, and Mercury, what will they
say is contained if Venus revolved around a
motionless earth?
Ptolemy [Syntaxis, IX, 1] argues also that the sun
must move in the middle between the planets which
show every elongation from it and those which do
not. This argument carries no conviction because its
error is revealed by the fact that the moon too shows
every elongation from the sun.
Now there are those who locate Venus and then
Mercury below the sun, or Separate these planets
[from the sun] in some other sequence. What reason
will they adduce to explain why Venus and Mercury do
not likewise traverse separate orbits divergent from
the sun, like the other planets, without violating the
arrangement [of the planets] in accordance with their
[relative] swiftness and slowness? Then one of two
alternatives will have to be true. Either the earth is
not the center to which the order of the planets and
spheres is referred, or there really is no principle of
arrangement nor any apparent reason why the
highest place belongs to Saturn rather than to Jupiter
or any other planet.
In my judgement, therefore, we should not in the
least disregard what was 5 familiar to Martianus
Capella, the author of an encyclopedia, and to certain
other Latin writers. For according to them, Venus and

Mercury revolve around the sun as their center. This
is the reason, in their opinion, why these planets
diverge no farther from the sun than is permitted by
the curvature of their revolutions. For they do not
encircle the earth, like the other planets, but "have
opposite circles". Then what else do these authors
mean but that the center of their spheres is near the
sun? Thus Mercury's sphere will surely be enclosed
within Venus', which by common consent is more than
twice as big, and inside that wide region it will occupy
a space adequate for itself. If anyone seizes this
opportunity to link Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars also to
that center, provided he understands their spheres to
be so large that together with Venus and Mercury the
earth too is enclosed inside and encircled, he will not
be mistaken, as is shown by the regular pattern of
their motions.
For [these outer planets] are always closest to the
earth, as is well known, about the time of their
evening rising, that is, when they are in opposition to
the 2 sun, with the earth between them and the sun.
On the other hand, they are at their farthest from the
earth at the time of their evening setting, when they
become invisible in the vicinity of the sun, namely,
when we have the sun between them and the earth.
These facts are enough to show that their center
belongs more to the sun, and is identical with the
center around which Venus and Mercury likewise
execute their revolutions.
But since all these planets are related to a single
center, the space between Venus' convex sphere and
Mars' concave sphere must be set apart as also a
sphere or spherical shell, both of whose surfaces are
concentric with those spheres. This [intercalated

sphere] receives the earth together with its
attendant, 3 the moon, and whatever is contained
within the moon's sphere. Mainly for the reason that
in this space we find quite an appropriate and
adequate place for the moon, we can by no means
detach it from the earth, since it is incontrovertibly
nearest to the earth.
Hence I feel no shame in asserting that this whole
region engirdled by the moon, and the center of the
earth, traverse this grand circle amid the rest of the
planets in an annual revolution around the sun. Near
the sun is the center of the universe. Moreover, since
the sun remains stationary, whatever appears as a
motion of the sun is really due rather to the motion of
the earth. In comparison with any other spheres of
the planets, the distance from the earth to the sun
has a magnitude which is quite appreciable in
proportion to those dimensions. But the size of the
universe is so great that the distance earth-sun is
imperceptible in relation to the sphere of the fixed
stars. This should be admitted, I believe, in
preference to perplexing the mind with an almost
infinite multitude of spheres, as must be done by
those who kept the earth in the middle of the
universe. On the contrary, we should rather heed the
wisdom of nature. Just as it especially avoids
producing anything superfluous or useless, so it
frequently prefers to endow a single thing with many
effects.

All these statements are difficult and almost
inconceivable, being of course opposed to the beliefs
of many people. Yet, as we proceed, with God's help I
shall make them clearer than sunlight, at any rate to
those who arc not unacquainted with the science of
astronomy. Consequently, with the first principle
remaining intact, for nobody will propound a more
suitable principle than that the size of the spheres is
measured by the length of the time, the order of the
spheres is the following, beginning with the highest.
The first and the highest of all is the sphere of the
fixed stars, which contains itself and everything, and
is therefore immovable. It is unquestionably the place
of the universe, to which the motion and position of
all the other heavenly bodies are compared. Some
people think that it also shifts in some way. A

different explanation of why this appears to be so will
be adduced in my discussion of the earth's motion [I,
11].
[The sphere of the fixed stars] is followed by the first
of the planets, Saturn, which completes its circuit in
30 years. After Saturn, Jupiter accomplishes its
revolution in 12 years. Then Mars revolves in 2 years.
The annual revolution takes the series' fourth place,
which contains the earth, as I said [earlier in I, 10],
together with the lunar sphere as an epicycle. In the
fifth place Venus returns in 9 months. Lastly, the
sixth place is held by Mercury, which revolves in a
period of 80 days.
At rest, however, in the middle of everything is the
sun. For in this most beautiful temple, who would
place this lamp in another or better position than that
from which it can light up the whole thing at the same
time? For, the sun is not inappropriately called by
some people the lantern of the universe, its mind by
others, and its ruler by still others. [Hermes] the
Thrice Greatest labels it a visible god, and Sophocles'
Electra, the all-seeing. Thus indeed, as though seated
on a royal throne, the sun governs the family of
planets revolving around it. Moreover, the earth is not
deprived of the moon's attendance. On the contrary,
as Aristotle says in a work on animal , the moon has
the closest kinship with the earth. Meanwhile the
earth has intercourse with the sun, and is
impregnated for its yearly parturition.
In this arrangement, therefore, we discover a
marvelous symmetry of the universe, and an
established harmonious linkage between the motion
of the spheres and their size, such as can be found in

no other way. For this permits a not inattentive
student to perceive why the forward and backward
arcs appear greater in Jupiter than in Saturn and
smaller than in Mars, and on the other hand greater
in Venus than in Mercury. This reversal in direction
appears more frequently in Saturn than in Jupiter,
and also more rarely in Mars and Venus than in
Mercury. Moreover, when Saturn, Jupiter, and Mars
rise at sunset, they are nearer to the earth than
when they set in the evening or appear at a later
hour. But Mars in particular, when it shines all night,
seems to equal Jupiter in size, being distinguished
only by its reddish color. Yet in the other
configurations it is found barely among the stars of
the second magnitude, being recognized by those
who track it with assiduous observations. All these
phenomena proceed from the same cause, which is in
the earth's motion.
Yet none of these phenomena appears in the fixed
stars. This proves their immense height, which makes
even the sphere of the annual motion, or its
reflection, vanish from before our eyes. For, every
visible object has some measure of distance beyond
which it is no longer seen, as is demonstrated in
optics. From Saturn, the highest of the planets, to the
sphere of the fixed stars there is an additional gap of
the largest size. This is shown by the twinkling lights
of the stars. By this token in particular they are
distinguished from the planets, for there had to be a
very great difference between what moves and what
does not move. So vast, without any question, is the
divine handiwork of the most excellent Almighty.
PROOF OF THE EARTH'S TRIPLE MOTION
11

Chapter

In so many and such important ways, then, do the
planets bear witness to the earth's mobility. I shall
now give a summary of this motion, insofar as the
phenomena are explained by it as a principle. As a
whole, it must be admitted to be a threefold motion.
The first motion, named nuchthemeron by the
Greeks, as I said [I, 4], is the rotation which is the
characteristic of a day plus a night. This turns around
the earth's aids from west to east, just as the
universe is deemed to be carried in the opposite
direction. It describes the equator, which some people
call the "circle of equal days", in imitation of the
designation used by the Greeks, whose term for it is
isemerinos.
The second is the yearly motion of the center, which
traces the ecliptic around the sun. Its direction is
likewise from west to east, that is, in the order of the
zodiacal signs. It travels between Venus and Mars, as
I mentioned [I, 10], together with its associates.
Because of it, the sun seems to move through the
zodiac in a similar motion. Thus, for example, when
the earth's center is passing through the Goat, the
sun appears to be traversing the Crab; with the earth
in the Water Bearer, the sun seems to be in the Lion,
and so on, as I remarked.
To this circle, which goes through the middle of the
signs, and to its plane, the equator and the earth's
axis must be understood to have a variable
inclination. For if they stayed at a constant angle, and
were affected exclusively by the motion of the center,
no inequality of days and nights would be observed.
On the contrary, it would always be either the longest
or shortest day or the day of equal daylight and

darkness, or summer or winter, or whatever the
character of the season, it would remain identical and
unchanged.
The third motion in inclination is consequently
required. This also is a yearly revolution, but it occurs
in the reverse order of the signs, that is, in the
direction opposite to that of the motion of the center.
These two motions are opposite in direction and
nearly equal in period. The result is that the earth's
axis and equator, the largest of the parallels of
latitude on it, face almost the same portion of the
heavens, just as if they remained motionless.
Meanwhile the sun seems to move through the
obliquity of the ecliptic with the motion of the earth's
center, as though this were the center of the
universe. Only remember that, in relation to the
sphere of the fixed stars, the distance between the
sun and the earth vanishes from our sight forthwith.
Since these are matters which crave to be set before
our eyes rather than spoken of, let us describe a
circle ABCD, which the annual revolution of the
earth's center has traced in the plane of the ecliptic.
Near its center let the sun be E. I shall divide this
circle into four parts by drawing the diameters AEC
and BED. Let A represent the first point of the Crab,
B of the Balance, C of the Goat, and D of the Ram.
Now let us assume that the earth's center is originally
at A. About A I shall draw the terrestrial equator
FGHI. This is not in the same plane [as the ecliptic],
except that the diameter GAI is the intersection of the
circles, I mean, of the equator and the ecliptic. Draw
also the diameter FAH perpendicular to GAI, F being
the limit of the [equator's] greatest inclination to the
south, and H to the north. Under the conditions thus

set forth, the earth's inhabitants will see the sun near
the center E undergo the winter solstice in the Goat.
This occurs because the greatest northward
inclination, H, is turned toward the sun. For, the
inclination of the equator to the line AE, through the
agency of the daily rotation, traces the winter solstice
parallel to the equator at an interval subtended by
EAH, the angle of the obliquity.
Now let the earth's center start out in the order of
the signs, and let F, the limit of maximum inclination,
travel along an equal arc in the reverse order of the
signs, until at B both have traversed a quadrant of
their circles. In the interim the angle EAI always
remain equal to AEB, on account of the equality of
their revolutions; and the diameters always stay
parallel to each other, FAH to FBH, and GAI to GBI,
and the equator to the equator. In the immensity of
the heavens, for the reason already frequently
mentioned, the same phenomena appear. Terefore
from B, the first point of the Balance, E will seem to
be in the Ram. The intersection of the circles will
coincide with the single line GBIE, from which [the
plane of the axis] win not be permitted by the daily
rotation to deviate. On the contrary, the [axis']
inclination will lie entirely in the lateral plane.
Accordingly the sun will be seen in the spring
equinox. Let the earth's center proceed under the
assumed conditions, and when it has completed a
semicircle at C, the sun will appear to enter the Crab.
But F, the southernmost inclination of the equator,
will be turned toward the sun. This will be made to
appear in the north, undergoing the summer solstice
as measured by the angle of the obliquity, ECR Again,
when F turns away in the third quadrant of the circle,
the intersection GI will once more fall on the line ED.

From here the sun will be seen in the Balance
undergoing the autumn equinox. Then as H by the
same process gradually faces the sun, it will bring
about a repetition of the initial situation, with which I
began my survey

Alternatively, let AEC be in the same way a diameter
of the plane under discussion [the ecliptic] as well as
the intersection of that plane with a circle
perpendicular thereto. On AEC, around A and C, that
is, in the Crab and the Goat, draw a circle of the
earth in each case through the poles. Let this
[meridian] be DGFI, the earth's axis DF, the north
pole D, the south pole F, and GI the diameter of the
equator. Now when F is turned toward the sun, which
is near E, the equator's northward inclination being
measured by the angle IAE, then the axial rotation
will describe, parallel to the equator and to the south
of it, at a distance LI and with diameter KL, the tropic
of Capricorn as seen in the sun. Or, to speak more
accurately, the axial rotation, as viewed from AE,
generates a conic surface, having its vertex in the

center of the earth, and its base in a circle parallel to
the equator. Also at the opposite point, C, everything
works out in like manner, but is reversed. It is clear
therefore how the two motions, I mean, the motion of
the center and the motion in inclination, by their
combined effect make the earth's axis remain in the
same direction and in very much the same position,
and make all these phenomena appear as though
they were motions of the sun.

I said, however, that the annual revolutions of the
center and of inclination are nearly equal. For if they
were exactly equal, the equinoctial and solstitial
points as well as the entire obliquity of the ecliptic
would have to show no shift at all with reference to
the sphere of the fixed stars. But since there is a
slight variation, it was discovered only as it grew
larger with the passage of time. From Ptolemy to us
the precession of the equinoxes amounts to almost
21°. For this reason some people believed that the
sphere of the fixed stars also moves, and accordingly
they adopted a surmounting ninth sphere. This having
proved inadequate, more recent writers now add on a
tenth sphere. Yet they do not in the least attain their
goal, which I hope to reach by the earth's motion.
This I shall use as a principle and hypothesis in the
demonstration of the other [motions].
[Here Copernicus originally planned to include a little

time than two handwritten pages which he later
deleted from his autograph. This deleted material,
which was not printed in the first four editions of the
Revolutions (1543, 1566, 1617, 1854), but was
incorporated in those published after the recovery of
Copernicus' autograph (1873, 1949, 1972), reads as
follows].
The motion of the sun and moon can be demonstrated, I admit, also with
an earth that is stationary. This is, however, lea suitable for the
remaining planets . Philolaus believed in the earth's motion for these
and similar reasons. This is plausible because Aristarchus of Samos too
held the same view according to some people, who were not motivated
by the argumentation put forward by Aristotle and rejected by him
[Heavens, II, 13-14). But only a keen mind and persevering study could
understand then subjects. They were therefore unfamiliar to most
philosophers at that time, and Plato does not conceal the fact that there
were then only a few who mastered the theory of the heavenly motions.
Even if these were known to Philolaus or any Pythagorean, they
nevertheless were probably not transmitted to posterity. For it was the
Pythagoreans' practice not to commit the secrets of philosophy to writing
nor divulge them to everybody, but to entrust them only to faithful
friends and kinsmen, and pass them on from hand to hand As evidence
of this custom there is extant a letter from Lysis to Hipparchus. Because
of its remarkable opinions and in order to make clear what value was
attached to philosophy among themselves, I have decided to insert it
here and to end this first Book with it. This, then, is a copy of the letter,
which I translate from Greek as follows.
From Lysis to Hipparchus, greetings.
I would never have believed that after Pythagoras' death his followers'
brotherhood would be dissolved. But now that we have unexpectedly
been scattered hither and yon, as if our ship had been wrecked, it is still
an act of piety to recall his godlike teachings and refrain from
communicating the treasures of Philosophy to those who have not even
dreamed about the purification of the soul. For it is indecent to divulge
to everybody what we achieved with such great effort, just as the
Eleusinian goddesses' secrets may not be revealed to the uninitiated.
The perpetrators of either of these misdeeds would be condemned as
equally wicked and impious. On the other hand, it is worth considering
how much tune we spent wiping out the stains which clung to our hearts
until we became receptive to his teachings after the course of five years.
Dyers, having cleaned their fabrics, then apply their tincture with a

mordant in order to fix the color indissolubly and prevent it from fading
away casily thereafter. That godlike man prepared the lovers of
philosophy in the same way, to avoid being disappointed in the hope he
had conceived for the talents of any one of them. He did not sell his
precepts for a price, and the snares with which young minds are
entangled by many of the sophists were not set out by him because they
are devoid of value. On the contrary, divine and human doctrines were
promulgated by him.
Certain imitators of his teaching, however, perform at great length and
out loud. Their instruction of the young follows a confused and improper
procedure, thereby making their auditors impertinent and brash. For
they mix disorderly and tainted morals with philosophy's lofty precepts.
The result is like pouring pure fresh water into a deep well full of muck,
since the muck is stirred up and the water is wasted. This is what
happens to those who teach and are taught in this manner. For thick,
dark woods obstruct the minds and hearts of those who were not
correctly initiated, and completely damage the gentleness of their spirit
and their reasonableness. These woods are infested with all sorts of
vices, which by flourishing impede thought and prevent it from
developing in any way.
As breeders of the interlopers I shall name principally self-indulgence
and greed, both of which are extremely fertile. For, self-indulgence gives
rise to incest, drunkenness, rape, unnatural pleasures, and certain
violent impulses which lead as far as death and destruction. In fact,
passion has inflamed some of these persons to so high a pitch that they
spared neither their mothers nor their daughters. It has even carried
them into conflict with their laws, country, government, and rulers. It
has laid snares such that it brought them bound hand and foot to the
final punishment. Greed, on the other hand, generates mayhem,
murder, temple-robbery, poisoning, and other offspring of that sort. The
lairs in those woods, where these urges lurk, must therefore be
extirpated by fire and sword with all our might. When we have found the
natural reason freed from these lusts, we shall then implant in it a most
excellent and fruitful crop.
You too, Hipparchus, learned these rules with no small zeal. But, my
good man, little did you heed them after you had tasted Sicilian luxury,
for the sake of which you should have abandoned nothing. Many people
even say that you are teaching philosophy publicly. This practice was
forbidden by Pythagoras, who willed his notes to his daughter Damo with
an order not to turn them over to anybody outside the family. Although
she could have sold them for a lot of money, she refused to do so,
considering poverty and her father's commands more precious than gold.
They also say that when Damo, died, she left the same obligation to her
own daughter Bitale. Yet we of the male sex disobey our teacher and

violate our oath. If, then, you mend your ways, I cherish you. But if you
do not, as far as I am concerned, you are dead.
[The foregoing letter, the true nature of which was not suspected by
Copernicus, ended Book I as originally planned. According to that plan,
Book II began immediately after the letter with some introductory
material, which was subsequently deleted. This deleted material, which
was not printed in the first four editions of the Revolutions, but was
included in those published after the recovery of Copernicus' autograph,
reads as follows].
For what I have undertaken to do, those propositions of natural
philosophy which seemed indispensable as principles and hypotheses,
namely, that the universe is spherical, 1 3 and similar to the infinite,
and that the sphere of the fixed stars as the container of everything is
stationary, whereas all the other heavenly bodies have a circular motion,
have been briefly reviewed. I have also assumed that the earth moves in
certain revolutions, on which, as the cornerstone, I strive to erect the
entire science of the stars.
[The rest of the material deleted here in the autograph was printed in
the first four editions of the Revolutions as the following beginning of 1,
12].

The proofs which I shall use in almost the entire work
involve straight lines and arcs in plane and spherical
triangles. Although much information about these
topics is already available in Euclid's Elements,
nevertheless that treatise does not contain the
answer to what is the principal question here, how
the sides can be obtained from the angles, and the
angles from the sides.
[As the heading of 1, 12, the first edition introduced "The Length of
Straight Lines in a Circle". This caption, for which there is no direct
warrant in the autograph, was repeated in the next three editions of the
Revolutions.

HOW MUCH ARE THE ORBITS OF SATURN,
3
JUPITER, AND MARS INCLINED?

Chapter

Having explained the theory of the latitudes of the
five planets, I must now turn to the facts and analyze
the details. First [I must determine] how much the
individual circles are inclined. We compute these
inclinations by means of the great circle which passes
through the poles of the inclined circle at right angles
to the ecliptic. On this great circle the deviations in
latitude are determined. When these arrangements
are understood, the road will be open to ascertaining
the latitudes of each planet.
Once more let us begin with the three outer planets.
At their farthest southern limits of latitude, as shown
in Ptolemy's Table [Syntaxis, XIII, 5], when they are
in opposition, Saturn deviates 3° 5', Jupiter 2° 7' and
Mars 7° 7'. On the other hand, in the opposite places,
that is, when they are in conjunction with the sun,
Saturn deviates 2° 2', Jupiter 1° 5', and Mars only 5',
so that it almost grazes the ecliptic. These values
could be inferred from the latitudes observed by
Ptolemy around the time of the planets'
disappearances and first visibilities.
Now that the above assertions have
been set forth, let a plane
perpendicular to the ecliptic pass
through its center and intersect the
ecliptic in AB. But let its intersection
with the eccentric of any of the
three outer planets be CD, passing
through the farthest southern and
northern limits. Let the ecliptic's

center be E; the diameter of the
earth's grand circle, FEG; the
southern latitude, D; and the
northern, C. Join CF, CG, DF, and
DG.
[Earlier version:
Now as an example I shall use Mars because it exceeds all the other
planets in latitude. Thus, when it is in opposition at point D, with the
earth at G (corrected from F], angle AFG was known = 7° 7'. But 0 is
given as Mars' position at apogee. From the previously established sizes
of the circle, CE = 1° 22'20", with FG [a slip for FE] = 1°. In triangle
CEF, the ratio of the sides GE and EF is given, as well as angle CFE.
Hence we shall also have as given CEF = the greatest angle of the
eccentric's inclination = 5° 11', according to the doctrine of plane
triangles. However, when the earth is in the opposite place, that is, at G
(should have been corrected to F], while the Planet is still at C, CGF =
the angle of the apparent latitude = 4'].

[Printed version:
For each planet the ratio of EG, (the radius] of the
earth's grand circle, to ED, [the radius] of the planet's
eccentric, has already been shown above for any
given places of earth and planet. But the places of
the maximum latitudes are also given by observation.
Therefore BGD, the angle of the greatest southern
latitude, is given as an exterior angle of triangle EGD.
In accordance with the theorems on Plane Triangles,
the opposite interior angle GED will also be given as
the angle of the eccentric's maximum southern
inclination to the plane of the ecliptic. By means of
the minimum southern latitude we shall likewise
demonstrate the mm inclination, for example, by
mean of angle EFD. In triangle EFD, the ratio of sides
EF : ED is given as well as angle EFD. Therefore we
shall, have exterior GED given as the angle of the
minimum southern inclination. Accordingly, from the

difference between both inclinations we shall obtain
the whole oscillation of the eccentric in relation to the
ecliptic. Furthermore, by means of these angles of
inclination we shall compute the opposite northern
latitudes, such as AFC and EGC. If these agree with
the observations, they Will indicate that we have
made no error.
However, as an example I shall use Mars, because it
exceeds all the other planets in latitude. Its maximum
southern latitude was noted by Ptolemy as about 7°
when Mars was at perigee, and its maximum northern
latitude at apogee as 4° 20' [Syntaxis, XIII, 5].
However, having determined angle BGD = 6° 50', I
found the corresponding angle AFC ~ 4° 30'. Given
EG : ED = 1p : 1p 22' 26" [V, 19], from these sides
and angle BGD we shall obtain angle DEG of the
maximum Southern inclination ~ 1° 51'. Since EF : CE
= 19 : 1° 39' 57" [V, 19] and angle CEF = DEG = 1°
51', consequently the aforementioned exterior CFA =
4 1/2° when the planet is in opposition.
Similarly , at the opposite place when it is in
conjunction with the sun, suppose that we assume
angle DFE = 5'. From the given sides DE and EF
together with angle EFD, we shall obtain angle EDF,
and exterior angle DEG of the inclination ~ 9'. This
will furnish us also with angle CGE of the northern
latitude ~ 6'. Hence, if we subtract the minimum
inclination from the maximum, that is, 1° 51'-9', the
remainder ~ 1° 41'. This is the oscillation of this
inclination, and 1/2 [of the oscillation] ~ 50 1/2'.
In like manner the angles of
inclination of the other two planets,
Jupiter and Saturn, were determined

together with their latitudes. Thus,
Jupiter's maximum inclination = 1°
42'; its minimum inclination = 1°
18'; hence, its entire oscillation
comprises not more than 24'. On the
other hand, Saturn's maximum
inclnation = 2° 44'; its minimum
inclination = 2° 16'; the intervening
oscillation = 28'. Hence, through the
smallest angles of inclination, which occur in the
opposite place, when the planets are in conjunction
with the sun, their deviations in latitude from the
ecliptic will emerge as 2° 3' for Saturn and 1° 6' for
Jupiter. These values had to be determined and
retained for the construction of the Tables below
[after VI, 8].
GENERAL EXPLANATION OF ANY OTHER
LATITUDES OF THESE THREE PLANETS

Chapter 4

From what has been expounded above, the particular
latitudes of these three planets will likewise be clear
in general. As before, conceive the intersection AB of
the plane perpendicular to the ecliptic and passing
through the limits of their farthest deviations, with
the northern limit at A. Also let straight line CD be the
intersection of the planet's orbit [with the ecliptic],
and let CD intersect AB in point D. With D as cemer,
describe EF as the earth's grand circle. From E, where
the earth is allgued with the planet in opposition, take
any known arc EF. From F and from Q, the place of
the planet, drop CA and FG perpendicular to AB. Join
FA and FC.
In this situation we first seek the size of ADC, the
angle of the eccentric's inclination. It has been shown

[VI, 3] to be at its maximum when the earth is in
point E. Its entire oscillation, moreover, as is required
by the oscillation's nature, was revealed to be
commensurate with the earth's revolution on circle
EF, as determined by diameter BE. Therefore,
because arc EF is given, ratio ED : EG will be given,
and this is the ratio of the entire oscillation to that
which was just detached from angle ADC Hence in the
present situation angle ADC is given.
Consequently, in triangle ADC, the angles being
given, all its sides are given. But ratio CD : ED is
given by the foregoing. Also given, therefore, is [the
ratio of CD] to DG, the remainder [when EG is
subtracted from ED]. Consequently the ratios of both
CD and AD to GD are known. Accordingly, AG, the
remainder [when GD is subtracted from AD], is also
given. From this information FG is likewise given,
since it is half of the chord subtending twice EF.
Therefore, in right triangle AGF, two sides [AG and
FG] being given, hypotenuse AF is given, and so is
ratio AF: AG. Thus, finally, in right triangle ACF, two
sides [AF and AC] being given, angle AFC will be
given, and this is the angle of the apparent latitude,
which was sought.
Again I shall exemplify this analysis with Mars. Let its
maximum limit of southern latitude, which occurs
near its lower apse, be in the vicinity of A. How ever,
let the place of the planet be C where ADC, the angle
of the inclination, was shown [VI, 3] to be at its
maximum, namely, 1° 50', when the earth was at
point E. Now let us put the earth at point F, and the
motion in parallax, along arc EF = 450. Therefore,
straight line FG is given = 7071p whereof ED =
10,000 p, and GE, the remainder (when GD = FG =

7071p is subtracted] from the radius [= ED =
10,000p] = 2929p. But half of ADC, the angle of the
oscillation, has been shown = 0° 50 1/2' [VI, 3]. In
this situation its ratio of increase and decrease = DE :
GE = 50° 1/2' : 15'. When we subtract this latter
quantity from 1° 50', the remainder = 1° 35' = ADC,
the angle of the inclination in the present situation.
Therefore, the angles and sides of triangle ADC will
be given. CD was shown above to be = 9040p
whereof ED = 6580p [V, 19]. Hence, in those same
units FG = 4653p; AD =9036p; AEG, the remainder
[when GD = FG = 4653P is subtracted from AD
9036p] = 4383p, and AC = 249 1/2p. Therefore, in
right triangle AFG, perpendicular AG = 4383p, and
base FG = 4653p; hence, hypotenuse AF = 6392p.
Thus, finally, triangle ACF has CAF as a right angle,
together with given sides AC and AF [= 2491/2p,
6392p]. Hence, angle AFC is given = 2° 15' = the
apparent latitude when the earth is situated at F. We
shall pursue the analysis in the same way for the
other two planets, Saturn and Jupiter.
THE LATITUDES OF VENUS-AND MERCURY
5

Chapter

Venus and Mercury remain. Their deviations in
latitude, as I said [VI, 1], win be demonstrated jointly
by three interrelated latitudinal excursions. In order
to be able to separate these from one another, I shall
begin with the one called the "declination", since it is
simpler to treat. It is the only one which sometimes
happens to be separated from the others. This
[separation occurs] near the middle longitudes and
near the nodes when, as reckoned by the corrected
motions in longitude, the earth is located a quadrant's
distance from the planet's apogee and perigee. When

the earth is near the planet, [the ancients] found 6°
22' of southern or northern latitude in Venus, and 4°
5' in Mercury; but with the earth at its greatest
distance [from the planet], 1° 2' in Venus, and 1°
45'in Mercury [Ptolemy, Syntaxis, XIII, 5]. Under
these circumstances the planets' angles of inclination
are made known through the established tables of
corrections [after VI, 8]. Therein, when Venus is at its
greatest distance from the earth with its latitude = 1°
2, and at its least distance [from the earth with its
latitude =] 6° 22', an arc of approximately 2 1/2° of
orbital [inclination] fits both cases. When Mercury is
most remote (from the earth], its latitude = 1° 45',
and when it is closest [to the earth, its latitude =] 4°
5' require an arc of 6 1/4° [as the inclination] of its
orbit. Hence, the orbits' angles of inclination = 2° 30'
for Venus, but for Mercury 6 1/4°, with 360° = 4
right angles. Under these circumstances each of their
particular latitudes in declination can be explained, as
I shall presently demonstrate, and first for Venus.
Let the ecliptic be the plane of reference. Let a plane
perpendicular to it and passing through its center
intersect it in ABC. Let (the ecliptic's] intersection
with Venus, orbital plane be DBE. Let the earth's
center be A; the center of the a planet's orbit, B; and
the angle of the orbit's inclination to the ecliptic, ABE.
With B as center, describe orbit DFEG. Draw diameter
FBG perpendicular to diameter DE. Let the orbit's
plane be conceived to be so related to the assumed
perpendicular plane that lines drawn therein
perpendicular to DE are parallel to one another and to
the plane of the ecliptic, in which FBG is the only
[such perpendicular].
From the given straight lines AB and

BC, together with ABE, the given
angle of inclination, it is proposed to
find how much the planet deviates in
latitude. Thus, for example, let the
planet be at a distance of 45° away
from E, the point nearest to the
earth. Following Ptolemy [Syntaxis,
XIII, 4], I have chosen this point in
order that it may be clear whether
the inclination of the orbit produces
any variation in the longitude of
Venus or Mercury. For, such variations would have to
be seen at their maximum about halfway between the
cardinal points D, F, E, and G. The principal reason
therefor is that when the planet is located at these
four cardinal points, it experiences the same
longitudes as it would have without any declination,
as is self-evident.
Therefore, let us take arc EH = 45° as was said. Drop
HK perpendicular to BE. Draw KL and HM
perpendicular to the ecliptic as the plane of reference.
Join HB, LM, AM, and AH. We shall have LKHM as a
parallelogram with 4 right angles, since HK is parallel
to the plane of the ecliptic [KL and HM having been
drawn perpendicular to the ecliptic]. The side [LM of
the parallelogram] is enclosed by LAM, the angle of
the longitudinal prosthaphaeresis. But angle HAM
embraces the deviation in latitude, since HM also falls
perpendicularly on the same plane of the ecliptic.
Angle HBE is given = 45'. Therefore, HK = half the
chord subtending twice HE = 7071p whereof EB =
10,000p.
Similarly, in triangle BKL, angle KBL is given = 2° 1/2'
[VI, 5, above], ELK is a right angle, and hypotenuse

BK= 7071p whereof BE = 10,000p. In the same units,
the remaining sides KL = 308p and BL = 7064p. But,
as was shown above [V, 21], AB : BE ~10,000p :
7193p. In the same units, therefore, the remaining
sides HK = 5086p; HM = KL = 221P; and BL = 5081p.
Hence LA, the remainder (when BL = 5081p is
subtracted from AB = 10,000p] = 4919p. Now once
more, in triangle ALM, sides AL and LM = HK are
given [= 4919p, 5086p], and ALM is a right angle.
Hence we shall have hypotenuse AM = 7075p, and
angle MAL = 45° 57' = Venus' prosthaphaeresis or
great parallax, as computed.
Similarly, in triangle [MAH], side AM is given = 7075p,
and side MH = KL [= 221p]. Hence, angle MAH is
obtained = 1° 47' = the latitudinal declination. But if
it is not boring to consider what variation in longitude
is produced by this declination of Venus, let us take
triangle ALH, understanding LH to be a diagonal of
parallelogram LKHM = 5091p where of AL = 4919p.
ALH is a right angle. From this information
hypotenuse AH is obtained = 7079p. Hence, the ratio
of the sides being given, angle HAL = 45° 59'. But
MAL was shown = 45° 57'. Therefore, the excess is
only 2'. Q. E. D.
Again, in like manner I shall demonstrate the latitudes
of declination in Mercury by a construction similar to
the foregoing. Therein assume arc EH = 45° so that
each of the straight lines HK and KB is taken, as
before, = 7071p whereof hypotenuse HB = 10,000p.
In this situation, as can be inferred from the
differences in longitude as shown above [V, 27],
radius BH = 3953p and AB = 9964 p. In such units,
BK and KH will both be = 2795p. ABE, the angle of
inclination, was shown [VI, 5, above] = 6° 15', with

360° = 4 right angles. Hence, in right triangle BKL
the angles are given. Accordingly, in the same units
base KL = 304p, and the perpendicular BL = 2778p.
Therefore, AL, the remainder (when BL = 2778p is
subtracted from AB = 9964p) = 7186p. But LM = HK
= 2795p. Hence, in triangle ALM, L is a right angle,
and two sides, AL and LM, are given [= 7186p,
2795p]. Consequently, we shall have hypotenuse AM
= 7710p, and angle LAM = 21° 16' = the computed
prosthaphaeresis.
Similarly, in triangle AMH, two sides are given: AM [=
7710p], and MH = KL [= 304p], forming right angle
M. Hence, angle MAH is obtained = 2° 16' = the
latitude we were seeking. It may be asked how much
[of the latitude] is owing to the true and apparent
prosthaphaeresis. Take LH, the diagonal of the
parallelogram. From the sides we obtain it = 2811p,
and AL = 7186p. These show angle LAH = 21° 23' =
the apparent prosthaphaeresis. This exceeds the
previous calculation [of angle LAM = 21° 16'] by
about 7'. Q. E. D.
VENUS' AND MERCURYS SECOND Chapter 6
LATITUDINAL DIGRESSION, DEPENDING
ON TBE INCLINATION OF TBEIR
ORBITS AT APOGEE AND PERIGEE
The foregoing remarks concerned that latitudinal
digression of these planets which occurs near the
middle longitudes of their orbits. These latitudes, as I
said [VI, 1], are called the "declinations". Now I must
discuss the latitudes which happen near the perigees
and apogees. With these latitudes is mingled the
deviation or third [latitudinal] digression. Such a
deviation does not occur in the three outer planets,

but [in Venus and Mercury] it can more easily be
distinguished and separated out in thought, as
follows.
Ptolemy observed [Syntaxis, XIII, 4] that these
(perigeal and apogeal] latitudes appeared at their
maximum when the planets were on the straight lines
drawn from the center of the earth tangent to their
orbits. This happens, as I said [V, 21, 27], when the
planets are at their greatest distances from the sun in
the morning and evening. Ptolemy also found
[Syntaxis, XIII, 3] that Venus' northem latitudes were
1/3° greater than the southern, but Mercury's
southern latitudes were about 11/2° greater than the
northern. However, out of a desire to take into
account the difficulty and labor of the computations,
he accepted 21/2° as a sort of average quantity for
the varying values of the latitude, mainly because he
believed that no perceptible error would thereby
arise, as I too shall soon show [VI, 7]. These degrees
are subtended by the latitudes on the circle around
the earth and at right angles to the ecliptic, the circle
on which the latitudes are measured. If we now take
21/2° as the equal digression to either side of the
ecliptic and for the time being exclude the deviation,
our demonstrations will be simpler and easier until we
have ascertained the latitudes of the obliquations.
Then we must first show that this latitude's digression
reaches its near the eccentric's point of tangency,
where the longitudinal prosthaphaereses are also at
their peak. Let the planes of the ecliptic and the
eccentric, whether Venus' or Mercury's, intersect [in a
line] through the [planet's] apogee and perigee. On
the intersection take A as the place of the earth, and
B as the center of the eccentric circle CDEFG, which is

inclined to the ecliptic. Hence, [in the eccentric] any
straight lines drawn perpendicular to CG form angles
equal to the inclination [of the eccentric to the
ecliptic]. Draw AR tangent to the eccentric, and AFD
as any secant. From points D, E, and F, furthermore,
drop DH, EK, and FL Perpendicular to CQ; and also
DM, EN, and FO perpendicular to the horizontal plane
of the ecliptic. Join MH, NK, and OL, as well as AN and
AOM. For, AOM is a straight line, since three of its
points are in two planes, namely, the plane of the
ecliptic, and the plane ADM perpendicular to the plane
of the ecliptic. For the assumed inclination, then,
angles HAM and KAN enclose the longitudinal
prosthaphaereses of these planets, whereas their
digressions in latitude are embraced by angles DAM
and EAN.
I say, first, that the greatest of all
the latitudinal angles is EAN, which is
formed at the point of tangency,
where the longitudinal
prosthaphaeresis also is nearly at its
maximum. For, angle EAK is the
greatest of all [the longitudinal
angles]. Therefore RE: EA > HD : DA
and LF : FA. But EK : EN = RD : DM
= LF : FO, since the angles
subtended (by the second members
of these ratios) are equal, as I said.
Moreover, M, N, and O are right
angles. Consequently, NE : EA > AW
: DA and OF : FA. Once more, DMA,
ENA, and FOA are light angles. Therefore, angle EAN
is greater than DAM and all the [other] angles which
are formed in tins way.

Of the difference in longitudinal prosthaphaeresis
caused by this obliquation, consequently, clearly the
maximum is also that which occurs at the greatest
elongation near point B. For on account of the
equality of the angles subtended [in the similar
triangles], HD : HM = KE : KY = LF : LO. The same
ratio holds good for their differences [HD - HM, KE KN, LF - LO]. Consequently, the difference EK-KN has
a greater ratio to EA than the remaining differences
have to sides like AD. Hence it is also clear that the
ratio of the greatest longitudinal 25 Prosthaphaeresis
to the maximum latitudinal digression will be the
same as the ratio of the longitudinal
prosthaphaereses of segments of the eccentric to the
latitudinal digressions. For, the ratio of KE to EN is
equal to the ratio of all the sides like LF and RD to the
sides like FO and DM. Q. E. D.
THE SIZE OF THE OBLIQUATION ANGLES Chapter 7
OF BOTH PLANETS, VENUS AND MERCURY
Having made the foregoing preliminary remarks, let
us see how great an angle is contained in the
inclination of the planes of both these planets. Let us
recall what was said above [VI, 5], that each of the
planets, when [midway] between its greatest and
least distances [from the sun], becomes farther north
or south at the most by 5° in opposite directions
depending on its position in its orbit. For, at the
eccentric's apogee and perigee Venus' digression
makes a deviation imperceptibly greater or smaller
than 5° from which Mercury departs by more or less.
As before, let ABC be the intersection of the ecliptic
and the eccentric. Around B as center, describe the
planet's orbit inclined to the plane of the ecliptic in

the Manner explained [Previously]. From the center of
the earth draw straight line AD tangent to the
[planets] orbit at point D. From D drop
perpendiculars, DF on CBE, and DG on the horizontal
plane of the ecliptic. Join BD, FG, and AG. Also
assume that in the caw of both planets angle DAG,
comprising half of the aforementioned ditference in
latitude, = 21/2°, with 4 right angles = 360°. Let it be
proposed to find, for both planets, the size of the
angle of inclination of the planes, that is, angle DFG.
In the case of the planet Venus, in
units whereof the orbit's radius =
7193p, the planet's greatest distance
[from the earth], which occurs at the
apogee, has been shown = 10,208p,
and its least distance, at perigee, =
9792p [V, 21-22 : 10,000±208]. The
mean between these values =
10,000p, which I have adopted for
the purposes of this demonstration.
Ptolemy wanted to take laboriousness
into account and, as far as possible,
seek out short cuts [Syntaxis, XIII, 3,
end]. For where the extreme values
did not produce a manifest difference, it was better to
accept the mean value.
Accordingly, AB : BD = 10,000p : 7193p, and ADB is a
right angle. Then we shall have side AD = 6947p in
length. Similarly, BA : AD = BD : DF, and we shall
have DF = 4997p in length. Again, angle DAG is
assumed = 2 1/2° and AGD is a right angle. In
triangle [ADG, then], the angles being given, side DG
= 303p whereof AD = 6947p. Thus also (in triangle
DFG] with two sides, DF and DG, being given [=

4997,303], and DGF a right angle, DFG, the angle of
inclination or obliquation, = 3° 29'. The excess of
angle DAF over FAG comprises the difference in
longitudinal parallax. Then the difference must be
derived from the known sizes [of those angles].
It has already been shown that in units whereof DG =
303p, hypotenuse AD = 6947p, and DF = 4997p, and
also that (AD)2- (DG)2= (AG)2, and (FD)2-(DG)2 =
(GF)2. Then as a length AG is given = 6940p, and FG
= 4988p. In units whereof AG = 10,000p, FG = 7187p,
and angle FAG = 45° 57'. In whereof AD = 10,000p,
DF = 7193p, and angle DAF~ 46°. In the greatest
obliquation, therefore, the parallactic
prosthaphaeresis is diminished by about 3' [= 46° 45° 57']. At the middle apse, however, clearly the
angle of the inclination between the circles was 2 1/2°.
Here, however, it has increased [to 3° 29'] by nearly
a whole degree, which was added by that first
libratory motion which I mentioned.
For Mercury the demonstration proceeds in the same
way. In units whereof the orbit's radius 3573p, the
orbit's greatest distance from the earth = 10,948p; its
least distance 9052p; and between these values the
mean = 10,000p [V, 27]. AB : BD = 10,000p : 3573p.
Then (in triangle ABD] we shall have the third side AD
= 9340p. AB : AD = BD : DF. Therefore DF = 3337p
in length. DAG = the angle of the latitude, is assumed
= 2 1/2°. Hence DG = 407p whereof DF = 3337p. Thus
in triangle DFG, with the ratio of these two sides
being given, and with G a right angle, we shall have
angle DFG ~ 7°. This is the angle at which Mercury's
orbit is inclined or oblique to the plane of the ecliptic.
Near the middle longitudes at a quadrant's [distance
from apogee and perigee], however, the angle of

inclination was shown = 6° 15' [VI, 5]. Therefore, 45'
[=7'- 6° 15'] have now been added by the motion of
the first libration.
Similarly, for the purpose of ascertaining the angles
of prosthaphaeresis and their difference, it may be
noticed that straight line DG has be= shown = 407p
whereof AD = 9340p and DF = 3337p. (AD)2-(DG)2 =
(AG)2, and (DF)2 - (DG)2 = (FG)2. Then we shall
have as a length AG = 9331p, and FG = 3314p. From
this information is obtained GAF = the angle of the
prosthaphaeresis = 20° 48', whereas DAF = 20° 56',
than which GAF, which depends on the obliquation, is
about 8' smaller.
It still remains for us to see whether
these angles of obliquation and the
latitudes connected with the orbit's
maximum and minimum distance
[from the earth] are found to
conform with those obtained by
observation. For this purpose in the
same diagram again assume, in the
first place, for the greatest distance
of Venus' orbit [from the earth] that
AB : BD = 10,208p : 7193p. Since
ADB is a right angle, as a length AD
= 7238p in the same units. AB : AD =
BD : DF. Then in those units DF =
5102p in length. But DFG = the angle of the obliquity,
was found = 3° 29' [earlier in VI, 7]. The remaining
side DG = 309p whereof AD = 7238p. Then, in units
whereof AD = 10,000p, DG = 427p. Hence, angle DAG
is inferred = 2° 27' at the [planet's] greatest distance
from the earth. However, in units whereof BD = the
orbit's radius = 7193p, AB = 9792p [= 10,000-208] at

the [planet's] least [distance from the earth]. AD,
perpendicular to BD, = 6644p. AB : AD = BD : DF.
Similarly, as a length DF is given = 4883p in those
units. But angle DFG has been put = 3° 29'.
Therefore, DG is given = 297p whereof AD = 6644p.
Consequently in triangle [ADG], the sides being given,
angle DAG is given= 2° 34'. However, neither 3' nor
4' [2° 30' = 3'+2° 27' = 2° 34'-4'] are large enough
to be registered instrumentally with the aid of
astrolabes. Hence, what was regarded as the
maximum latitudinal digression in the planet Venus
stands up well.
In like manner assume that the greatest distance of
Mercury's orbit [from the earth is to the radius of
Mercury's orbit], that is, AB : BD = 101948p :3573p
[V, 27]. Thus, by demonstrations like the foregoing,
we obtain AD = 9452p, and DF = 3085p. But here
again we have DFG, the angle of the inclination
[between Mercury's orbit and the plane of the ecliptic]
known = 7° and for that reason straight line DG =
376p whereof DF = 3085p or DA = 9452p. Hence in
right triangle DAG, whose sides are given, we shall
have angle DAG ~ 2° 17' = the greatest digression in
latitude.
At the [orbits] least distance [from the earth],
however, AB : BD is put = 9052p :3573p. Hence, in
those units AD = 8317p, and DF = 3283p. However,
on account of the same inclination [ = 7°] DF : DG is
put = 3283p : 400p whereof AD = 8317p. Hence,
angle DAG = 2°45'.
The latitudinal digression associated with the mean
value [of the distance of Mercury's orbit from the
earth) is here too assumed = 2 1/2°. From this

quantity the latitudinal digression at apogee, where it
reaches its minimum, differs by 13' [=2° 30'- 2° 17'].
At perigee, however, where the latitudinal digression
attains its maximum, it differs (from the mean value]
by 15' [= 2°45'-2° 30']. Instead of these [apogeal
and perigeal differences], in computations based on
the mean value, above it and below it I shall use
1/4°, which does not differ perceptibly from the
observations.
As a result of the foregoing demonstrations, and also
because the greatest longitudinal prosthaphaereses
have the same ratio to the greatest latitudinal
digression as the partial prosthaphaereses in the
remaining portions of the orbit have to the several
latitudinal digressions, we shall obtain all the
latitudinal quantities occurring on account of the
inclination of the orbits of Venus and Mercury. But
only the latitudes midway between apogee and
perigee, as I said [VI, 5], are available. It has been
shown that of these latitudes the maximum 21/2° [VI,
6], while Venus' greatest prosthaphaeresis = 46°, and
Mercury's ~ 22° [VI, 5 : 45° 57', 21° 16']. And now
in the tables of their nonuniform motions [after V, 33]
we have the prosthaphacreses alongside the
individual portions of the orbits. To the extent that
each of the prosthaphacreses is smaller than the
maximum, I shall take the corresponding part of
those 2 1/2° for each planet. I shall record that part
numerically in the Table which is to be set out below
[after VI, 8]. In this way we shall have in detail every
individual latitude of obliquation which occurs when
the earth is at the higher and lower apsides of these
planets. In like manner I have recorded the latitudes
of their declinations [when the earth is] at a
quadrant's distance (midway between the planets'

apogee and perigee], and Me planets are] at their
middle longitudes. What occurs between these four
critical points [higher, lower, and both middle
apsides] can be derived by the subtlety of the
mathematical art from the proposed system of circles,
not without labor, however. Yet Ptolemy was
everywhere as compact as possible. He recognized
[Syntaxis, XIII, 4, end] that by themselves both of
these kinds of latitude [declination, obliquation] as a
whole and in all their parts increased and decreased
pro portionally like the moon's latitude. He therefore
multiplied each of their parts by twelve, since their
maximum latitude = 5° = 1/12 x 60°. He made these
[products] into proportional minutes, which he
thought should be used not only in these two planets
but also in the three outer planets, as will be
explained below [VI, 9].
Copyright 1999, MATC
Last updated 1 September 1999

